ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e3940	Ladies and gentlemen! I can warmly welcome you all and open the 61. Meeting of the National Council. The official protocols of the 58. Meeting of 5. ==References====External links== Meeting of 6. In May 2004, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. In view of the Stenographical Protocol, which was requested by me at the end of the last part-session within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure, I shall grant Mr Magistrate. Werner Kogler in accordance with § 103 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure for the Expressions “Lying” and “Smooth Lie”, addressed to the address of the Federal Chancellor, a call for order. Mrs Csörgits has been reported as an obstacle to today's meeting. Representation of members of the Federal Government President Dr. Heinz Fischer: For today's meeting on the resolution of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government, the Federal Chancellor's Office announced that Ms. Foreign Minister Dr. Benita Ferrero-Waldner was represented by the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e3998	We are arriving at the current hour, and I ask colleagues Dr. Khol to take over the presidency.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e4013	I would like to thank Mr Fischer for his presidency. In fact, we arrive at the current hour on the subject: “Neoliberalism or Social Europe?” First of all, Mr Oellinger, has spoken. His speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e4043	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! In 1994, I was one of the many Greens who voted against accession to the European Union at the time. At that time, like many others, I voted against it because, as a greener, I felt that the then Federal Government – that was another federal government – It's a bad deal. And that turned out to be the right thing to do if we just think about the transit contract. But I was also, like many others at the time, against this because I thought Europe could and should not only exist as an economic community. We wanted to give a clear and clear sign that Europe is more and more than just an economic community, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have then come to know that accession to the European Union, which a majority of Austrians have welcomed, has also brought many positive changes for Austria. Yeah, that's it. However, we also had to experience that the debate on the Stability Pact, which was intended as a preparation for the European Union, was once again off the table in which all considerations of making Europe more than an economic and fiscal community were discussed. We had to, and we are now – in 2004 – we were very pleased to welcome new members of this European Community – to note that this enlargement of the European Union was poorly prepared by Europe, the EU and also by Austria, because there was no comprehensive assistance for enlargement countries, because no one in the European Union or within this Federal Government was worried about how we could grow together without a "Marshall Plan" for these enlargement countries. The willingness of Europe and Austria to help the enlargement countries economically, socially and politically and to make Europe a social union remains to an insufficient degree. The Stability Pact – think back a little bit! – is an important instrument of this European Union. What characterises this Stability Pact? – There are hard, binding contracts, there are no or only difficult ones, and sanctions, measurable successes or failure. [[Unrest in the hall.]] We, ladies and gentlemen, would have wished that what is true of the Stability Pact should also apply to social Europe to the same extent. Where are the harsh and binding criteria and sanctions when it comes to creating full employment in Europe? Where are you, ladies and gentlemen? – Nothing is visible from it! In the area of social and employment policy in Europe, there is nothing but non-binding words that keep the focus in Sunday's speeches on the social union, but during the week hard work is being done on the Stability Pact, thus forgetting social Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e4098	Ladies and gentlemen! I ask you to keep the general sound level lower! The first pleasure is, I believe, expressed – and now I ask the speaker to pay more attention!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e4113	56 million people in Europe are at risk of poverty. 20 million are unemployed. Of course, this number has increased due to enlargement; we once had 10 million unemployed, and that was already 10 million too many. Now there are 20 million unemployed in Europe. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: 18 million!]] – 18 million, says the Minister of Economic Affairs, but 18 million are too many. Where, ladies and gentlemen, are the binding measures? Where is the Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour? Where does the European Commission work? Where does the European Council, apart from word reports, seek to achieve the highest possible employment in Europe? This is a formulation that you are also trying to define in the Constitutional Treaty for Europe. The aim is to establish binding criteria, binding policies and verifiable objectives so that full employment is achieved in Europe as possible. Nowhere can be seen that you are striving for this goal. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Federal Minister! Instead, the Commission, as well as your ministry, is working on it – I believe it is clear what it is all about – to extend the scope of daily and weekly working hours. It is obvious that there is still too little work for the gentlemen in the Commission and for the Federal Government in this country. But that is not our problem, ladies and gentlemen. So we will certainly not achieve full employment and no growth in this Europe! Ladies and gentlemen! Next point: I wonder what is going on and driving this Federal Government, what is it doing to the Foreign Minister, instead of defining full employment in the draft Constitution, now focusing on price stability? Is price stability in the Convention's draft European Constitution something that really should be one of the top objectives of our policy? Is it not more about securing prosperity for all? Isn't it about securing all the work? Is it not about ensuring that all mandatory social standards, even if they may be different in different countries and will still be, are guaranteed? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Do you want inflation?]] We know, Mr Molterer, that more than 11 million people work full-time in this Europe, and yet, although they work full-time, they get too little money, that is, some of the so-called workings. In view of this, measures need to be taken, and this was also addressed to the social democrats and trade unions. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If you want full employment, if you want Europe as a social union, I wonder: Why Straw On the other hand, is there, for example, binding collective agreements, minimum collective contract wages across Europe? We know that these cannot be the same in every country, but at least it would be desirable that 60 percent of the average wage be granted as a binding minimum wage in each country. This would help people, but especially women in individual countries. And that would be an approach to helping precisely the lowest level, i.e. where people cannot secure their income despite work. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Why are you fighting it? Why is there so little creativity about social union? How much creativity do you use to extend working hours, to write price stability in the Treaty, to always invent new concepts across Europe, how to relieve corporate taxes, and how little creativity do you apply to the fact that, in the social and political sphere of Europe, something is going on at last, ladies and gentlemen!Unknown term type: "%s".? Do you not believe that this tax competition, in which Austria is at the forefront, is harmful to Europe in the perspective? Faith You really are that if we lower our corporate taxes so that we can compete with Slovakia, we do something good for Europe? It must be concluded, ladies and gentlemen, with the neoliberal guild which is spoken here of by this Bun of government, but also in Europe! We need a social union!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e4186	The Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour, Dr Bartenstein, spoke on a preliminary opinion. Mr Minister, your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e4204	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Ladies and gentlemen, if I have listened to you – and I have tried to do so – you have spoken against the fact that inflation reduction and price stability continue to belong to the leading principles of the European Union, the European Central Bank. [[Abg. Oils: Full employment!]] This is very remarkable and a completely new position, which I hear today, and allow me to comment on it “absurd” – I do not think more about it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If I have continued to listen to you correctly, you have voted in favour of formulating full employment not only as a goal – that is our common goal, that is the objective of the European Union – but also the failure to achieve full employment. [[Abg. Oillinger: That's not yours!]] If it were so easy to achieve full employment, to create growth, I would be with you, then we would penalise the decline of growth rates and the failure to achieve full employment. But it's not that simple, that's not possible. This can be formulated as a goal, you can go there and work. The Lisbon process is designed to do so, but the way you want it, Mr Oellinger, is certainly not the case. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: What are you doing for it?]] Europe once started as an economic community, that was the European Economic Community. We remember that was a good thing. But now, thanks to God, Europe has developed into a community of values, a community of values and, ultimately, a community of peace. And if you ask me what is in the foreground of the enlargement of the European Union from 15 to 25, then I must tell you: The goal of the peace community was more important compared to the economic community. But let us remain with the Solidarity and Social Community, the subject of your current hour, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Europe's economic model rests on three pillars – you know that. It is these pillars that we consider to be particularly important in Austria, namely the pillars of the economy, social affairs and the environment. They can also sum up as the eco-social model of the market economy, as the sustainable market economy model; that is the European model, that is the Austrian model. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But it's about that being a triangle in balance. If these three pillars are not in balance – economics, social affairs and the environment – the triangle gets out of balance, and one does not go without the other two. A social Europe is only possible if things fit into the environment and economy. An economic Europe is only possible if we keep our house in order in the areas of social and environmental matters. And with “keep our house okay” I mean both the tasks in Brussels and the homework in Austria. We are proud of this economic model, because it works in general, you just have to re-adjust it again and again. We are proud of this because we are here consciously distinguishing ourselves from the Anglo-Saxon, the American model and also from the Asian models, which provide a very wide range from China to Japan. Social is, ladies and gentlemen, in fact what creates work! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] A labour market, which currently has 18 million unemployed in Europe, is not a good job. I didn't expect you to mention it, so I do it: Austria is in a relatively good position in this respect compared to the other European countries. If you talk about social Europe at a current hour, say that according to the Commission's report Austria has the lowest unemployment in Europe of 15! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Tell me, Mr Oellinger, if you want to fulfil a certain right to objectivity, that not we, but Austria's economy, Austrian workers, also Austrian trade unions have made sure that in the last four difficult years, with very low growth, 80 000 jobs could still be created! This was not an easy task, but together this country has managed – with its economy, with its employees. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Let me also tell the Austrians who watch on TV screens that enlargement, according to the Economic Research Institute, has brought or will bring a total of 100 000 additional jobs either since 1989 or by 2010! Why don't you say that, Mr. Ollinger? You don't want to know these things, they don't fit into your concept. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is not a question of you, Mr Oellinger, being an anti-European – you do not want this European Union, you did not want it in 1994, you do not really want it today, Voggenhuber wants it, that is the different awareness in your group – but it really is about this 13. The Austrians also decided on two economic models in Europe on June: between the economic model of the left – an economic model based on debt making, an economic model that is primarily geared to demand stimulation – and an economic model, as we represent it on the part of the EPP and ÖVP, partly based on the theories of three Austrians, namely Schumpeter, Hayek and Mises, the Austrian School of National Economics. This economic model, which we prefer, presents itself on the supply side and highlights research and development, education, a certain flexibility of labour markets and deregulation, while the model of new debt-making in reality does not create any growth that will increase unemployment and create budgetary problems for Austria and Europe. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: 1920!]] It's also about this 13th. June. This is ultimately the question: What are we creating in this Europe more growth that we need? – Let us create it with your left economic model or with that of the eco-social market economy, which, in my view, is significantly better and the primary supply side and not demand-side. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Social is what creates work. You said recently in a committee itself: Without growth, we will not create jobs. In recent years we have stood at about 1 percent, now we are 1.5 to 2 percent. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Your growth is only with the unemployed!]] Let us be so honest – and this also applies to you, ladies and gentlemen – and let us also say that, with the 1.5 to 2%, we are better than in the previous year, but the Americans, the Asians, have a significantly higher growth and that Europe has a catch-up process in terms of competition. We are taking the right measures, ladies and gentlemen. Especially today, the Federal Government has decided to restructure the research landscape for Austria, ensuring that Austria's most important future perspective, namely investment in education, research and development, is further strengthened. We have thus come much closer to our goal of expanding the research and development share towards 2.5 percent and then 3 percent of total economic performance.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e4335	We are now entering the debate. The first speaker is Mr Neugebauer. The speaking time for all other speakers participating in the debate is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e4362	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My two previous speakers have opened their speeches by presenting the beginning of this Europe as an economic community. I agree to point out that the actual beginning was the overcoming of a historic contrast of centuries of war opponents, Germany and France, namely to control the raw materials with the Coal and Steel Community, with which war equipment has normally been purchased. That is the real legitimacy for this Europe, that it is a peace project to which all other attitudes have to be subordinated. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] ‘Neoliberalism or social Europe?’, you express as a contrast. Black and white painting is quite acceptable in times of election, but in view of the Keule Neoliberalism with which you are working today, the shielding policy regarding Spanish yogurt in 1994 has still been a hearty comparison. [[Abg. Scheibner: Be careful!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Oellinger, the equation “Europe is neoliberal = no social policy” is simply wrong. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They ignore the European social model we are constantly working on. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: That's stupid!]] They ignore the preparatory work in Lisbon. They also ignore the advice of Nice. There's still a lot to work on. The fact that you are defying the Stability Pact and thus actually talking about a priceless one can already say, as an employee's representative, that workers will first be affected if they do not continue to pursue a consolidation and stability pact. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I am proud of the fact that in the Austrian Trade Union Confederation we have jointly expressed our support for this European social model, including the Austrian nature of association, the social partnership, which in other countries had to be learned. The Dutch started with the polder model. As a small country, we have introduced this tradition of co-operation, this social dialogue as a method for the development of topics accordingly. If you read the Commission's reports on what is currently on the agenda in 2004, it is the employment issue. There's a lot to work on. A very important issue is, for example, the revision of the Directive on the European Works Councils on the fight against discrimination. We have the European Year of People with Disabilities behind us. Is it really desirable? – There is a benchmark to offer and to improve again. It is also more about coordination of social security systems and other matters. But let me also say the following, because yes is election: This always reminds me of an essay by the former president of the Czech Republic Václav Havel, who aptly wrote his book with “trying to live in the truth. ” That's where I read on posters: ‘water must not be privatised’, including: 13. June. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: What is “Roman Source” and “Vöslauer” like?]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the O-Ton, Mr. Landeshupmann of Vienna, Michael Häupl, thanked the Austrian Members, including the colleagues of the Socialist Group, on 14 May. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this year we are not talking about the liberalisation of water supply. But if you're swinging and spreading fear here, then that's not the Vienna-based shame anymore, but a conscious false report! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, do not review this poster message, They have fallen to be referred to as false-listers in an election campaign in which material arguments should be made. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Oils: (keeping an advertising in height) And what is that?]] We do not need a neoliberal Europe that does not exist either. We also need not a left-wing Europe with a risk of stability, but an eco-social Europe with a strong centre power. And that is where the European People's Party is happy to offer itself.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e4489	Next, Mr. Dr. Cap will speak. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e4518	I'd just say, This is not the case, as a government, even in ongoing information work in relation to the 13th century. June, put down and said: We tried everything. We have tried on all levels. – And you also turn ads at the expense of taxpayers, almost with the seemingly overparty claim, inspired by the individual departments: Where one cannot explain it, one shifts the blame to Brussels and believes so until the 13th century. To be able to pass through June. That's not going to happen! The voters and the voters, the Austrians and the Austrians will not let this happen to you; and we will not, above all, go through the SPÖ! I can tell you that now. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The data actually speaks against you and for itself. The development of unemployment in Austria shows your lack of willingness to set up initiatives at European level which make sense (a) (b) boost employment and (c) provide the necessary impetus for growth. Only if I think about how you refused to take part in the initiative of individual EU Member States for an employment and growth initiative by the Austrian Government! They sent the Minister of Finance. He then wandered around with the pipe bar in the area and reminded everyone that the Stability Pact was completely inflexible, without regard to economic development. In the end, this was your policy, which you have left there and which has led to you being not taken seriously at European level by a large part of the Member States. Example Transit. Four ministers have dileted there. In the final effect it was not possible for you to build a lobby. And what happened? – It was decided against Austria. Let's leave this as a self-caller. Now place them on the side of the ÖVP: ‘Austria strongly represented in Brussels’. – I already understand the self-criticism, because what you have done in Brussels both by the government and by the ÖVP was anything but strongly represented. You picked up your daily defeats there. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It's going on. Only when I think about how we discussed with Temelín! It is necessary to build a lobby in Europe for the exit from nuclear energy. [[Abg. May. Molterer: We did!]] It is not to be built over the back doors with our taxpayers nuclear power plants, which are still insecure, and are also subsidized. What did you do? – No lobby against nuclear energy built up! One more defeat is dispossessed. This is a long list, a scapegoat list, a scapegoat that you have to answer, whereby you simply failed to respect Austrian interests within the European Union, interests of life such as employment, such as prosperity, security interests such as the fight against nuclear power plants, especially in the area of border, transit, in turn, interest in life. You simply failed, and you just have to say that here in all clarity in this context. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: “Hans-Peter Martin” I can only say!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: Martin – top candidate of SPÖ!]] The last point is: Finally, take a clear position on what you are planning with the Austrian water! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Ask “Vöslauer” and “Roman Source”!]] That's inconceivable! Mr Pascal Lamy, EU Trade Commissioner, admits openly that you intend to release and privatise European water. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: These are social democrats, are they?]] And what are you doing? – Cry with the wolves, which then want to be fed to the private water drinks as soon as possible! That's where I tell you, we're not going to join. Hands away from Austrian water! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I understand, of course, that you're excited because you can't consume the daily water anymore. [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] But I say to you, of course, that is also a social question. Those who privatize the water buy that the quality of the water is getting worse and that it becomes more expensive. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: “Blood chocolate”!]] Then that's only more brackish water at the end. I'll tell you: We will defend the Austrian water! We say: Hands away from Austrian water! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We could at all discuss your overall attitude towards general care and public services, for which you have developed a really disturbed relationship. I'm just telling you one thing: You have to ask yourself slowly why you have failed to really represent Austrian interests. [[Abg. May. Molterer: SPÖ at shield level!]] Austria needs to be heard again! – That is, I think, a very important demand.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e4684	The next speaker was Mr Bösch. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e4739	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! ‘Austria must be heard again!’, so that Mr. Col. Cap ended his speech out here. Mr Cap, it would be important for Austria to be heard again at European level, but not as the Social Democrats did. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Then there will be sanctions!]] Especially in the time of sanctions, they were the ones who betrayed the interests of Austria at European level. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is a fact. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We have here the letter from your top candidate Swoboda, in which he thanked his comrades at European level for the sanctions because in Austria a government between FPÖ and ÖVP was formed in 2000. [[Abg. Scheibner: What?]] [[Embarrassment with the Free and the ÖVP]] This is immense, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Who was that?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: What did he say?]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Who was that? Swoboda?]] The European Union has long since become a neoliberal terror union, as you represent it here from the Greens, but also from the SPÖs. Mr Oellinger, however, you are right that this government of ÖVP and FPÖ had to take on a serious legacy in relation to the negotiations that much has not been sufficiently negotiated there. That's a fact. It is therefore necessary that we can also represent the interests of individual Member States in the social field. Ladies and gentlemen! The European Union has long been no longer just an economic union. It is already on a stage of further development in many areas. However, in the social field in particular, there is the only way to ensure that we have strong countries within the European Union – strong countries that can make a good economic policy and thus also an efficient social policy within the framework of the European Union. This is the challenge this Federal Government has faced since 2000 to make an efficient and financial social policy, regardless of the turbulence at European level. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is therefore important that we also support our Social Minister in all his advances at European level and here try to accommodate the interests of Austria in all areas. [[Abg. Oil: Who? What?]] This has been done by this government in the negotiation of transitional arrangements with regard to the accession of new candidate countries, Mr President. [[Abg. Oils: This is social policy?]] And this will continue to do so in many areas in the next few years. They have cited the Stability Pact as an example in which this neoliberal idea manifests itself. But there, Mr Oellinger, the Stability Pact shows that the Union is also flexible. Even the Stability Pact is now being discussed, especially by the Red-Green Federal Government in the Federal Republic of Germany. Many policies in the European Union must be addressed. Social policy is an important area, and nuclear policy is also an important area. It was our liberals who, with a consistent attitude in recent years, have tried to implement a clear anti-atomic policy not only the Republic of Austria but also the European Union, and to make it a reality. The transit problem – you smile very easily, Mrs Glawischnig – is also a difficult legacy of former governments. [[Abg. Reheis: That's where you failed!]] I am therefore glad that we have a member of the Federal Government with Mr Vice-Chancellor, who has begun to solve this problem actively and vigorously. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Where?]] The common foreign and security policy is another area where the Union will have to prove itself. That is why, in the context of the EU election campaign, we are also setting up an impressive initiative against human rights violations and atrocities, which are now happening in Iraq and which as European politicians cannot simply stand silently against. We have taken action against it! For the first time, the European Union has proved itself to be a counterweight to the USA and its idea of world policy. Europe must confess itself here and act against it! [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Dr. Wolfmayr.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We therefore need not only a Union for social policy, for foreign and economic policy, but primarily a European Union that represents the interests of the people. And for that we will stand up for the liberals.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e4921	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e4949	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! One thing is interesting: We are having a debate today on social Europe without a Social Minister. I would have liked to have a statement by the Minister of Social Affairs – in all clarity – because, after all, the issue is what it is all about today. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] But no, we are sent to the Minister for Economic Affairs – an economic minister who claims that new goals in the European Union are absurd in his opinion. Such a thing as full employment, because it cannot be achieved anyway, could be completely left out at all. And he said more like things. Ladies and gentlemen! Here the government really shows what it needs of the European Union. It only needs and abuses the European Union to justify neoliberal approaches, privatisations and pure internal market policies. This is the policy of the current Federal Government. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Minister! If you deserved to quote Austrian scientists from the national economy such as Schumpeter or Hayek, this is very commendable. But you should also take into account that even highly deserved scientists occasionally focused on their theories, because to a modern national economy, to a modern European economy, these theories simply and grippingly no longer fit. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Ah so? Interesting!]] They prefer ten times more models such as flat tax, down tax competition, a social dumping in Europe, which you are very happy to take up in order to justify your own tough measures against social weakness. And this, Minister, I would like to thank you very much! [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: How the parental age?- Oh, my God!]] Let us now look at what it means when, at European level, the Austrian Federal Government, together with its colleagues in the same school of thought, replaces the proposal of the European Constitutional Convention, namely “Full Employment”, with the word ‘high level of employment’. [[Abg. May. Molterer:...! Or what do you mean?]] Ladies and gentlemen! What does that mean? – It is quite clear that a policy is consciously being made here, which wants to maintain a manoeuvring mass of cheap workers, constantly under the enormous pressure of impoverishment, in order to exert pressure on the other workers in Europe. This is a concept of the past that has never proved successful. Europe had good and great successes, including economic successes through the model of the social market economy, by the model in which it was tried to secure and maintain mass welfare. Ladies and gentlemen! They now want to go the American way where threats, i.e. pressure, will make the labour force of the individual worker available to the labour market as far as possible. But, ladies and gentlemen, this model doesn't work in the long run. They thus have a lower value added per capita, high dissatisfaction and a high social risk for all national economies, especially for the pan-European economy. And if you, as the only substitute, call the Lisbon objectives non-binding objectives, which have already been identified in an interim report, that they are not achieved with the strategies that are offered, then I do not just have to They criticise but also the colleagues from the European Social Democracy who believe that they can achieve something with this model. We need a minimum measure, we need a “decommissioning” down in tax competition – we need more than urgent, otherwise we risk European social systems endlessly, otherwise we put pressure on European social systems so that what you call as a social market economy and the beautiful triangle that must exist in a balanced way – namely the triangle of economy, ecology and social rights – gets out of balance. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A social Europe is essential for economic development, but also for sustainable environmental security in Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e5061	The next speaker is Mrs Riener. 5 minutes speaking time. – Mrs Colleague, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e5079	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Mr. Federal Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! If the Greens are asked today the question of a social Europe, it must be said quite clearly that Europe can only be as social as its Member States. And Austria has a role model! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Whether it be family aid, weekly allowance, operating aid, maintenance advance, tax benefits for families, pupils and apprentices, study aid, unemployment and emergency allowance, sickness benefit, prescription allowance and broadcasting allowance, survivors' pensions, care allowance, social assistance or the achievements of the ÖVP/FPÖ government under Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel, such as the child care allowance for all, family hospice, treatment new or now the right to part-time to name only some of the social benefits. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Pensions have forgotten!]] Austria can actually be seen with the reach. A European comparison makes us sure. The employment sector in particular shows that it is important to take proper action at the right time. In spite of the lack of economic activity, as mentioned by our Minister for Economic Affairs, which is a global effect, Austria is cutting off very well. According to Eurostat, Austria has the second lowest unemployment rate in the EU-25 after Luxembourg with 4.5 percent, and the EU Commission predicts that we will already overtake Luxembourg this year and reach first place. [[Abg. Oils: But don't believe everything!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Especially in the case of youth unemployment, Austria is already the first in the positive ranking with 7.3 percent, with the EU section more than twice as high at 18 percent. This means that measures such as the "Jobs for You(th)" initiative or the 1 000-€ training premium are taken. Unemployment has also fallen by 5.7 percent for over 50 years of age. The reduction in the additional wage costs for older workers thus has an effect. According to labour market service, 10 percent more open jobs are available at the end of April 2004 compared to the previous year. With the economic and growth packages, Austria has so far gone the right way – and we continue this path as well. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] With the tax reform 2004/2005, we not only secure the economic location in Austria, but also secure and create new jobs. Although international circumstances cannot be completely removed from the economic situation, it is possible to counter them. Doing or pursuing employment and having work is not only a basis of life, but also a meaning of meaning and quality of life. But there is still a lot to do: Each and every unemployed person is one or one too much. The level of income must be existential. The call for the Young ÖVP to distribute the active earnings amount so that workers receive higher entry salaries and flatten the curve towards the pension is also mentioned here. This is where the social partners are called for. In order to be able to implement these measures, a wide-ranging discussion is needed. The social partners would be responsible for this – yes, “would”, because what has happened in recent years only shows that ÖGB and the Chamber of Labour have become a precursor to the SPÖ; or it was not as apparent as the SPÖ was in the government. Social partnership means a balance of interests between employers and workers in the form of dialogue and compromises. Modern social partnership and social policy need this particular quality of dialogue. However, it seems that the ÖGB and the Chamber of Labour have already already agreed on this as far as any better knowledge in the discussions on pension harmonisation is concerned that the withdrawal of the old pension reform is required. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni]] The ÖVP remains the only guarantee of social peace by balancing social and social weaknesses in our society, but also by balancing the interests of employers and workers, because the last time Europe has heard about the social democrats, Austria has introduced sanctions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Conclusion: The ÖVP is the integration party and a model in Europe!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e5197	The next speaker was Mr Dr. One. 5 minutes speaking time. – Mr Commissioner, you are on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e5232	Mr President. Lords of the Federal Government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Let me once again say what we have to blame you, even in the present hour. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What we are blaming you is that you speak beautiful words, but don't worry about the real problems that people's serious lives face! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Let me say this clearly once again, on the basis of the example of unemployment, which you, Mr Bartenstein, have also referred to. Of course. You are constantly talking about growth data in the field of employment, but what you are not saying, because it doesn't fit you or because you really don't care, is that unemployment has increased every year since that government took place. Don't say anything about that. They watch out for it! – And You are Minister of Labour, Federal Minister! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But that's not enough. They do not only look forward to increasing unemployment, also youth unemployment, but they also aggravate the situation by, for example, deeply discouraging the population about the pension reform or the so-called pension reform, which you have decided to help people start saving because they fear that they will no longer get a reasonable pension in the future. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Take a look at Germany!]] The consequence is a further decline in demand. The consequence is a further increase in unemployment, ladies and gentlemen, and this is the wrong policy! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] That's not enough. Of course, you would have the opportunity to act rationally with state resources, but what are you doing? – [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You left us billions of debts!]] They decide on a tax reform that relieves big capital, but they do not invest the money in infrastructure, not in education, not in research, and they do not relieve the beneficiaries of small incomes, which would really help to stimulate the economy, and would help to reduce unemployment at last because demand increases. That, ladies and gentlemen, is my neoliberal or neoconservative policy, one thing, at least: It is a non-social policy that we are blaming you here! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] And what, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, does this have to do with Europe? – This is a good thing, and it has a lot to do with Europe, because this missing policy that you are running from ÖVP and FPÖ in the country is also active at European level. No initiative for growth in Europe has been taken by the Austrian Federal Government! To your comparison, Minister Bartenstein, with the USA: There is therefore growth in the United States because it is invested there because the state is investing there! [[Abg. May. Molterer: In the armor!]] Only that is why there is growth – and not through supply-side policy! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The State is investing in the wrong things; it agrees, Mrs Colleague. We are not in favour of Europe investing in the arms industry, but rather of investing in infrastructure, education and research. [[Abg. May. Molterer: But that's what the USA is doing!]] In any event, investment must be made; Growth does not come about by itself! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is no initiative from this Federal Government for more employment in Europe – and we blame you for that! There is also no initiative to ensure that the European budget is finally relocated: away from strong and unilateral agricultural support to investment! There is nothing from the Austrian Federal Government as an initiative in this direction – and, Minister Bartenstein, there is no initiative on your part or initiative of this Federal Government to secure those people in Austria who are not among the winners of the enlargement of the European Union. We have to blame you! What it was all about is finally making politics in people's life's interests! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, if you are not able to do all these things if you are not willing to finally make these life interests the central point of your policy and ensure that people have work and income, then you earn on 13. It's a memorial on June 1st!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e5375	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). He is now bound to a speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e5394	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In the near future, a replica on the wrong information given by Dr. One here. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Apart from the fact that we are grateful to you that you have declared here that you want a shift away from agriculture at European level – very interesting; there are many people who will really be very interested – I am looking for you to stick to the matter. They know that, in many ways, we are trying together to combat youth unemployment, that we have taken joint decisions in this direction. For example, I can only point to the provision of training for young people, where we have been able to achieve success, which is why unemployment rates in this area have already fallen. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Polemik from the government bank is indispensable, very indispensable!]] Mr. Dr. One, if you are not interested in this – and really interested in it You obviously don't do this –: Let us talk to Mr Vergestnich about this; he knows it, for it has also been negotiated with him. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, also know that no federal government has invested as much for education, as much for infrastructure and as much for research and development as the government has just been. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Arrogance! The arrogance of power! That's arrogant!]] That is what the Federal Chancellor, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Infrastructure, Mr Gorbach, who is now sitting next to me, said several times. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Let me, however, point this out briefly, from the example of research and development: In addition, €1.2 billion is available in the years 2004 to 2006 for public research and development. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: This polemic is indispensable! That's incredible! This polemic is absolutely essential! That's inconceivable!]] Furthermore, a modern research organisation – with the agreement of the employers – which today happened to the Council of Ministers. 2.27 percent R & D ratio in 2004; almost half more of what has happened in your time of government. – We are on the right track regarding R & D-Quote, in the direction of 2.5 and 3 percent. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] In terms of labour market policy, Dr. Eins: Take only the numbers from the AMS – there you are permanently represented by your friends from the AK – and let us say that in 1999, when the Social Democratic Labour Ministers were responsible for this, they spent €750 million a year on active labour market policy – now, Mr. Dr. Eins, on the other hand, it is €1.44 billion! [[Abg. Silhavy:..., unemployment has risen!]] So around the double!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e5521	Mr Scheibner is now speaking. He too has a speaking time of 5 minutes. – Please, Mr Klubobmann, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e5539	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! "Politics in the interests of people" asked the honourable Member for one; “Austria needs to be heard again in Europe”, asked Mr Cap. – From the mouth of social democrats this has to be understood as a dangerous threat, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Wittmann.]] How can we see this in the Social Democracy that Austria needs to be heard again, Mr Wittmann and ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, whom you put on – Mr Bösch has already pointed out –: The current leader candidate of the Social Democratic Party wrote on 16 March. March... [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Very weak! Very weak!]] Yes, that is really weak, Mr President. Listen to what this letter from Swoboda says! ==References== On March 16, 2000, the current SPÖ summit candidate wrote at the EU elections, a few days after the European Union had imposed totally unjustified sanctions on an entire country, the Republic of Austria – and only because, after a democratic election, a government was established in our country that did not fit the left-wing democratics in Europe – on 16 March 2000. So in March 2000, SPÖ representative Hannes Swoboda wrote to his colleagues, to the MEPs in the European Parliament. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] – To remember your keyword: The voice of Austria must be heard again! Hannes Swoboda wrote – I quote –: 'Dear colleague, dear colleague! On behalf of the Austrian Social Democratic Delegation – that is, all Austrian SPÖ MEPs in the European Parliament – “I would like to thank you very much for the many signs of friendship and solidarity in the past – for us truly not easy – weeks.” [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Unheard of!]] – Swoboda says thank you for the sanctions! It's wonderful! [[Interlocutory calls at SPÖ as well as calls to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] “These signs are just as important to us as the fact that the other EU governments had to respond to the involvement of the FPÖ in the Austrian government.” – Thank you, Mr Swoboda, thank you very much to the SPÖ members for these sanctions! Was that your wish from the SPÖ: this response from the EU and all these sanctions against our country? I continue to quote from this letter by Hannes Swoboda – and now his attempt comes not only to one party but to our whole country: ‘For the FPÖ is a party in power to use racist and xenophobic arguments’, ‘to win votes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni]] And such an attitude must not be rewarded with a government participation.” – This was what Mr Swoboda wrote on 16 April. In March 2000, his colleagues in the European Union. [[Intervocations at the SPÖ as well as calls to the liberals.]] In this letter it goes on to say: “But as the demonstrations of recent weeks in particular have shown, there is also an Austria that is massively opposed to xenophobia, racism and nationalism. We have to do everything in Austria to develop and support these world-open, pro-European forces.” – So the quote of the SP deputy Swoboda. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Awesome!]] What were those demonstrations? – These were violent demonstrations in which there were attacks and damage to property! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] These are the "world-open, pro-European forces", according to SP candidates Swoboda, which according to Social Democracy in Austria must be promoted?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Swoboda also wrote in this letter – I quote –: "For this, however, we still need the solidarity of all democratic forces at European level." – That is: [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Yes imagine!]] EU, please don't stop the sanctions! Just don't let the people be softened by protests against these sanctions! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This is a scandal that the SPÖ initiated!]] Just stick to these sanctions, that's to say. End of this letter from Swoboda – I quote again –: “For Austria in today’s situation, special efforts are needed – for European integration –.” – Thank you, ladies and gentlemen from Social Democracy: Is this the “word of Austria” that “is to be heard again in the European Union”?- Oh, my God! We are of the opinion: no, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Interlocutory calls at SPÖ as well as calls to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In the European Union democracy is to be ruled, in the European Union the word of citizens is to be heard, but not the socialist or social-democratic politician à la Swoboda, whose own ideology, one's own party policy, is important, but not the reputation of Austria! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] In any case, Mr Gusenbauer, Mr Cap – because this is about your top candidates – is a clear removal! However, it would be best for you to remove such a candidate from your list, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Austria needs mandates representing the interests of Austria in the European Parliament – but do not act against the interests of the Austrian population! A word about your water history. There too you are exposed. Read your messages from the nineties, where we warned that the principle of unanimity should not be avoided in order to secure the water resources for Austria! Swoboda to Haider: FPÖ insists on uncertainty! No one is planning to attack the water resources. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] We've done this: The principle of unanimity in water remains. And as long as this government is as composite as it is now, there will be no access to Austrian water! Your campaign is empty. Take colleagues Swoboda from the list of candidates! That would be an act in the interests of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e5731	Next speaker is Member Sburny. 5 minutes speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e5749	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! As far as I know, it was you, Mr Molterer, who commissioned a study on the economic effects of water liberalisation, which was about a year and a half ago. So even so to reject it is not that you have an interest in privatizing the water supply. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] “How much of the ‘iron lady’” – Margaret Thatcher is meant – “Is in the chancellor?” Wolfgang Schüssel is meant. For example, the “falter ” wrote an article about a year ago. It is indeed an interesting question when the UK, under Margaret Thatcher, has set the first dramatic measures as a pioneer for the neoliberal course in Europe, and in so far as Austria is interested in what is being done in many other European countries. If the European Constitution is now being discussed and there is also the question of which mandatory rules should be established, then it is obvious that everything that falls in the field of the Economic Union should be laid down by law, while everything that falls in the field of employment and the social union is a general appeal. Price stability and fiscal consolidation are much more important to you in the government than full employment and distribution justice. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Central issues, which are typical of neoliberalism, are also borne by the Austrian government, for example the reduction of taxes and taxes on big capital, large companies and corporations, and at the same time a burden, a relative burden and sometimes an absolute additional burden, the lower levels of income. Just one number: The increase in gross domestic product in the euro area amounted to 0.6 percent in 2003. That is a wealth gain, so one could say, of 0.6 percent. This is little, but it is a slight gain in prosperity for the euro zone. Growth in Group profits was partly more than 30 percent. There is a bank that operates internationally: 32 percent profit. But the 0.6, which are so generally presented, are a bit of a milky one. You actually see exactly where the money goes: it is distributed from bottom to top, and that with your support in the government. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's a fool!]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] They have, like Margaret Thatcher in the UK, reduced the taxation of corporate profits and, on the other hand, privatized public tasks. This is another point in this neoliberal concept that public tasks are seen as an unproductive burden, as the Thatcher calls them. You have to ask yourself: What are these public tasks that are always called loads? – These are, for example, tasks of education, including tasks of water and energy supply, which is the task of maintaining public transport in a certain quality and comprehensive manner. And you want these public tasks to be disposed of by the public as an unproductive burden, so to speak, and outsourced to private individuals – and you do so, as well as the example of pension reform. That is, on the one hand, public tasks are no longer performed, it is outsourced to individuals, on the other hand, the individual is taxed beyond the top salary classes or the well-earned companies. This tax dumping, which is currently taking place, i.e. the state has less and less revenue, leads down to a spiral that leads to poverty across the EU. We've heard it today: 56 million Europeans live at the poverty line or are threatened with poverty. And you have nothing else to do with public expenditure, which is to benefit those who are threatened with poverty, to continue to reduce the tax burden on the little ones and to reduce it for the big ones. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What we need is a social union. We need a minimum wage in existence throughout Europe. And you, as government parties, are invited to stand up for a social union and not to take measures to increase social conflicts.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e5812	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e5830	I announce that the Green Club according to § 74 para. 2 before the entry into the agenda, the Rules of Procedure asked for urgent consideration of the self-employed amendment 397/A (E) tabled at the same time by Dr Eva Glawischnig, colleagues with regard to silence and inactivity on the Slovak Government's development plans for Mochovce, the extension of the life of Bohunice V1 and the European nuclear exodus. Under the Rules of Procedure, the request for urgent procedure will be discussed at 3 p.m. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e5855	I shall also inform you that before entering the agenda, honourable Members may. Mr Ulrike Lunacekbe requested to report to the Financial Committee on Amendment 25/A (E) by Mr Mag. Lunacek, colleagues on the introduction of a foreign share tax (Tobin-Tax) for a period of 15 years. ==References== [[Call the Greens: Foreign exchange tax!]] The word is right: Foreign exchange tax. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Oils: Super!]] In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. Since this meeting called for a urgent request to be dealt with, the brief debate will take place following this one. The vote on the motion for a deadline itself will take place at the end of this debate. Apart from the 24-hour lead-out period
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e5901	In order to be able to negotiate items 3 and 4 of the agenda, it is in accordance with § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure required to waive the 24-hour deadline for the setting up of the Committee's report. Points 3 and 4 are the reports of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government Template (415 of the Supplements): The Federal Act amending the Electricity Economic and Organisation Act and on Amendment 78/A (E) by Georg Oberhaidinger, colleagues on the urgent need for the extension of the high-voltage network in Austria (507 of the supplements) and on Amendment 374/A (E) by Johannes Schweisgut, Mares Rossmann, colleagues and colleagues on long-term coordination of semester holidays (508 of the supplements). I would ask the ladies and gentlemen to give their agreement to the removal of the 24-hour time-limit for these two committee reports. – This has been adopted unanimously. That is why we are doing so. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e5939	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 by the GO to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e6123	The debate on points 1 and 2, 6 to 10, 12 to 14 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. That's why we're doing this. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e6148	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the duration and shape of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: ÖVP and SPÖ each 158, Free 108, Green 117 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote on this proposal from the President-in-Office. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with him to give a sign on this. – This too is unanimously adopted. 1. Point Report of the Family Committee on the Government Template (399, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act, which amends the Mother Protection Act 1979, the Father's Carenz Act, the Land Arbeitsgesetz 1984, the Law on Working Time, the Employment Act, the Law on Goods, the Construction Workers' Vacation and Processing Act and the Labour Market Promotion Act (483 d.b.) 2. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 347/A (E) by Mr Mag. Andrea Kuntzl, colleagues on the exemption for fathers on the occasion of the birth of a child (parent protection month) (484 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e6199	We now come to points 1 and 2 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. I call Mr Mandak. Desirable time: 7 minutes. – Mrs Colleague, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e6223	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Right to part-time parents – one should assume that we Greens stand out there and rejoice, rejoice, say: Great, great thing, we've been waiting a long time, we've always represented this, we'd like to! And yet it's not. I would like to explain why this is not so, and I would also like to explain to you why we cannot agree to your request, as it stands, and will not be able to accept it. It is often so in the political debate that it is said that the famous glass of water is half full or half empty. And now I'm going to show you what you're doing with this law. [[The speaker takes a glass to his hand and fills it to a third with water.]] You're making a law like that. There is not a speech of half full or half empty, but it is a law that is comparable to a glass that is full in about a third, but no longer. If that is enough for you as a political announcement, if you believe that this is a good law in this form, I must tell you that we do not believe it! We believe that the glass must be at least half full or ideally completely or 80 percent filled. You see here the great difference that exists, which makes it simply impossible for us to agree to this law in the current form. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Why? – The law on the right to parental leave is that parents of children up to seven years of age have a right to work only part-time. You make the right dependent on these parents working in a farm that has more than 20 employees. And now we have the big problem that 92 percent of Austrian businesses alone are not covered by this scheme. 92 percent of farms do not fall below that! In 92 percent of the companies, the employees are thus excluded from this law. It is therefore an unjust law. For how do people who happen to work in a smaller farm not benefit from a good law on their own? It is true that two thirds of female employees in Austria will not benefit from this law. Two-thirds! [[Call the ÖVP: That's not true!]] That is true, these figures are true, and we have not received the evidence to date. [[Abg. Steibl: No, these are the numbers of the Chamber of Workers! The main association has disproved this!]] It is also clear that a third of women's employees are less employed than three years in the holding. That is to say, this group is also falling out of the provisions. [[Abg. Steibl: That's not true either! ... two years count!]] And the circle of all those who could actually take advantage of this right is increasingly decreasing, and, finally, according to Synthesis investigation, it remains that 77 percent of all employees between 20 and 45 years of age are excluded from this claim. 77 percent! You say that's not true. Minister Bartenstein stated in the Committee: That is not the case, two thirds of the parents in question have a legal claim! - Only, the numbers he owes us. And he said something. I don't like to use the workers' chamber numbers, especially at election times! Minister! The Chamber of Workers is a representative of the interests that works serially, and I see no reason at all for you simply to question numbers of the Chamber of Workers without at the same time putting your numbers on the table. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The socialist works!]] [[Abg. Wattaul: Forced membership!]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would like to address other aspects. There is still a very great disadvantage of this law, which my colleague Weinzinger will certainly address. In your government program, you have very much anchored the gender mainstreaming. You have promised people in Austria that you will see the laws to what extent they benefit men and women. This law does not affect women once again because more women than men do not fall under it. That seems to be the same for you. A very important point, where we are aware that it will take longer to solve it, but it must be addressed urgently, is the fact that apprentices do not fall into the provisions. This means that those who are very important for them to be able to take up or reclaim a job have no opportunity to do so because they can only be full-time. There is also an urgent need for action. What you have not yet passed by this law, however, is absolutely necessary, these are accompanying measures for fathers who need to be promoted in order to increase their use of this part-time work. Otherwise, we have the situation that it will only be used again by women, and that is something that falls to women in the final effect, which leads to further disadvantages. There is a clear need for action here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But we're not just talking about the law being unjust, and we're not doing anything. We have tabled an amendment to which we make the two essential points of the law and make it a just law. And if you are interested in a fair law that really benefits most of the workers, I ask you to support this amendment. It aims to eliminate this regulation of the 20 employees per company, which means that the remaining 92 percent of the companies are also included. And the second point is that the three-year membership of the company is missing and that this really includes all employees in this law and does not create a two-class company as it is currently the case. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] A word on the request concerning the month of Fatherhood, which will also be discussed under this item on the agenda. We support this request by the Socialist Party because we believe that it is good and right for fathers to be with children in the first month after birth. There's always the discussions, it's supposed to be the first month, it's not supposed to be. The first month is an important one, because it is also very important for mothers. When they experience how the fathers care for the children, this is a big step in the right direction. The fathers are then also more familiar with the children. It is clear to us, however, that this can only be a mosaic stone, a mosaic stone in a whole range of measures that we urgently need in order for the profession and family to be better united. But we certainly support this one point and will be happy to agree to the SPÖ's request for the establishment of a fatherly protection month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e6352	The amendment tabled by Mrs Mandak was tabled in accordance with § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to all Members. It has been sufficiently presented by Mrs Mandak in the broad outlines, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e6457	The next speaker is Mrs Steibl. Desirable time: 8 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e6476	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! A law is always a matter of application. What my colleague has just described is perhaps the view of the Greens. I now simply agree to inform you of the content of the Committee's proposal. The government template to be adopted today at the parental age represents a further major contribution in the large package of measures of this government to improve the compatibility of work and family life. There are now 67 percent of all mothers of infants in Austria. We are therefore in third place after Sweden, Norway and Belgium. It is announced by Federal Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel at the 2003 ORF summer talks and is now negotiated by Federal Minister Dr. Martin Bartenstein in cooperation with the employers' and employees' representatives. ==References====External links==* Official website The age of a child, while at the same time giving a right to return to the original working time. Prerequisite for this legal claim is a job in a farm with more than 20 employees – yes, that is true! – and more than three years of occupational residence – but the periods of maternity protection from eight weeks and the periods of karence up to two years and finally also the period of pregnancy are taken into account, so this time is reduced to five to six months. This too must be clearly explained here! Only the framework conditions, such as start, duration, extent and situation of working time, must be agreed with the employer or employer. If no agreement is reached on the arrangements for part-time work, the employer or the employer may apply for a comparison by means of an in-house preliminary procedure at the Labour and Social Courts. Only after a possible failure – but I don't think so, because I think it's important for the employer to have employees and employees who are happy with the profession – is a lawsuit possible in court. That is to say, ladies and gentlemen, In the case of more than 20 employees, an establishment must prove why it may claim a part-time entitlement to its employees until the end of the 7th century. The age of the child is not granted. Now comes what you always want to forget: In smaller establishments with less than 20 employees, the current procedure remains unchanged. That means: Part-time employment, including start, duration, extent and location of working time, may be agreed with the employer or employer until the fourth birthday of the child. There is a difference between businesses with more than 20 employees only if there is a non-conformity on a part-time employment scheme. In this case, the employee or the employee must continue to bring an action. In practice, however, this will not happen because if employers and employees do not get together, it is not possible to continue working there either. However, part-time can also be determined in small farms by means of an operating agreement. In this case, the staff representatives will be responsible or they may rang. Ladies and gentlemen! If the opposition is now saying that this parental leave is a rule, I have to say: Both opposition parties, both SPÖ and Greens, do not want to admit that this government is setting up an excellent family policy measure. I didn't expect anything else. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] It was originally – and is of course still – a demand of SPÖ and Greens, and I thank the SPÖ that she goes with the half full glass – it is only half empty. Thanks a lot! Ladies and gentlemen! The number of those who can take advantage of parental leave will be greater than it was declared by the AK and the opposition, especially by the Greens. The minimum duration of employment of three years prior to the desired start of part-time work is reduced by up to two years, as mentioned above, by taking into account the period of maternity protection and the time of care. This means that much more parents will benefit from this claim. The figures presented by the AK have already been disproved by the main association. In reality, 65 to 70 percent of employees will benefit from these schemes. Ladies and gentlemen! Now, for comparison, a look at Sweden as it looks with the parent age. ==References====External links== Year of life of her child the right to shorten her working time to up to six hours a day – a rigid reduction possibility – but there is no general right to part-time work, as we are now planning. Allow me now to make a few comments on the SPÖ's request for exemptions for fathers, namely the request to introduce a month of fatherhood on the occasion of the birth of a child. It is true that in recent years the education and care of children have become a common task of mothers and fathers. Currently, the father usually has a right to exemption from service at the time of the birth of a child according to § 8 para. 3 employees' law and also a claim for compensation. Furthermore, numerous collective agreements also provide for such claims to the extent of two to three days. Finally, the fathers have a right to Karenz until the second birthday of the child, according to the father's law. Through the possibility of simultaneous use of Karenz during the first change of the caregiver, in particular the father should be facilitated to take care of the child. Ladies and gentlemen! There is also the possibility of entering into an agreement on a possible extension of the care leave or of introducing a special leave on the occasion of the birth of a child, either in the company or in the collective agreement. I think that the negotiating power of the social partners will not stand in the way of anyone, because a month of fatherly protection prescribed by law could quickly result in a de motivating by the economy in terms of the recruitment of men of childbearing age. That's not what anyone wants – is it? Then: Our country needs children! . I meant that in the direction of my economy, which I am nevertheless grateful that she agreed to the Parent Time Act. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Sburny: This is what is now the case with women!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, profession and family must not stand in the way of each other! The many measures, such as the childcare allowance, family hospice, the package in favour of families in the recently decided tax reform, the increase in afternoon care at schools by 20 percent, the competition “most women and family friendly businesses”, family audit and much more, show that Austria is at the forefront with its activities, with its measures in terms of compatibility of family and profession. Ladies and gentlemen! How is it now so beautiful in a large newspaper: Politics needs a promise and a politician to redeem it. – This is what this government is doing!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e6554	Mr Oellinger has now come to the floor. Requested time: Seven minutes. – I give the floor to you, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e6573	Ladies and gentlemen! The words of the colleague Steibl were beautiful when she said, “Profession and family must not stand in the way of each other. ” Oh, that's going down like butter! [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] Only: This has relatively little to do with reality, Mr Steibl, that is the problem! – So far problem number one. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now on the problem number two: The right to part-time – of course, a great thing! But, please, all women and also men who want to exercise this right, perhaps free of charge, because you have caused it, give a scheduler, because what deadlines there are connected with that must not be missed, which must be respected in order to be able to combine the right to part-time child care with the child care allowance, with the care period is remarkable! So in the first two, three years of life of the child, there is already on the one hand the problem of the compatibility of childcare and work, if you want to continue to be in employment, and on the other hand the problem – a huge problem – with the term of protection, regulations, pre-registrations, with the deadlines you prescribe in the karenz, in the childcare allowance, in the mother's protection, in the notification of pregnancy, when entering the right to part-time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] All this is not little, I tell you! [[Abg. Lens: But it works!]] Unfortunately, there is also – and this is the next problem! – huge gaps! But first of all, to the actual legal claim. Right to part-time – great! But, please, for everyone, because the need to make this compatible applies not only to workers in larger businesses, but also to women and men in small businesses, who also have the right to make it compatible. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The family does not separate into a family belonging to a large company, and a family belonging to a small business, but in the family there are children who need to be cared for. - Okay, great! It has already been said that it applies only to establishments with more than 20 employees. In German this means: for a farm with at least 21 employees. 20 employees are not enough – to clarify this too! – but at least 21 employees need it, and this number of 21 employees must be achieved permanently and calculated over the year, otherwise it means if it is only short-term: Bad luck, dear wife or dear man! Second point: Three years of company membership. – Okay, this regulation has also been slightly improved. Third point – and I really wonder what happened to you – is: If the other family partner, partner or partner is on Karenz, there is no right to part-time. Why not? Now, imagine the following very realistic case: It has a woman having a child and demanding a karenz period, and the other partner wants to claim his right to part-time because of the first child. - I can't do that! Prohibitions! That's what you're forbidding! Why? For what practical reason? There would have to be a compatibility or possible. But they say: If one is on karenz, the other can't work part-time! [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] Mr Federal Minister, you can say this right! The other point: I spoke earlier about different deadlines. You should say that clearly, if you want to! In Austria we have a two-year leave period and a child care allowance, which usually applies 30 months to the woman plus six months for the other partner. That's what it's supposed to be! We now have a right to part-time, which can be used after a karenz period or a child care phase. Only: If the woman was previously employed and now wants to live out the child care phase of 30 months, then she has had a bad luck, then she falls into a termination period hole because the term of protection after the karenz period, because the termination protection ends after two years and four weeks and begins from the right to partial protection at the earliest four months before arrival. [[Abg. Steibl: That's not true!]] So if the woman wants to claim child care allowance for 30 months, she falls into a termination period gap. That's a huge problem! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! You should have so much courage to tell the women: If you want to continue to get busy, you have bad luck in child care, then you can't use it to the full, we don't want it! [[Abg. Steibl: That's not true!]] You're not saying that! They indirectly favour either the complete home stay, as you offer the full financial incentive, but if the woman wants to go part-time after the karenz, she must at least give up child care money for a few months so that she can work part-time and can't be terminated. – I think that is in principle wrong! They should be so honest and say to mothers and fathers in Austria: We have a huge problem if you stay in Karenz for too long or in the childcare phase! In our opinion, you should start part-time earlier, we favor this! However, they do not favour this, but they still favour the maximum duration of the childcare allowance if you stay at home. – That’s the wrong approach! It also continues in this law once again. Ladies and gentlemen! That is why we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] It all sounds awfully bureaucratic, but the deadlines, as I said, are a hammer. There must be a permanent scheduler for the woman so that she doesn't step in. You could regulate this much easier – even more easily than in this our amendment proposal – but you would only have to jump over these ideological obstacles for you and set notice protection at the karenz phase instead of two years and four weeks to two years and two months, i.e. by five weeks. Then the women would not fall into the hole with the notice periods. But you don't want that, you can't, because you obviously prefer the women to stay at home. It would be better to introduce part-time work for all under supported circumstances and thus make child and occupation more compatible.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e6736	The amendment tabled by Mr Karl Oellinger, Mr Sabine Mandak, colleagues and colleagues has been read, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next honourable Member, Mr Mag, is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Kuntzl. Desirable time: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e6763	Ladies and gentlemen! A right to part-time work for parents of pre-school parents has been the SPÖ's concern for many years, but what we're going to decide today is not a right to part-time, is not the relief that many young parents have presented in this phase of life, but it's just a step in this direction, but that's it anyway. It is important that something moves and continues in this direction. On the one hand, it is not a legal claim. It is still necessary to obtain the employer's consent. Therefore, one cannot speak of a legal claim. It is an agreement, not much better than it could be met today. The second important point is that, through various provisions to be observed, only very few of this right can really be used, especially because, as mentioned above, this claim is linked to the condition that an operating size of more than 20 employees must exist. Take a look at the operating structure in Austria! Then you will see that 92 percent of farms are excluded. That's the point! In addition to this, the three-year membership – you can see the mobility requirements that are applied to the workers! – in addition, the partner cannot be in Karenz. All in all, it seems as if one had concluded the agreement with the economy: We're going to figure it out so much that it's just... There are few people who can take advantage of it. – This is, of course, one of the criticisms of our side, which must continue to be maintained. Thirdly, there is a lack of decisive framework to make this legal claim actually viable: For example, the limit of earnings, i.e. that someone who makes qualified part-time work, can really take advantage of this through a change at the earnings limit. Or the development of childcare facilities. Especially for under three years we lack many childcare places. Even in the opinion of the Chamber of Commerce on this draft law, this point is highlighted and called for the extension of childcare facilities, which the Federal Government has unfortunately fully adopted. In principle, the right to part-time work is very, very important – an important step towards better reconciliation between work and family life, an important step in order to increase the responsibility of fathers who hope to take over young fathers increasingly. We believe that fathers are rather willing to reduce working time a little, rather than get out completely and go to Karenz. This would be an important step in this direction – even for women, because they could return to work earlier. They could stay in the job with a leg, but they would have more time to take care of the child. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] All in all, ladies and gentlemen, our criticisms, which we share with the Green Group, remain true. We have, however, decided hard to agree to this request, because it is a far too small step, but a step in the right direction. [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] Let me add: However, we will put in a very comprehensive amendment to this model – one of my colleagues will do so – in which we will clearly put our model on the table, and you will see what comprehensive action we have presented ourselves with. The second point to be debated here is that of the month of Fatherhood. This too is a very important concern, a concern shared by many young parents. It is simply and simply a matter of giving fathers the opportunity, when a child comes to the world, to release one month in order to be at home in this very important phase of life, in order to build a relationship with the child on the one hand – it is very important that the children can also build a deeper relationship with their fathers and that the fathers support a deeper relationship with their children – and on the other hand, in this intensive phase of change in the family, the woman who has to bear the main burden in this transition phase. Thirdly, men should be able to exercise their role as fathers responsibly. It should not be put on the head in relations which were once held in partnership, at once by the fact that the woman remains at home and the man continues to work, everything is to be put on the head, and it should not relive old role patterns, but it should also be learned in this new phase of life the sharing of educational work, of housework. It is a pity that you have not been able to support this model, but I see it as the beginning of a debate. It takes time, but I need it. Think, too, in many discussions, that the young people are concerned. – We will certainly discuss this issue even more often.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e6855	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Weinzinger. Speaking time: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e6873	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! We are in the next chapter of the political “new talk” of this black and blue federal government and have a right to part-time, which is not a right, and a right that does not apply to all. If your rights look that way, I would prefer you to say goodbye to giving us these rights. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Großruck: Get out of here again, that's a failure!]] The words of the colleague Ridi Steibl, who clearly spoke only of the mothers of grandchildren in her statement, were quite illuminating. [[Abg. Grossruck: She knows what she's talking about!]] I should like to remind the ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ: In addition to the fact that there is a grandchild, a man and a woman are usually necessary, and a family consists of father, mother and child – not usually mother and child, as you see him. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Wattaul: Something new!]] According to our understanding, family would be quite different, but you can't join this. That's the problem. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But that you don't even keep your concept, I already think that's "admirable". I'll hold on to this. The government is obviously only concerned with what mothers can do with children and how much time or opportunities to gain are granted to them. Now you have made a check by taking up a good idea of the opposition from times when it was not even opposition, and packing it in a cosmetic manner. If you introduce a so-called right, which applies to a fraction of the employees – you reduce it to a handful of businesses that meet these criteria, to a handful of people who meet these criteria – and then you add red tape that not even all entitled persons will ever be able to claim their claims, then you will deliberately and deliberately create a minority programme and not a general right to part-time. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What I find remarkable – my colleague, Mr Oellinger, has already explained this in detail – is how you shape your incentives: that is to say, they are becoming almost premeditates and prejudices, as people in Austria have family to live. Instead of flexibilising and saying, in the interests of people, child care and family policies: There are state possibilities for child care, care periods, part-time entitlements that you can organize accordingly, as appropriate to your family understanding and model!, go here and say: Those who are at home with the child shall in no way be reasonably worthy of it; Childcare time and at the same time part-time of the partner does not work, and so on. So they are preoccupied with how they have family life, but not even because it fits your ideological needs in the care, but in reality it is about economic factors. At the last part-session, this made a speaker of your group stone and clear. It is about women not pushing so much into the labour market and making men too competitive there. That's why they'd rather stay home with the children. [[Objection of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] Let's call things by name! I know that doesn't fit into your political “new talk”. But the fact is that you are doing exactly such a policy. [[Abg. Steibl: What does not fit politically is if you really say what it is all about!]] Or tell me where your incentives are for men to do child care and family work more intensively! Where is your great progress in the Father's Care? Where is your great progress in increasing the employment rate of women, especially after child breaks? Where are the measures with which you support women and the few men after re-entering the job? – There is nothing of that! And now I come to the proposal that is being made today to better regulate these compatibilitys. There too, Mr Steibl has put it to the fore. She said that a month of fatherhood would not really be in question; it would be a depression for the economy to stop men of childbearing age if I understood it correctly. [[Abg. Steibl: No, I didn't say that!]] I immediately believe you are aware of this, but, Mrs Steibl, the reverse is also clear: They think that women alone should bear the risk that they won't find a job because they might have children. A man isn't reasonable, you'll find. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I think parenting is a shared task of fathers and mothers, and both should be able to share both the care tasks and the risk that this obviously means to some in the labour market. I do not see in my best mind why both the work and the risk are practically stored at 95 to 100 percent among women. This may be your policy, but that is not my understanding of how modern family policy looks, and it is certainly not in the interest of women who still have to bear the main burden of childcare and family work. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Finally, still for the father's protection month. – I find this term a bit wrong, because I do not want to protect the father, I want to involve the father. I would like to have a father's participation or father's leave. In any case, it is about the fact that with the birth of the child not only the mother actively takes over her mother's role, but also the father can actively structure his father's role and the family structure. Of course, this cannot work if a part is forced to be absent. I also find it relatively strange that for more days you get exemption than for the birth of a child. This is your family policy: Whoever relocates, assigns more effort to work than when someone becomes a father! [[Abg. Grandruck: Father goes faster than overschedule!]] I am therefore very strongly in favour of introducing such a paternity leave. I would like to see even clearer incentives than those contained in the SPÖ proposal to increase the motivation of the fathers so that they can actually use them this month. And I would definitely propose to the government not only to carry out flexibilization policy where it fits their business, but also where it brings something to families, young parents, men and women in this country, for example in the distribution of child care periods, periods, parental leave and so on. Flexibility is needed so that family and profession can be better lived for both parents, can be lived in both directions, and can finally keep a modern family policy in that country in place and not continue to pursue your women's-back-to-herd policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e7058	The next speaker is Mrs Rosenkranz. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e7087	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! For years, we've heard, it's SPÖ's concern to create parental regulations. – We note with satisfaction: So it needed this government to see your wishes implemented. And in fact, it is a very remarkable measure to improve the compatibility of work and family, in that it is not only a matter of creating childcare facilities to move the educational tasks of the family a little into society, but also of making the working world more family-friendly. Because – and this is what we see in all countries that make a successful family policy –: It is always a variety of measures that lead families to realize their children's desires. The sole call for childcare facilities, especially for very small children, is not – I would like to hold this here – the crucial point. Take a closer look at family policy in the Nordic countries and in France! The family policy of this government and, above all, the Freedom Party has a totally pragmatic approach. First of all, we note: It must always be a bundle of measures. Family policy, of course, is a cross-sectional matter and therefore needs solutions in many areas. And above all, it cannot make regulations, but must be oriented to the needs of young parents. That is also what we mean by freedom of choice. What young parents want is quite undisputed from all studies. According to a highly representative study, the Gisser study, on the question of what young parents would choose in compatibility model, they could do without economic constraints, 8 percent of young parents – men and women hardly differ there – say they would like to be fully employed if the children are not yet schooled; 42 percent say they would like to work part-time, and at least 50 percent – and that must be said – say they would like to care for their pre-school children at home. For these 42 percent who would opt for part-time work, a very, very good regulation has been adopted here. They have said themselves that this is an improvement for all, even for those who work in small businesses. The statement that this is only a handful of people who benefit from it is, of course, completely wrong: Although 92 percent of businesses are small businesses – with less than 20 employees – the number of employees is of course much higher in large businesses. It is therefore very, very, very good for many people, especially because of the fact that in the three years of the day – and this is a difference to the rules that have been created under your government – the karenz time must also be taken into account. It is therefore a comprehensive scheme, and after the two-year evaluation period, it will be established how it works. And you'll be the same as the child care allowance: You will polemize at the beginning, then you will slow down a little bit and make constructive amendments because you will notice that it meets the needs of your parents. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] However, it is also important – and politics, of course, is a matter of practical implementation – that those who have to play along also play. In this respect, it will not be useful to pool against the economy, but it will be important to have the economy in the boat. And I believe that there are also many companies that recognize that it is good to have satisfied employees who recognize – they are not only businessmen, but also citizens of a community – that a society that no longer has such structures that children can grow up can, of course, in the long term have no success in economic terms. In this respect, it has been right to conclude a compromise and an agreement here with the economy. You can't do it otherwise. Moreover, this would also be a boomerang for young people, because it would be easy – and we always experience it as a warning – an attitude barrier. And well meant is the opposite of good. So it really made sense to talk to the economy. A word about Fatherhood. – Since your ideological bias to allow no differences at all, to force equality everywhere, has played a bit of a strike. I'm just referring to the name: Fatherhood protection for months, as it were, parallel to mother protection shows that you didn't fully understand what it was all about here. Motherhood protection, of course, serves to give a woman, after the birth of a child, the opportunity to recover and experience this very sensitive phase of the first days and weeks as positive for the relationship between mother and child. My dear colleagues from the SPÖ! It is not a burden to be taken from women, but the close attachment of the child to the mother in the first months is a privilege of women! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] So that we don't misunderstand each other: I find it wonderful that we could afford that the young father, together with the mother, enjoys the newborn child 24 hours a day. If that's possible, it's reasonable. Just, for the father's involvement in child rearing, that really won't do much. There are other possibilities that are more realistic and reasonable, for example half-year's childcare allowance, which is paid only if the care changes. [[Call the SPÖ:What?]] This is, for example, a measure that can certainly lead fathers to take care of the duties of care. I am pleased to hear from you how important the father is to the child's education. I absolutely share your opinion. Especially when the child is older in puberty, it can be really important. I would just like you to consider the importance of marriage, of successful marriage, even a little higher and put your policy in this direction. No question: The father is extremely important to the family. Summa summarum is this law, which is present here today, a great improvement for the situation of young families; it is realistic; the economy is involved. – I think it’s a good day for family with children.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e7163	Now, Mr Bartenstein, Federal Minister, has spoken. – Please, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e7188	Thank you, Mrs. Women's Minister, for the micro! Mr President. Mrs Family State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that we are able to represent parental leave in the trio of the government today. As Mrs Kuntzl said, it is an important step in the right direction. This is an important step towards more family-friendliness in the world of work. Dear Mrs Mandak! I mean, the glass is well filled, and we can find a good act of law – that's what separates us. [[Abg. Mandak: It's not whisky, it's water inside!]] But at least admit that a little bit in the glass is inside. In that case, I would even start with water, which has already been the subject of the debate several times today: clean Austrian drinking water – and it will remain. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! However, the compatibility of family and work is clearly a question that has to do with the working world, since it is obvious that employers and employees are involved in it, considering their interests. This is, in fact, the original thing about the social partners. In my opinion, one would now make a legal claim, with the employer not even being asked, that would be completely absurd! It would also be the most absurd thing to do against the interests of women and mothers, in some cases also the fathers – hopefully more frequent – who do not agree as the first measure. Finally, Mrs Kuntzl, there is a legal claim. They agree to the proposal – I thank you for that. I think it's a little a pity that you're doing it hard. [[Call the SPÖ:Had you made it easier for us!]] We do it with a happy heart! We think it's a very good template. But be it. We also thank you for your “heavy heart” – as you have formulated it – consent given. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The limit of 20 workers – or, as honourable Members said, the rule that this provision should be applied from 21 January. Workers apply; in this he is right, in many other points not – is a border that is born from reality. The situation in a small company is now different with regard to flexibility and the possibility of letting someone go in part time and finding a replacement for it from today to tomorrow. [[Abg. Head: How are they supposed to know?]] This needs to be taken into account – apart from knowing the business practice and knowing that in small businesses, there is a lot that needs to be done in large businesses with appropriate rules. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] In addition, of course, you have to ask yourself: Is it permissible to develop a regulation for the labour market now – this legal requirement exists in only a few European countries – or do we not regulate something into the labour market, which in turn takes flexibility and actually harms the labour market? I mean, we've found a reasonable means here. We have, of course, put it in the foreground that agreement should first be reached. Then there is the goal of achieving a comparison – although judicial, but still – and only at the end of the day, ladies and gentlemen, will the employer have to file a complaint against the employee. If you ask me, I say: These will be individual cases. Look Take the holiday arrangements! Even in the holiday area – the situation there is very similar, not quite the same, but very similar – there is a need for agreement between the employee and the employer – and the agreement is reached in almost all cases. Only very, very few cases become contentious, and so it will be in this case. Thank you, Mrs Rosenkranz – you are aware of what you are talking about – for saying that the three-year deadline, especially by means of an amendment, is even clearer, in the sense that karenz times are counted. As Mrs Steibl has made very clear: Our numbers are right – yours is not yours again, unfortunately. It is true, Mrs Kuntzl, that 92 percent of Austrian businesses have fewer than 20 employees, which means that only 8 percent of the companies are affected. But please also say that in these 8 percent of businesses, 74 percent of the employees are employed, i.e. almost three quarters! If one now takes into account the fact that not all, but almost all of the workers employed there will de facto be entitled to claim, then we come to the number which Mrs Steibl has already told the House. We assume that about two thirds of workers will be entitled to entitlement to parental leave. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Let me also refer to Mr Ollinger's comment: What can the child do for Mother or Father to work in a company with less than 20 employees? – Apart from the fact that there are also improvements there, I now turn to you on this question, even if you are not in the hall – but I am sure that you will get it oriented –: This is, of course, an aspect to be taken into account from an employer's point of view and, accordingly, in the sense of a balance of interests between the one and the other, the limit of 20 employees is quite useful. Regarding what you give us – you do it again and again, but you don't have the right to do it any more than before – that is, that we wanted women to stay at home: Mr Oellinger, and also Mrs Weinzinger, who has said the same thing, who has cleared up the de facto ban on working with the karenz money? For years and decades there was a de facto ban on careers: Those who had to take care of karenz money were excluded. It was the limit of lowness, and more did not go. – We have now introduced, with the childcare allowance, at least a commitment limit that allows for part-time work – not in all, but in many cases! And we have brought about a separation between the treatment and the possibility to earn child care money. So if You use this for yourself, then you say that child care money in particular has made a quantum leap in terms of more compatibility between family and profession, on more freedom of choice of young parents. And finally, we want to have the decision there – not the legislator and not any groups. The young families are smart enough to do what they think is right. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm allowed to sum up: From my point of view, this glass is well filled. This is an important step towards greater family-friendliness in the world of work. It is part of an overall concept, a strategic concept for more family-friendliness in our working world, which this German government has written itself in its programme under Chancellor Schüssel and Vice-Cancellor Gorbach. Mrs Haubner, Minister of State, Mr Rauch-Kallat and I are very happy that we can represent this important project in front of you today.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e7263	I call Mrs Stadler. The watch is gladly set to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e7281	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! [[The speaker places a table with the ÖVP logo and the inscription “Familiesweltmeister Österreich”, “parent part time” on the speaker’s desk.]] I agree with the words of my colleague, Mrs Rosary, when I say as a family politician: Today is a good day! With the right to part-time, which we will decide today, another important step has been taken towards family-friendly Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The ÖVP/FPÖ government has begun to strengthen our families. I can make this family package happen again: With child care money that finally created justice – it is not that injustice now exists, but now justice exists for all women and all mothers! – in the family hospice, in increasing family support, in the family package in the tax reform, in the family package for women in the pension reform, and in many others, the strengthening of the family has always been a priority, because – and I say so – this federal government knows that strong families mean a strong state because strengthening the families means strengthening all of us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] With this right to part-time, the possibility of finally requiring a partnership with one another in child care is provided. I think this partnership wants to have young families. Young families do not want only a part to go to childcare, but both parents want to participate – and childcare is an addition. I would also like to say that: Child care should never be a substitute for parental care, but it should be a supplement to it. We will find a good solution together with the countries. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] As far as Mr Kuntzl's many reservations are concerned, I would like to say that I am very pleased that you agree this time, but you say 'yes, but'. She's the one who's got it. She's the one who's got it. Unfortunately, in your time of government, they have said “yes, but” too often. To discuss it and not to take any action, now to criticize the fact that the steps are too small and not to take a step of their own – that is not a solution! They have said “yes, ” too often! But young families do not need “yes, but”, but young families need actions, young families need framework conditions, young families need a family-friendly Austria. – We create foundations, we create the basis for a family-friendly Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] To criticise some representatives of the opposition that there is no right in businesses of less than 20 employees: First of all, it must be said that there is also the right of under 20 employees to have the option of part-time until the fourth birthday of each child. Our Federal Minister Bartenstein has already mentioned it: Especially in small businesses it is much, much easier to work together in a partnership. I also believe that it is our responsibility as a government party to achieve a certain feasibility together with the economy. And this too is to be done in partnership, because jobs will be, please, not made by politics, but jobs create our economy! I therefore think that it is right to vote with our economic representatives, and I am also grateful for the willingness of the economic representatives to do so, that there has been feasibility here and that we have found a good solution. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] Perhaps another comment on the criticism, the reliability – and then the feasibility – is missing: If something is not feasible, then you are not reliable. But people need the reliability of the Federal Government! And with this implementation, we will be reliable for our young families. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The ÖVP wanted and wants to provide a basis for young families in the future. We never want to take everything away from them, but we only want to give them the framework conditions for a partnership. The whole family package – and thus this right to part-time – is a solid basis for young families according to the principles of feasibility, reliability and justice!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e7375	Mrs Sburny spoke in favour of an actual correction. Please reflect the facts to be corrected, compare the facts and observe the time to speak! Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e7397	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In his speech, Minister Bartenstein said that 74 percent of the employees are affected by this new scheme, namely, in the 8 percent of businesses with more than 20 employees. - That's wrong! Rather, it is true that 67 percent of men and only 62 percent of women are affected by this new scheme in farms with more than 20 employees.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e7424	Mrs Binder. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e7444	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, a few words about this parental part-time scheme: I am also of the opinion, like my colleague Kuntzl, that this part-time scheme can only be a start for parents, because it is clear that the barriers and obstacles in this area are still very, very large, that there are still women and men excluded from this scheme, and - which has made me very concerned - that above all there is also a strong urban-land gap, especially when it comes to large corporations and individual locations in the rural area are then considered as small businesses. We are in favour of accepting the current decision of this regulation, but we believe that improvements still need to be made. Because the Minister said that this right to part-time work for parents was equal to the right to vacation, I would like to say: I think there is already a substantial difference, Mr Minister, because I am discussing with my employer when I can go on vacation, but not whether I can go on vacation – and the part-time arrangement is about whether I can even take advantage of this part-time. Mrs. Rosenkranz – she is not in the hall right now – has meant that we must address the needs of the parents of young parents. – I am of this opinion, too. The only problem is that there are legislative decisions that ignore people's needs and exclude many parents from this right. And for the second: There is already an amendment to improve this part-time work. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen: The subject I would like to deal with is our request for the Father's Protection Month. To this end, I would like to say a comment on Mrs Weinzinger: If the word is alone, you can discuss this. In essence, I think it is about how the content looks, and I am disappointed by the opposition of the government parties – where disappointment is not a political criterion, but your strict no and your rejection of our proposal to discuss it makes me very concerned and once again shows me how your family kindness is really meant and how you really stand for partnership and family kindness. [[Abg. Dolinschek: This is a money question, Mrs Colleague!]] It is interesting in this context that many child and family organisations have joined this proposal and our demand for a month of fatherhood protection. All the more incomprehensible to me is your dissenting attitude. Your willingness to discuss here is also relatively low. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Rosenkranz said: Father's protection, what's that? – I think it is also necessary for mothers to be able to let go and also to grant the fathers part of the care and care work of children. It is to be thanked to the Austrian children's friends that they have launched the initiative for this fatherly protection month. We Socialists and Socialists have welcome this initiative. Finally, a number of points on the question of what this request is about: It's about a father's active role. It is about increasing the father's participation in family work. Above all, it is also about relief and assistance for women, about getting into a harmonious family life and, from our point of view, about the loving relationship between fathers and mothers to the child or to the children. The Paternity Month would be an opportunity in the sense and in the interest of the children and also of the fathers and mothers. One is a request that is rejected today, but, ladies and gentlemen, I can assure you: We are not satisfied with this rejection, and we will continue to work on our goal, namely the introduction of a month of Fatherhood!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e7490	As next speaker, Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Ahleitner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e7508	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Mrs Binder, of course, it is also a great concern of the liberals that fathers be more involved in childcare. I see this as a very good opportunity, especially in the evaluation of the childcare allowance, to examine these measures more closely, including in the financial field, and possibly to come up with a solution to include fathers in family and child labour. Now to the Part-Time Act: I am sorry that the opposition and, in particular, the Greens do not want to see this new parental leave rule being a very good step towards a better reconciliation of family and profession. Especially in this law, I think, a very good balance between legal claims and incentives has been found. It would not be good and it cannot be that legal improvement can lead to disadvantages or possibly even to a boomerang for workers and, in particular, for women. We need to look at reality: On the basis of an internal agreement, an agreement between workers and between employees and employers, it can only be achieved on the basis of a meaningful and successful part-time work. It is also true that there is a very close cooperation between employers and employees in small businesses, since it is certainly not beneficial if one has to carry out the work in a situation where one carries out a dispute with one another. This can certainly not be very beneficial for the operating climate! The conclusion is: Part-time work must be viable! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This is what I recently confirmed to me by a trader in Upper Austria who employs five employees in both part-time and flexible working time models. It meant that it can only work if all employees play well with each other and with the employer, because only then can this living part-time be successful. There are statistical data that part-time models work better in such small businesses than in large businesses, so I think it is good that a real right to part-time is now possible in larger businesses. In particular, I would like to stress that the incentives for this are very beneficial to small businesses. For example, the grants for re-entry women are certainly an important tool for successful women's employment, and the grants for internal business organisation and job facilities enable small businesses to improve their infrastructure. Ladies and gentlemen! The compatibility of family and profession must not be exclusively a women's theme. And I see, especially in the simultaneous use of part-time, a possibility also for fathers to be more involved in family work. Of course I also appeal to all representatives of the economy here in the House: Please help create a consciousness, create a common awareness that employees working part-time or working flexible working hours are no disadvantage to a business, do not be de-motivated for businesses and are not put into chains by them! In fact, it is precisely those employees that bring much more for a business, as they can bring high satisfaction, higher motivation and thus higher work performance. Ladies and gentlemen! I see this model as another offer to improve the compatibility of family and work, and I appeal again to colleagues from the Greens: Do you recognize that this bill is a massive improvement to the current legal situation and you agree to this law?
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e7566	Mrs Haubner spoke next. - Please, Mrs. State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e7584	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen in the government! I should also like to mention briefly today's decision on parental leave. It has been addressed by a speaker who is honest: Honesty in family policy! Honesty is generally a much-conjured category in politics. And I say it in the throes of conviction that Austrian family policy is a genuinely honest policy based on the fact that parents are able to exercise their responsibility based on the freedom of choice for parents – which model of life they want to choose with their children – and that it is a policy that is characterized by a positive attitude towards children in our society. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] And this honest family policy is not exclusively for mothers, for women! This Austrian family policy therefore sets out various policies to take into account the life planning of couples. A range of different possibilities is offered so that mothers and fathers have the necessary room for design, which corresponds to their individual ideas. In addition to the important financial incentives – and as a basis here, the childcare allowance – in addition to many other support and support for our families, in addition to tax relief, I only remember that with 1. In July 2004 one of the largest family tax packages came into force and, in particular, relieves families with several children – in addition to social security for family work – which no one has ever thought of anchoring a few years ago – and in addition to all these measures, there is a particular need for partnership initiatives to ensure freedom of choice – so also freedom of choice, To bring children’s desire and employment into a hat, so to speak, to strengthen. All of this will not go without the working world being made more family-friendly. Today's decision on parental leave is, I think, very much about time. I would have expected in the last ten years – under a social-democratic government, which verbally has always been very strongly committed to the reconciliation of family and work – that parental leave would be made a subject that would have been decided upon by Parliament. In any case, with this parent age today, we have a good offer from politics together with the economy that will ultimately benefit everyone. It benefits businesses because they have satisfied employees and above all because they employ women who do not necessarily have to leave their working life during the family period and thus are not lost as qualified employees. The parents benefit from this because they have the opportunity to devote more time to their children through parental leave, because time is still the most important resource for keeping the family together socially. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I believe that this will benefit the children in particular. In the whole discussion about the parental age, the children just get a little too short. We're discussing, we're talking about parents having this opportunity, but we're hardly talking about what it's doing to the children. Children bring it time, it brings it, it brings parents who can listen to them, for it is after a long working day when their parents come home tired, often something that is very rare for our children. These agreements, which we decide today – and I am pleased that at least three parties agree to this draft – include more than the government programme. The government programme provided for the right to part-time for businesses of 20 or more employees. I believe that good negotiations have created opportunities for smaller businesses, and therefore for their employees, to achieve a significant improvement in the current legal situation. I should just like to mention two examples: Parents can now go in part-time at the same time and, above all, the karenz period is also included in these three years. Therefore, for me, parental leave is a very important measure for the family and part of a new family policy corporate culture. To restore the comparison with the water glass: I think the water glass is very strong, because the parent age is only a part, and many other measures are already included in this water glass. I am sure that at the end of this legislative period, this water glass will almost pass over for the families. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] A short while ago, in accordance with the request of the Socialist Group: I don't think it's about protecting fathers, but it's about giving fathers the opportunity to actively participate in the development of their child. And we also created these with the childcare allowance and with the six months provided that the referee can change twice over time. In order to strengthen the debate on the importance of fathers in this area and also to put it on a good basis, we should consider – I am considering this in the context of the evaluation and optimization of child care money – whether it is not It is possible to prefer one of these six months and offer the fathers – if they really want it – that they can take a month of care at the same time as the mother with regard to the child care allowance for themselves. The fathers want to show us the latest figures: In 2001, some 1600 fathers took care of child care and child care, since yesterday we know the latest figures: There are now already 3 900 fathers! You see, the wish is there, but we need to further improve the framework conditions. I think all that fathers get many chances that fathers will be offered accompanying measures in order to be able to “live” the family, but I do not think much of it when we are constantly talking about commitments, because family and children are not only a commitment but a great opportunity for each one of us, they are something very happy and beautiful! [[New congratulations to the liberals and to representatives of the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to thank you very much for the intensive discussion, cooperation and cooperation also across party borders, which have led us to adopt this law today. I hope that in Austria, too, we will come slowly to the point that there is consensus in family policy that we see family policy not only ideologically colored – here the conservative, since advanced family policy – but rather, as in all other countries, consensus on this. A special example of this is France, which is always cited by all as the parade country. In France, there has been a broad consensus for years when it comes to improving families. Today's contribution in the form of parental leave and the fact that the big opposition party is also involved is a reason for me to hope that we will reach this consensus in Austria in further steps in family policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e7690	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Long rider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e7709	Estimated ladies on the government bank who so charmingly support our Minister of State! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to follow up on the statements made by our Secretary of State. [[The speaker presented a paper entitled “ÖVP – Family World Champion Austria – Family Aids” on the speaker’s desk.]] When we talk about family in the government party ÖVP, we actually mean life and especially the life of our children. The child-friendliness of a society measures itself on the one hand on the offer of childcare, the entire infrastructure, family policy services and, finally, on the better compatibility of work and family. Many studies show that there is a link between the supply of infrastructure – that is, whether you find enough facilities – and the willingness to have children. We also know that the birth rate in Austria is not satisfactory. What does that mean to me? We need an offer of babysitting! Only when the women and men can rely on them to care for The decision to have a child in spite of a job is greatly facilitated. And we also need transfer services for the second time! No question that one or another of course must also be supported by the state. And so there is, for example, more family support on the table. But the biggest challenge for us, ladies and gentlemen, is to show variants of how we can reconcile work and family and bring it into balance. If one can believe Eurostat, the EU Statistical Office, then in many of the Member States studied, i.e. those whose data have been requested, the probability that someone is employed in part-time is greater in couples with children than in childrenless couples. It is therefore of course important to recognise the need for better compatibility between work and family as a whole more and better. But what do I say? – The social approach is to have children and to find a family-friendly society. That is the decisive thing for me! [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] Whether the Paternity Month, which is also under negotiation today, is sufficient for this, is another question. There is no question that he is a good approach. The emotional bond between the father and the child is a bearing and important. All this isn't a question for me! However, I don't know whether four weeks are enough. I believe that, as the Secretary of State outlined, flexibility is, of course, crucial, that this should be done or must be done at what time. We should also be more concerned about those things that concern children and young people, not only about more leisure activities, but also about better provision of childcare facilities, as far as possible, but also about things that make us more concerned, such as measures against violence in the family. Finally, a better compatibility of work and family offers parents more time and flexibility to deal with the children. Congratulation to the ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats – even if it is painful – for them to join our request. Unfortunately, no compliment on green politics. It has failed to go along with us for factual reasons, but perhaps also for tactical reasons. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e7782	Mr Krainer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e7800	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I did not have the impression that the ladies are present on the government bank to “do a charming society” to the Minister, but they are here because they are doing their work here and because they are important here. Just as wrong it would be to say that Bartenstein is only present for charming reasons. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Although: Minister Bartenstein is already striking. Whenever it comes to demanding flexibility for workers in favour of businesses, it is in the first line. When it comes to increasing the availability of provisions for the unemployed, it is also in the first row. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein and Abg. May. Molterer: But that was a social partners agreement!]] But when it comes to demanding flexibility from the entrepreneurs in the interests of the common good, it withdraws and acts only as a braker. But flexibilization can't be a one-way road, that's something that has to go in both directions. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Mrs State Secretary, speaking here of a milestone, of large casts, is far missing. It is a small step in the right direction, but certainly not anymore. It would have been a milestone or a great throw if we decided here and today the “papa month. ” That would be something that would really have deserved the term “great throw. ” What are you doing with this proposal? – Without much discussion, he will be rejected. We Socialists must be accused of operating fundamental opposition. In reality, however, we agree with more than half of your proposals and proposals. – How is that the other way round? How many applications from the opposition did the government agree to? One, two in the whole GP? If at all, I can only remember once in the overall GP that the government parties have agreed to proposals from the opposition. In reality, the fundamentalists are sitting on the government bank and in the ranks of the small coalition. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But back to the subject. The “papa month” already exists in some European countries – for example in France, Sweden has already been mentioned – and this has been very successful. This month, the fathers have the opportunity to have enough time in the first weeks after birth to work together with the mother on the new role of being a father. This is important, because we all know: Being a father is not difficult, but Father is very much. Col. Amon can certainly also sing a song of that it is the greatest in the life of a man to become a father. The “papa month” would be the opportunity to stop. However, the “papa month” also offers the possibility to relieve the mother in the first weeks after birth, if she is certainly not yet 100 percent powerful. It offers the opportunity to overcome personal fears: Can I even provide such a little thing? He offers a number of other options, such as the possibility of more effort for older children who may suffer from the fact that the mother has less time in the first weeks after birth, because she has to care for the newborn child. There are a number of reasons why this paternal protection month or “papa month” would be reasonable. But above all, it is something like an initial inflammation from the “papa month” to the life papa. This is something that proves to be true in Sweden, for example. In Sweden, ten times as many fathers as in Austria use the possibility of karenz, and with one reason: because they have this initial inflammation of the “papa month”. Sweden – not only because there is this “papa month”, but also because there are child care facilities and many other things more just this “papa month” – has a significantly higher birth rate than Austria. It is particularly incomprehensible in this context that you have deleted the possibility of part-time leave, because they have taken advantage of the majority of fathers. In this area, the highest growth rates have been recorded in the number of those fathers who use the karenz. I don't know why you deleted this. It only shows one thing: That's what you're Politics often exactly the opposite of what you pretend to represent or want to achieve. We have only recently learned this from the pension cuts that you had to take back. It's a shame that we're just taking a small step today, not creating the big throw, but I'm assuming that the population will notice that too. If you don't learn from the elections and don't even notice that something is wrong in your policy, you'll soon be unable to make politics, because then the other will do. Then we'll do that, and then there'll be the big throw again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e7888	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. He's got the word for about 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e7906	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. State Secretary! Mr Krainer, you can put the latte up so high that you can't get over it anymore. You can demand more and more, it's just like that. Examples from the Scandinavian states, where the childcare allowance you have initially criticized has been introduced – today you no longer criticize it so much, but only vaguely – to bring it in, I must say: There are, of course, a lot of things that one can look away from other countries and that one can introduce to us, but only the funds must be available for that. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Mrs Colleagues, I believe we are all working to make it better for families in Austria because of our social policy. So I'm with my colleague Krainer, who says flexibilization can't be a one-way street. However, on your request concerning a month of fatherhood protection, I must say the following: There is a lack of the demand for a payment, and therefore the Austrian fathers with the already possible care exemption of twice fourteen days are actually much more served than with your request. What's that supposed to do? – This is not an improvement, but rather a deterioration. We also need to create the financial conditions for this. In addition, there is a biological difference between male and female in the first eight weeks after the birth of a child. That's the way it is. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: This is not just the case in the first weeks!]] Undisputed, of course, is that this right to parental leave is a family-political achievement that makes family and profession more compatible, giving parents a substantial freedom of choice and freedom of choice. But I do not hide – and I have said this again and again; Mrs Silhavy knows exactly what is coming; [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy]] Mrs Silhavy, you know very well, just as the Secretary of State, I have often discussed this problem with her – that it would have been preferable if there had been no restriction on the number of employees, but all had been treated equally, because I believe that part-time work has nothing to do with the number of persons employed in the holding, but with the specific activity of these workers. This is my opinion. The current regulation at least means having the foot in the door! An important compromise has been achieved. In establishments with more than 20 employees, there is now this right to part-time up to school entry or to the seventh year of the child's life. In smaller establishments, this is possible if there is an operating agreement, otherwise up to the fourth year of the child's life. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is, in any case, a further arrangement than agreed in the Government Agreement. In fact, there was no such provision for businesses with less than 20 employees. What steps will be needed, what will still be improved, that will show time. We can review this matter again and again, but I am convinced that it is important that we first have a foot in the door – otherwise you would not agree. They criticize certain parts of this template. It would have been better for me, too, but it is right for me to begin with. The policy task is to create framework conditions to ensure that this right to part-time and return in full-time in the individual establishments is also possible. The right to part-time is therefore an important step and necessary to eliminate the illusion of the professional person available around the clock. That's something very important. This illusion must be out of the minds. We must live this right, too. The parent age offers incentives for both parents – they can spend more time for their children – as well as for entrepreneurs – they have motivated, satisfied employees. With this right to part-time work, in principle everything has been done to reconcile work and family as well as work and career and family.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e7967	Mrs Höllerer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e7985	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's decision making of the right to part-time is taking a very important step towards the compatibility of family and profession. The Federal Government thus continues the family-political success balance, which it has already written in the past. I am thinking, for example, of the childcare allowance – which has already been mentioned today – which at last ensures fair financial support for parents and children during this care period. I am thinking, above all, of family hospice, and I am also thinking of strengthening the incomes of families through the tax reform. All these measures have been taken by this Federal Government to secure our families, and above all they contribute to the well-being of our children in the families. If we are talking about a right to part-time, it is also natural that these new work models, which arise here, need a corresponding guarantee in childcare. I am thinking, for example, of flexible and need-oriented childcare, which is also supported accordingly by the Federal Government – support not only when it comes to childcare in the kindergarten and in the hortens, but also when it comes to care by day mothers. In this context, I would like to draw attention to the measures taken by Mrs Federal Minister Elisabeth Gehreranweis, who has already announced that there will be 10,000 more places for the afternoon care of schoolchildren by the year 2006. The right to parental leave will make it possible for women, in particular, to make it easier for them to work at work in the family, but there is also a chance for fathers to participate in this care work. So this is a very important measure that is being put in place. It is true that, in practice, it is still the case that women in particular do family work, but this freedom of choice, which is also created by this new part-time scheme, will in future also allow the fathers to be involved in the care work of their children. This new law, which has been said by everyone, makes it possible for workers to work part-time in those establishments in which more than 20 employees are employed, and at least two thirds of the employees in such establishments are employed in Austria and are therefore entitled to this new part-time scheme after the implementation of this law. I know very well the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises and therefore I know that it is much more difficult for these companies to meet staff dispositions in a very short time; they can usually not respond immediately to such a situation. This concerns mainly small and medium-sized enterprises, which have their rural establishments – businesses which, of course, have to be fully competitive and therefore have to make work processes optimal. But especially in these small businesses, which are mostly family-owned, there is a special contact between employees and employers and thus there is certainly a much easier agreement on these part-time possibilities. It is obvious, for reasons of fact, that the scheme, as it has been before, will continue to be maintained for small and medium-sized enterprises in the future. At this point, I would like to express my thanks to the economy for having been involved in this project and for supporting the creation of this opportunity – and that it is also possible to install incentive systems so that even small businesses can enable their employees to make these part-time schemes possible. A short while ago, even at SPÖ, a uniform “wording” has not yet been established. Some speak of a “father protection month” there; Mr Krainer spoke of a “papa month”. – I mean: Fathers, when a child comes to the world, really do not need “protection”; rather, the mothers need a recovery phase. In general, this is a concept that lies on the table, but is unexposed. But of course this is an approach, and of course a discussion will have to take place, but it should already be noted that fathers already have the opportunity to take time for the family after the birth of their child – and, of course, it is also possible for fathers to spend time with their own family and care for their children as part of the childcare allowance. In any case, I think it is a great thing that the Social Democratic Party has taken part in this part-time arrangement, but this is an important step in making family and profession compatible, an important and correct step taken by this Federal Government. I think we are on a good way to shape family policy in Austria in such a way that this child- and parent-friendly.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e8058	The next speaker was Mr Riepl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e8079	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Mrs. State Secretary Haubner, in your previous speech on the SPÖ idea of the Paternity Month, you have indicated that you are obviously thinking of a “detour” with the child care allowance. I would therefore like to ask you, Mrs State Secretary: Are we being involved by the opposition or are we being presented with complete facts? In any event, Mrs State Secretary, I would like to offer you the cooperation of the SP members of the Family Committee, because perhaps something to develop together. In any case, I would like to win you, Mrs State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen! Employers and employees are partners in the economy, we hear this on every occasion. I think that is basically the right thing to do, but the question is whether this partnership is always an equivalent partnership at the company level. Or is it not often the case that the employer is simply the stronger, the dominant, that is, the one who simply buys? An employer, for example, decides autonomously whether he offers part-time jobs on his own initiative. And we often experience that there is a change from full-time to part-time for workers and they cannot do anything. That is why, as I believe, it would have been important to ensure, in the presentation we are discussing here today, that workers have a right without restrictions in connection with this bill. This discussion shows that there are two areas of problem, namely the limitation to an operating size of 20 employees, and a duration of three years' membership. The previous arguments on why this size was included with 20 employees as a basis in this bill, the answers to it, honestly, have not yet been understandable to me. Mr Bartenstein, for example, meant that small businesses would be more difficult to deal with, and in this context such a limit would have to be set. . My question: How will it be with the very small enterprises, for example with branches, for which according to the employment constitution law the company concept does not apply?- Oh, my God! That's where it's going all of a sudden?- Oh, my God! Well, we'll see how this will develop in practice. Nevertheless, it is important that we discuss this proposal here today and also decide, because, as I have said, this is, from my point of view, a too small step, but one in the right direction. I am grateful to honourable Member Sigisbert Dolinschek for his honest words, which relate to the restriction on the size of the farm. I could almost say here: “What can the Sigismund do for...” that there is an employee’s limit? – Actually, nothing, because you, Mr Dolinschek, were not for it if I understood you correctly. But, as a Member of Parliament, it is obviously difficult to stand up against members of the government. This is clear from your statement, Mr Dolinschek. Nevertheless, I believe that for many people what we decide today is simply a “right” because, as a result of all these restrictions, people will not get into the situation at all to actually use this right. So it shows up again: Having it right is one – and getting right is sometimes the other. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to remind you of the ever-increasing number of those who have nothing to do with the possibility of part-time because they have zero-time, i.e. all those who are unemployed. The criticism must already be made that, on the part of this Federal Government, in particular by Mr Bartenstein, the fight against unemployment has been done too little or often the wrong thing has been done. However, we will give our consent to this matter of law.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e8151	The next speaker is Mr Walch. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e8175	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! My colleague, if you always scream, I have to tell you to take more care of yourself. And now, please, watch out! What you haven't enforced for decades for the families in Austria, the FPÖ – and I am delighted to say so – has enforced under a social minister's head, under a State Secretary Uschi Haubner and colleagues from the ÖVP. FPÖ is the most family-friendly party in Austria! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We have enforced the child money – the liberals and the ÖVP! We abolished the professional ban you introduced in Austria. In addition, we have enforced the billing of child rearing times as contribution periods. We have implemented more family aid, and we have given additional money to families with children during the first and second stages of the tax reform. That's family policy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The introduction of the right to part-time work is again a step in the right direction. Of course, one has to negotiate with the employer, of course one has to make a business agreement, of course I would have preferred it if this regulation had already gone from one employee to another, but this is a first step. We have heard today that small businesses with fewer than 20 employees will conclude contracts for part-time work rather than those with a larger number of employees. I am happy that there will be appropriate financial support for these companies. I think that's the right milestone on the way in the right direction. At first, however, this possibility exists only in enterprises with 20 or more employees, and in establishments with less than 20 employees, it can be created under an operating agreement. If employers and employees in establishments with more than 20 employees cannot agree, then there is the possibility of going to the labour court. But you know how it's out there in practice: Everything is feasible when it comes to good cooperation between employers and employees. The possibility of parent-time work is thus a correct step in the right direction. I am only glad that now a government consisting of representatives of FPÖ and ÖVP is in power, because now something is finally being done for the families in Austria. What you've taken away from them, we'll give them back now! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e8236	Mrs Lentsch. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e8254	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! – I find what you do back there very childish. [[The speaker places a table entitled “Familiesweltmeister Österreich – Kindergeld” on the speaker’s desk.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It has been mentioned today, parents of children under seven years of age, or until entry into school, Mrs Kuntzl, will have a right to part-time work in future. The Federal Government is thus setting a further milestone in the Austrian family policy and is at the forefront of Europe. And with the child money you voted against – your voters still cannot believe it – and with this new part-time arrangement, parents can now really decide whether they stay at home with their child, get into the profession, or use this part-time option. This is called compatibility of family and profession. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] From experience we know that many women and increasingly more men like to sit back or switch back in favor of their children. Many do not want to get out of their profession entirely. For all these mothers and all these fathers, this new part-time scheme is an excellent solution. I believe that now the worst critics of this federal government have to see that a lot of positive things are happening here, positive for parents, positive for children and positive for society as a whole. I am thinking of the tax reform, in which a great deal has been done for the families, of family hospice and of increased family support. Finally, many jobs and our entire social system depend on the number of children. This is a fact that we should all be aware of. I hope that in the future I will not see – Mr. Ollinger has already suggested something like this – the 16-Bogen-Plakate, which insists that we want to push the women back to the stove with this action, because the opposite is the case. This new part-time scheme allows many mothers to stay in their profession if they want to, and we place very special value on it by the ÖVP. Women are supposed to decide for themselves, and no one is supposed to be presuming women, neither a party nor a union, for women themselves know best what is good for them. Of course, we have also been careful to ensure that the establishments can carry out this part-time scheme. Therefore, this right exists only in establishments with more than 20 employees and 21 employees respectively. And I think that's positive. 74 percent of all employees work in businesses with more than 20 employees, even if you dispute this number. For smaller businesses, there will be a financial incentive if they enable their employees to work part-time. Let's be honest: What are the most beautiful part-time jobs and part-time schemes for us when we are in bankruptcy?- Oh, my God! Another word for the Father's Month. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition parties! I think it is better to step-by-step measures in family policy, because of course one must also consider funding. What are the best measures we can take if they are not eligible for funding? Finally, I would also like to thank the economy for its welcome.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e8320	The next speaker is Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e8339	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Mrs Haubner, you said in your speech that you would like to promote a positive attitude towards children. – That is what we want too, that is not a monopoly of the government parties! That's what I see at least. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] – But it is not a monopoly of yours! However, it should not be overlooked that the birth rate in Austria is 1.3 children and that this compromise solution, which we will decide on today, will hardly change anything. There is a very meaningful quote from Mrs. Carina Kerschbaumer from the “Small Newspaper”, which writes: “If you still rely on compromises such as your parent age at a rate of 1.3 birth, you decide on half-heartedness. And they are damned to failure." I think this quote reflects very accurately the dilemma of this law, and it is by no means a milestone, but at best a mosaic on the way to the goal. The present government template – which we have heard a few times today – from the outset excludes 77 percent of all employees between 20 and 45 years of age from this legal claim, which is very conditional. I do not think that can be in the sense of the self-appointed family party ÖVP – and not in the sense of the FPÖ family-friendly party, as we have just heard from Mr Walch. Mrs. Rosenkranz mentioned that only 8 percent of parents of children under six years of age want to work full-time. I can only say that I wish the rest of the 92 percent of the parents that they are lucky to work in a farm with more than 20 employees, and that they have been working in this farm for more than three years, because otherwise this wish of the parents will only remain a wish – and the so often quoted freedom of choice remains once again only a keyword of conservative family policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The aim must, however, be to grant all parents the right to parental leave, regardless of the size of the establishment, regardless of their working capacity, and also whether parents are lucky to work in a branch that is close to the headquarters, or who have the wrong to work and live in rural areas. Ladies and gentlemen! The half-heartedness of family policy is also evident to me in the very negative attitude of the economic representatives in the run-up to the discussions. It was said that the legal right to part-time is outside the air from the beginning and that the parent-time work should not lead to any disadvantages, because otherwise it will not succeed in achieving the goal. These statements do not exactly strengthen confidence in the seriousness of the implementation of this bill. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Show that you're taking family policy seriously! Give all families the chance and the right to work and family compatibility! Finally, this is a social problem. I would therefore ask you to: Voices You will agree to our amendment, which I shall now bring to its core points. The amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Andrea Kuntzlund Colleagues on the report of the Family Committee (483) is in its core: Parental time for all parents regardless of the size of the farm and the type of operation, and we also demand a ban on discrimination. Finally, I would like to address a sentence to the economic representatives and also to colleagues Dolinschek, because I think that satisfied, motivated employees are never to the detriment of a company. I think we all agree. And I also think that satisfied, motivated employees are always for the benefit of both sides: the entrepreneurs and also the employees. This should also apply to employees in companies with less than 20 employees.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e8436	The amendment, which has just been presented by the speaker in its broad outlines, is sufficiently supported and stands for negotiation and vote. The written text will be distributed in the meeting room. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e9044	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Scheucher-Pichler. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e9063	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! With the decision-making of the parental leave scheme, I believe that we are taking a right and very important step in the right direction. And I say this quite consciously also as a trader, as an entrepreneur from the point of view of the economy, after there has been too many discussions: I think it's a real step. Mrs. Weinzinger, quite friendly from woman to wife: Parenthood means, of course, the right to part-time work for mothers and fathers. That is just so by the way. The SPÖ – and I find this very encouraging – has decided to agree to this parental leave scheme. Mrs Kuntzl, whom I appreciate as a very constructive colleague, meant that it was a small step. I think it is a very neat step, it is above all a step in the right direction. And I believe that it is positive to say that this is a puzzle – that is, a measure by many; that is what Mrs. State Secretary and Federal Minister Bartenstein pointed out – a puzzle in the overall approach towards more family-friendliness, toward better reconciliation between work and family. And that's the aim of this government. We have, I think, taken very decisive and correct measures in recent years. And for all those who have contributed to this, including the economy, a warm thank you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] A new working world needs new concepts, needs to address the new challenges, including new working hours and changed family structures. I understand, of course, that the economy is also concerned. I know that, especially in small businesses, but also in medium-sized enterprises, this poses major organisational problems, but the economy stands for this. And I mean, we can only solve this with partnership. We can only resolve this in a constructive relationship between the economy, employers and workers. I therefore do not understand why you are discussing this so negatively, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. I think we are taking a very decisive step today, and I also think we should see this positively, we should also convey it positively and transport it positively. I would like to point out that, in most cases, by means of maternity protection and maternity leave, after a few months of work, this has already been mentioned here. three years' residence. That is really not an argument for me. I believe that this measure has really been approved in a positive sense, especially by the economy in the positive sense. However, I would also like to say that it is important, in my opinion, to motivate that it is important to create positive incentives to create voluntary incentives. You can't solve everything just by regulating it. The social partners are also called for to find solutions. And I am confident, especially as a result of the development in recent years, that we will succeed more and more. Support also for those who require additional child care variants – yes! I think that there is a need for the Federation, but also for the countries and communities. Above all, we also need hourly care models, new flexible, creative care models, especially for those fathers and mothers who are in part-time work. There should be child care for hours when needed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] This, of course, costs something, but I also said that everyone is called for, the federal government, the countries and the municipalities. Child care should also be extended. Especially when the care leave is consumed and children are ill, this often poses great problems for working parents. There is also a need for action. There are many ways to solve this with mobile motherhoods, the Flying Nannies, or whatever. Here, too, we should simply think of new ways. Overall, we need constructive solutions. I agree with the Secretary of State and I also believe that the children should be at the centre. The children are always the weakest member, and children need our very special support. And as a whole, we are required as a society to give the best and find the best possible solutions in the interests of the children. Today's decision will contribute to this. A thank you to all those who help to make parental leave possible in Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e9139	The next speaker is Mrs Schönpass. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e9157	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we see it positively. The possibility of parents ’ right to part-time work is a very useful and important measure. We support this government template because it means at least to some of the people concerned an improvement in their living situation. However, the right to part-time work has not yet been concluded by the government parties. The fact that this law should apply only to businesses with more than 20 employees is unfair and drastically restricts the social policy effect of the law. The limit of 20 employees is entirely arbitrary. The next point: For three years, an employee or an employee must have worked at the same company to be entitled to claim this right. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! The professional reality of young people looks different. They are increasingly forced to change jobs. Finally, the labour market requires flexibility. Measures to increase birth rate are constantly being called for. Now you would have the opportunity to design such a measure accordingly. Do you lack courage now? Or do you have to bow to the pressure of the economy? Only a small proportion of employees fulfils the conditions in order to be able to benefit from this right. Nevertheless, there will be a total of more women than men who will take advantage of this offer. They will suffer further disadvantages in social security, as part-time social security contributions will also decrease. [[Abg. Head: That's not right again!]] It is to be feared that in this way the risk of poverty of women will continue to rise. Here you have forgotten to create a compensation, ladies and gentlemen of the government, and those who will be concerned with the law have kept you waiting. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: No!]] The new law should be in place from 1 January. In May of this year, parents have to wait until July. Didn't you want to talk about the subject earlier because you feared election losses in the workers' chamber elections? The necessary flexibility is also lacking in the law. What about the growing number of atypical employment relationships? – You will not have a right to part-time. In practice, the limitation to a one-time change in parental leave will also be too rigid for parents. Fathers could have been actively involved in child care through the possibility to go in part-time immediately from the birth of the child. This possibility too, unfortunately, is missing. This measure is an important but only a small step towards a family-friendly social policy. Unfortunately, in order to actually support the families and, above all, the women, it is still very bleak. We Social Democrats will continue to work to ensure that these gaps are soon closed, under the motto: Right instead of grace!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e9207	The next speaker is Mr Wöginger. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e9226	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! [[The speaker places a table with the title “Familiesweltmeister Österreich/Tax relief for families” on the speaker’s desk.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Yes, I think you like the Taferls, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! By the way: In the works chamber elections in Upper Austria, the greatest gain of the ÖAAB has reached, for your information. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] With the creation of the right to part-time for parents, a milestone is set for the better compatibility of work and family life. This shows once again that this federal government, with the ÖVP at the top, is the best government for our families, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I am particularly pleased for our young citizens, who, through this implementation, receive a further incentive and support to establish families. We know that the compatibility of child and career is a huge challenge and that it is up to us to create the best framework conditions for it. We give mothers and fathers the opportunity to take care of child rearing and yet the foot in To leave working life. Thus, the very important stage of education is better planned, and that is important to us. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As a representative of the rural area with numerous small and medium-sized enterprises, I am concerned to stress that our many employees, who fall under these 20 employees' limits, also have the opportunity to go in part-time work. Each individual can negotiate a part-time model with his employer, or business agreements can be established. This is already happening to a high degree, and through additional support and support, precisely these companies are motivated to provide part-time jobs for their employees, because that means more flexibility. Workers and employers go hand in hand – this is the future! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The right to part-time is another milestone in Austrian family policy. The childcare allowance for all, the family hospice, the extended afternoon care and the tax reform – which you, ladies and gentlemen from SPÖ, unfortunately do not support – are further excellence for our families. A tax relief of about €1.5 billion for all workers, as well as a family package of € 250 million, the increase in the amount of earnings of single earnings to € 6 000, the additional amount of children's allowance of € 130, 175 and 220 depending on the number of children and the wage tax relief for all employees, which means between €30 and €50 per month more in the money box: these are family policies that support our families substantially, and that is what we are talking about, ladies and gentlemen! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e9298	Next speaker is Mrs Trunk. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e9316	President-in-Office of the Council. [[Abg. Head: Go!]] Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Wöginger, I do not – and you forgive me – a murderer's pit from my heart for a few seconds: The longer I listen to you here, your non-arguments and your hymnic speeches, the harder I find my decision to really agree with this compromise and not to leave the hall. You make it twice and triple hard! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] A clarification is urgently needed to the ever-increasing all-party and non-ideology unity. From your speeches and your actions, the concept of families speaks kindly, and kindness – knowing that You yourself – is a matter of mood, weather situation, situation and, as you have said yourself, a matter of liquefaction. For us, Social Democrats and Socialists, it is about families that are right and right in the foreground! This is a big difference, because kindness is far too little for us! Mrs Haubner, Secretary of State! I believe you have a lot of things, including your efforts to achieve unity. But today, three times you have stressed the concept of honesty in relation to family policy. Mrs Haubner, you know – there may be some who do not have a deep vision – that, if you are stretching honesty in family policy and at the same time you are listening to the fact that child care problems, child care, child care funding are being postponed from the federal government to the states and the municipalities, and there is no euro from the federal side to which the majority of the countries and municipalities can no longer afford to do so in view of their missing financial and budgetary policies. [[Abg. Steibl: That is not true, Mrs Trunk! You know that very well!]] So much for the honesty of the colleague Haubner! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs Scheucher, I cannot spare you, given the fact that we are from the same federal state, not to remind you of the following. Today you have talked about the need for hourly care of our children. Mrs Scheucher, in a larger format – I do not know exactly, it is out of format and at least larger than a 16-bogen poster – you promised before the country election in Carinthia: Legal claim and free kindergarten for all children in Carinthia! But today you are talking about the need for hours of child care – so much to the much strained honesty of the ÖVP! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Sheermair: You didn't choose her!]] [[Abg. Steibl: You could have supported the colleague Scheucher in the election!]] Now a quote, but he who has pronounced it is – and he is right – not there. [[Abg. Neudeck: Despite blue glasses, Mrs. Colleague!]] I quote a FPÖ colleague who meant: A right to part-time has meaning only if no one is excluded from it and all employees in Austria have the same conditions. – It was the social spokesperson of the FPÖ, Dolinschek, who once said that. He also spoke of the high latte. The following shall apply to him: He puts the verbal, rhetorical latte so high that he can go through it uprightly; then it's not even a coincidence again! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A colleague from the FPÖ, I do not now understand the name – yet; Ahleitner's name is her. [[Abg. Steibl: That's not good, though, if you don't know what their name is!]] You said the 20-employee limit leads to a two-class society, colleague Achleitner, and you are right. Nevertheless, you bring in this bill and in no second have you been willing to think about the really thought-out alternative variants of the opposition, especially the SPÖ, and to work them out. [[Abg. Neudeck: I like those of the Greens better!]] What you're doing here is: You exclude two thirds of the people concerned, you create a right that is, in fact, an injustice for the majority of Austrians, and that is what you set out by law. Take your parliamentary speeches and your words and above all yourself seriously: Voices Please accept our amendment! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e9476	The next speaker is Mrs Schefermair. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e9494	Mr President, I should like to thank the Estimated Minister! High house! [[The speaker put a table entitled “Familiesweltmeister Österreich/Familieshospickarenz” on the speaker’s desk.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I believe that this issue is a very big challenge for our society and also for us as a politician. It is about the start of a socio-political trend change that gives the family the importance that it deserves and which secures our future. The projected population numbers speak volumes: There were 1 000 more births in 2001 than deaths; In 2030 there will be 23 000 deaths more than births. We are all invited to counter this development with sustainable family policies. The parents' time to decide is a piece of a puzzle to which I would like to add many more parts. An optimal picture of the more beautiful future may sound utopian, but I imagine: Both parents, whether in the classical family image or alone, can continue to pursue and find their personal field of work. They will find the tailored framework conditions in order to organize their childcare in the way it meets their needs. There must no longer be the ambivalence between work and family, the family must be able to shape itself in every phase of life, and women should be able to see the possibility of continuing professional development without bad conscience in the future. Education, children's desire, family, professional progress, but also – and now I point to the sign in front of me – the care of older family members plays a major role in this. With the family hospice, too, a piece of the puzzle I mentioned earlier has been added by this government. If we do not master these challenges, the problems we are now trying to solve are a small thing compared to what demographically awaits us in 20, 30 or even 50 years. The dad-month does not contribute to this sustainablely; my experience with my four children is another. Unfortunately, I have never been able to take advantage of the possibility of parental leave. Nevertheless, my husband and I feel great happiness in the task of accompanying and raising children. According to your remarks, Mr Krainer – I do not know if he is there – I cannot imagine that you are speaking from experience. [[Abg. Krainer: Yes!]] [[Abg. May. Prammer: Oh yes, he speaks from experience!]] [[Abg. Krainer: Yes!]] Father? [[Abg. May. Prammer: He was in the karenz year!]] Great! Of course, children are not just women's matters; I am also this conviction. But in the context of a sustainable family policy, I would like to see a lot more action, through which more and more trained women in different family forms find individual and effective ways with which work and further development do not constitute a contradiction to children. We are all invited to put together the missing puzzles on this large picture in a timely and far-sighted manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e9583	Next speaker is Mrs Mandak. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e9601	Mr President. High house! We have now heard a great many speeches of debate that support parental leave as it stands. The parents can finally decide, for example, you have said – yes, they can decide if they are lucky to be employed in a farm with more than 20 employees. [[Abg. Steibl: That's not true! Under 20 will be until the fourth year of karenz...!]] Women themselves know what is good for them – yes, they can know that, but it only has consequences if they are employed in a farm that has more than 20 employees. If you call this the best framework conditions here today, we clearly understand something else under best framework conditions. This law creates too much injustice, it creates two classes of parents and is therefore opposed – but not because it would not be good as such from the intention to give parents a right to part-time work! I would like to stress this once again. A very important political statement seems to me that Mrs Haubner, Secretary of State, has explained that family policy is not ideological. I would like to contradict this. In the way family policy is done, ideology is well implemented and transported. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Mrs State Secretary, it is especially necessary to put this on the table in the sense of an honest family policy. Her family policy is very much aimed at saying: The man, the father, is the one who is primarily responsible for the family's income, the women's priority for family work and then a little for the commitment, in the ideal case for the butter on the bread. If it doesn't work so well and income isn't that high – that's what has become clear to you in the meantime – then it just needs both incomes. But this is clearly a different family picture from ours, which means: Women and men should be able to and do family work and work at the same time, because it does both very well and because it does the children very well. Unlike you, we do not believe that it is the mother's privilege to be with the child, but we believe that it is the child's privilege to have a mother and a father. Accordingly, politics should also look forward. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You may well have this ideology, this basic attitude behind it, and that is also reflected in the politics you are making. Otherwise, we would not still have these blatant gaps in the area of childcare. Otherwise, it would not be the case that the childcare allowance is implemented as a measure which is a very high cost, and we already know that this leads to longer periods of women, actually to a cementing of the condition that women stay at home longer. Otherwise, we would not have an impact such as the fact that, for example, a family hospice – as good as it is from the idea – is not linked to a wage compensation and is thus used as an instrument only by women, because it is currently simply the case that women usually have lower incomes, so that in turn they are those who do this family work. What I blame you most are the two biggest chunks. This is, on the one hand, the tax reform with which you have punished the families – and that has severely penalized them – just a few weeks ago, which divides work and family work fairly. Where both parents earn the same amount, they fall through all preferences. [[Abg. Ellmauer: No, that's not true!]] That's right! Her preference is that the main income is acquired by the husband and then the woman is a bit forced to do so. [[Abg. Ellwall: Check the rates! Talk about it!]] But not if both parents are equally active: Then women are clearly above this limit of merit. [[Abg. Ellmauer: Simply wrong!]] What you've done as a whole, very big difference – that's also only a few months ago – is that in the course of the pension reform you have cemented the dependencies of women once again by extending the calculation period to 40 years. That means that you are massively punishing the part-time work of which you are now saying how important it is and making sure that you look through your fingers with part-time work that you do over years, when it comes to pension payment, so that the very bad awakening comes. You have to make yourself clear: Either you want the parents to be with the children and also to be able to do part-time work. But then, please, also the framework conditions, that this is possible for everyone first, that the parents also receive a pension when it is available, and that thirdly, these parents are also favoured by tax, but not disadvantaged, as is the case at present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e9694	Mrs Marek. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e9719	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! High house! The SPÖ itself has repeatedly pointed out in recent weeks and months that the right to part-time, which is now finally implemented by the black and blue government, is a long-term requirement of SPÖ. For me, this is simply a matter of priorities. And obviously measures to improve the compatibility of family and work for SPÖ women were not so important and worth the necessary effort. So much for courage, Mrs Schönpass! The fact that you still agree with the present bill is welcome. You probably could have argued it hard even if you did not agree. I am very sorry that the Greens do not agree today. From a practical point of view, I am deeply convinced that the first-time realization of such a legal claim will only have a chance to be implemented in practice if we adopt a law in which the employer side is also in the boat. We have not said anything about it, and that is also to say to you, Sabine Mandak, if a regulation falls on the head of those whom we really want to help. But I would also say: Better half a full glass than none at all! This is just responsible policy, ladies and gentlemen, and to say it with the words of Max Weber: Politics is the art of the possible. We can have a lot of things to ourselves. But we prefer to focus on putting things into practice in such a way that they can really be lived. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] For this very reason, ladies and gentlemen, we today also reject the SPÖ's request for the creation of a month of fatherhood protection. In particular, we need to be very careful about the need to strengthen the involvement of fathers in family work. Especially the right to part-time, which we decide today, offers very flexible opportunities for fathers to be more present in the family. Of course, fathers and mothers can also use part-time work at the same time, but only when the new part-time scheme is established should we consider further extensive time claims for fathers. Ladies and gentlemen! The right to part-time for parents – dear Brigid Weinzinger: Parents are like father and mother! – is another measure which this federal government has implemented government to improve the compatibility of family and profession. Red women's ministers have always talked about this, they have demanded it, but they have not achieved anything. So it was we who realized for the first time the consideration of child rearing periods at the pension in several forms. With the removal of the de facto employment ban during the karenz phase, we have also provided for the first time for many women to stay in the job with one foot during the family phase. For what else than exactly for a more continuous professional activity than before, is there the increased amount of dependability in child care money? That is exactly the difference between desire and reality. I can do a lot of things to myself, but the desire to become a reality, we see this as our responsibility – and we also perceive it.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e9779	I call Mr Amon. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e9797	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I have followed the debate very closely today, especially because the SPÖ has been extremely difficult to argue here with all the imaginable disquietings as to why it will now vote in favour of our proposal. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! If you have so many good suggestions as to how to introduce the right to parental leave into businesses with less than 20 employees, if you have so many good proposals in total, then I ask you the question – and the answer you have so far been guilty of – why you have not done anything in this direction in the time of your sole government, why you have not made any solution in the time when you were in a coalition with the FPÖ or in the time you were with us in a coalition. Today to criticize that our solution does not fit you, ladies and gentlemen, is really too little! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I admit that it would be better, as some have said, to find a solution for all workers. On the other hand, we must also see that what we are doing today is a milestone in social policy, that what we are going to decide here today is also happening with the involvement of Austrian entrepreneurs and is being carried along by them in the good sense of a successful social partnership, ladies and gentlemen, whom you are increasingly saying goodbye. And that's actually the sadness of the whole thing. This is an absolutely right step in the right direction of a better compatibility of family and career. And I am glad that you will nevertheless vote in spite of all the criticism you make today. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Scheibner.]] In view of the newly elected President of the Federal Republic of Germany, I would like to quote the newly elected President of the German Federal Republic, who said the following in his opening speech: “Germany, a country of ideas, that is for me first and above all a country for children. Why do we have fewer and fewer children in Germany? Faith We're not going to our future anymore? Children mean curiosity, creativity and confidence. Children are bridges into the world of tomorrow. We must all work hard to become a family- and child-friendly society. We need concrete answers to certain questions, for example: How do we manage to recognize parental work?” – Quote. We, ladies and gentlemen, give an answer to this: Taking into account the time of child rearing. Dr. Köhler continues to ask: “How can it succeed much better to reconcile family and profession better?” – for example, through a parent’s right to part-time work. And the third question: “What are children worth for us?” – While we, ladies and gentlemen, have already given a number of answers here in Austria and give answers, questions are first asked under a red-green government in Germany. We are therefore a significant step further than the ladies and gentlemen in the German Federal Government – thanks to our Minister of Labour, Martin Bartenstein, who made a significant contribution to anchoring this right to parental leave, but also, of course, thanks to our Federal Chancellor, who brought this demand to the centre of efforts to achieve a better reconciliation of family and profession. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I would like to remind you of the campaign during the workers' chamber elections in which your President Tumpl asked the question: When's the parents' time finally coming? No more delay! – This was the week of the election of the workers' chamber. Do you see that the argument that you make is a little bit double-edged? We have a good solution today, and I'm glad you're going with me. Perhaps the Greens will think about it again.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e9877	In order to make a corrective statement, the honourable Member has the power to do so. Prammer to speak. Please define the facts to be corrected and add them to the actual situation! – Please, Mrs Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e9898	Mr President. Mrs Marek has said here that the Black and Blue Government would only have created the billing of time for child care for the pension. I'll put it right: 1973 was the first time the pension has been charged for replacement periods – then a year. In 1985 it was decided for the first time. In 1990 the introduction of parental leave extended the accountability of child rearing periods, and since 1993 there have been four years of replacement for the pension.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e9946	There is no further statement of words to this effect. That concludes the debate. The rapporteurs do not wish to conclude. That is why we come to the votes and I ask you to take the places. It is coordinated on the various applications, and their number is larger, of course, separately. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Mother Protection Act, the Father's Carenz Act and other laws (483 d.e.). The Members of Parliament have power to do so. Mr Kuntzl, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a supplementary or amendment. Mr Mandak, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, have also tabled a motion for an amendment. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament have also tabled an amendment. I am therefore going to vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposals mentioned, following the classification of the draft law, and finally on the remaining parts which have not yet been voted on. Firstly, therefore, we shall vote on the amendments tabled to Article 1. Deputies Mag. Kuntzl, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment concerning the Z 14 in Article 1. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this Z 14 to give a sign in this regard. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. Mr Mandak, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, tabled an amendment relating to Z 14, Section 15h and Article 15i. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this amendment to give a sign. – The amendment does not find a majority, it is therefore rejected. A motion for an amendment to Z 14, § 15n was tabled by Members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. I ask those members of the House who stand up for it to be a sign. – The amendment does not find a majority and is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1 Z 14 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this as a sign of this. – This is accepted by majority vote. The Members of Parliament also have power. Mr Kuntzl, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment concerning paragraphs 15 to 17 and the Z 32 and a related amendment to paragraphs 15 to 32. I ask those Members of the House who agree to this amendment to give a sign on this point. – The amendment does not find a majority. He is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those Members of the House who are in favour of it to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by majority vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendments tabled to Article 2 of the draft law. Here, too, the Members of Parliament have power. Mr Kuntzl, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an amendment which refers to the Z5. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with this amendment to Z5 to give a sign on this point. – The request has been rejected by majority vote. Mr Mandak, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, tabled an amendment concerning Z 5, Sections 8 and 8a. I ask those Members of the House who agree to this amendment to give a sign on this point. – The application does not find a majority. He is therefore rejected. The Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment to Z 5, § 8f. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign. - That's not the majority. The application is therefore rejected. I shall now vote on Article 2 Z 5 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those Members of the House who give their consent to this to give a positive sign. – Decision-making shall be by majority. Accepted. Deputies Mag. Kuntzl, colleagues and others have tabled an additional proposal concerning the insertion of new points 5a to 5d and 6a. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this supplementary proposal to give a sign on this point. – The additional request does not find a majority. He is therefore rejected. The Members of Parliament also have power. Mr Kuntzl, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment concerning paragraphs 6, 7 and 16. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this amendment to give a sign in this regard. – The amendment does not find a majority. He is therefore rejected. I shall now vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen of the House who are in favour of this, to have a positive sign. – I note the decision-making by majority. Accepted. We shall vote on the amendments tabled to Article 3. It has the deputies Mag. Kuntzl, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment relating to paragraphs 5 to 7 and a related amendment to paragraph designations. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to vote in favour of this amendment to give a sign on this point. – The application does not find a majority and is therefore rejected. In addition, Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment concerning Z 7, Sections 26j and 26k. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a positive sign. – This request does not find the majority and is therefore rejected. In addition, Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment to Z 7, § 26p. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this for a sign. – I note that this amendment does not find a majority and is therefore rejected. I shall now vote on Article 3, paragraphs 5 to 7 as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those Members of the House who are voting in favour of a positive sign. – This part of the law is adopted by majority vote. Deputies Mag. Kuntzl, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment which contains the deletion of paragraphs 8 to 10. I would ask those Members of the House who agree to this amendment to give an indication of this. – I note that the request does not find a majority. He is therefore rejected. This means that we can vote on these parts of the draft law as it stands in the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to show this by a sign. – I note the decision-making by majority. Accepted. Deputies Mag. Kuntzl, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment concerning Z 19. In the event of approval, I would ask for a sign on this matter. . I note that the request does not find a majority and is therefore rejected. Mr Mandak and Mr Group also tabled an amendment concerning Z 19, §§ 105f and 105g. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a sign. – The application does not find a majority and is therefore rejected. I can now vote on Article 3 Z 19 as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those Members of the House who advocate a sign. – This part of the law is adopted by majority vote. The Members of Parliament also have power. Mr Kuntzl and Mr Group tabled an amendment which refers to Article 3, paragraphs 20 to 22 and the deletion of Article 8. Whoever wants to stand for it, I ask him for a sign on this matter. . I note that the request does not find a majority and is therefore rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This has been decided by majority vote and is therefore adopted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a positive sign. – I notice: Decision-making shall take place at second reading by a majority vote. This is the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to agree to the third reading paper to show this by a sign. – The proposal was adopted by a majority vote in third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of his report in 484 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a sign. – This decision shall be taken by majority vote. That concludes this item on the agenda. 3rd. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (415 e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act, which amends the Electricity Economic and Organisation Act, and the Amendment 78/A (E) by Georg Oberhaidinger, colleagues, on the urgent need to expand the high-voltage network in Austria (507 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e10196	We're now on the 3rd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mr Gusenbauer. The clock is set to 9 minutes if desired. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e10221	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Today's debate on the Austrian energy infrastructure and the Austrian energy organisation must also be given the opportunity to carry out a critical inventory, especially on how investment in energy infrastructure has developed in recent years, as the question of energy infrastructure is an essential factor for Austria's economic location. Colleagues Oberhaidinger and Comrades have not, for nothing, made a request of great importance, namely to finally close the expansion of the high-voltage network, because there are already a number of reports that investment by foreign companies, investment in Austria, is threatened by the fact that in future this complete power supply is not guaranteed in every area of Austria. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] Federal Minister! The question arises as to what your responsibility looks like when you have allowed in recent years that investment in energy infrastructure is falling, just as you have allowed public investment to fall in recent years. If you take every discussion about rising unemployment in Austria on the occasion of saying that there is nothing you can do, you have to wait for the upswing, then I have the impression that you are unable to solve the problem because you refuse to recognize the problem at all. Each time – I watch you very closely at each session – when new horror figures are reported from the labour market, your reactions to these horror figures are mostly cynical, arrogant and superior. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] They show that you are obviously not concerned at all with the fate of those concerned, although, in the meantime, there is also as a result of a lack of energy infrastructure policy, but not only of the, but above all because of a missing labour market policy in Austria, which has 300 000 jobseekers in the middle of spring, and although, in view of a situation in which unemployment is falling in Europe, unemployment continues to increase in Austria, not only the absolute number of unemployed, but also the number of people affected once in the year of unemployment. Mr Federal Minister, we will no longer accept that you have failed to see the rise in unemployment in our country! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We don't demand any miracles from you. We know, of course, that economic development is important that other essential economic policies, for which the Minister of Finance is responsible, are not within your area of responsibility, but that they are as responsibilities as you have been doing for several years now, that cannot be described as responsible policies. Mr. Federal Minister, you have withdrawn €2.5 billion from the labour market administration alone in two years. I'll tell you something. This is what we see, because this money is lacking in the education and training that people in our country would need so urgently. It is not to be seen that the insurance contributions in unemployment insurance are not used for the actual purpose, but only to stop budget holes. You have the responsibility to bear! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] – It is very interesting, Mr Colleague, to speak on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. In the past, Minister Bartenstein was mostly criticized by the Social Democrats and the trade unions for his inactionlessness. Meanwhile, the votes from the ÖVP are getting louder and louder. I have read that the Salzburg Managing Director of the ÖAAB calls for your resignation, and our colleague, Mr Amon, says: The ÖVP gives the impression that it makes us happy to take something away from people. Mr Amon, if that was the goal, I have to tell you: To convey this impression You're really convincing! It makes you happy to take something away from people! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] Landeshauptmann Deputy Hiesl from Upper Austria means that one gains the impression that the ÖVP has lost its Christian-social profile. And then, interestingly, Mr Landeshauptmann's deputy continues to say: In the reform of the pension system, Minister of Economic Affairs Bartenstein has left too little sense. [[Abg. Schöls: What does Haider from Upper Austria say to Gusenbauer?]] Mr Hiesl also said: Bartenstein can't just go over everything like that! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In the middle of the ÖVP comes the same criticism of Minister of Economic Affairs and Labour Bartenstein, as we have been formulating Social Democrats for a long time. Minister! I ask myself the question: When do you finally think about it? – That you have ignored the criticism of the opposition that you are not responding to the arguments of the Chamber of Workers and the trade unions, that is nothing new. But how do you now deal with the criticism from your own ranks, which calls for a turnaround in politics at last? How do you respond to this criticism? Given the situation on the Austrian labour market with nearly 300,000 people seeking work in our country, if you had a minimum of social sense and political responsibility, you would finally have to provide the necessary resources for labour market policy in Austria. That would be responsible policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The question of energy infrastructure policy as part of the entire economic policy only contributes a small part to the problems you have to address, but there is a debated overall analysis of your policy, which reads as follows: The economics of Grasser and Bartenstein is simply and simply failed if you look at the labour market data. – Do you know who this quote is from? – It is from Mr Sozialminister Herbert Haupt. I can only agree fully with his opinion! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Minister takes an active part in the debate and believes that this would be an older quote. – It is from October last year, and I must tell you, Minister: Since then, your policy has not become better for Jota, and that is why this assessment is still correct. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The impression is that the Federal Minister is not willing to solve the problems in the labour market. His reaction today in the early days to the legitimate statements of the Members here in the House was still dissenting, it was still a reaction of nothingness, a reaction of irrationality. Mr Bartenstein, I have the impression that you do not want to assume your responsibility as Minister for Labour and Economic Affairs. You are therefore not part of the solution, but are part of the problem. That is why, as a Social Democratic Member, we are proposing the following: [[Quoted print version removed]] You, Federal Minister, have not deserved it in the future!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e10346	The motion for a resolution, which has just been read, by Dr Gusenbauer, Dr Cap, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e10481	As the next speaker, the honourable Member's head is mentioned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e10499	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the list of speakers in the Socialist Group, it was assumed that Mr Gusenbauer's speech could not be about energy policy, but rather that the speech should be used for something else. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] In fact, you, Mr Klubobmann Gusenbauer, are then to what you wanted to push, namely to justify why Minister of Economic Affairs and Labour Bartenstein did not deserve the confidence, quite a bit of a question but a few quotations from officials. – If I were to hold back from all the statements made by the Social Democratic officials about you, such as Mr Leikam, who meant that you were spraying about as much human warmth as a refrigerator, or similar, then it would take a long time. So if these are grounds for mistrust, I would ask someone to file a motion of censure against you at your next part-session. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am trying to lose a few sentences on the ElWOG issue, perhaps with the permission of Mr President, to return to what you have said. On the Electricity Economic and Organisation Act, which you have indirectly assigned to the Minister in the field of low-voltage power grid, say 380 kV line in Styria: You asked about the responsibility of the Minister. In 1998, you and us agreed to the ElWOG on liberalising the electricity market, on the gradual opening of the market. You and us, although you were already in opposition at the time, have noveled it together in 2000. All these were steps to decoupling the policies of economic conditions and economic activity. The fact is: This management in Styria has to build the interlocutory company or the APG, its daughter, and certainly not the Minister. The Minister cannot give any instruction or anything else, he can create the conditions for it, and he does. By the way, Mr Oberhaidinger's request, which you mentioned, we have tabled together, namely Oberhaidinger, Hofmann and Kopf. He's not alone. Your work, but we're on it: This line, this loophole, has made our full support. But the Minister does not have a fault to answer here, nor does he have groundbreaking opportunities to influence. [[Abg. Gradwell: When has the application been dealt with?]] - Yesterday. And is already in plenary today – wonderful! Yesterday, today in plenary: We're so fast! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: We work so fast!]] Mr Gusenbauer, I understand that you do not think much to justify the request for distrust. This country has the lowest unemployment rate of all EU-15. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Still!]] This country has the lowest youth unemployment rate in all EU-15. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Still!]] This country is above the EU average with its economic growth. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Not for a long time!]] This country has a world-wide leading point for social security. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Still!]] This country spends most of its money per capita on the education of our young people. And: With our research rate, we are on our way from an average place towards the front third. We are already at 2.2 percent, soon at 2.5 percent and will reach the desired 3 percent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But you're right: Such positive figures do not come from themselves. We have introduced a research premium and a research exemption, which creates a national foundation, that is to say, additional money in the field of research and development. We have made two economic packages, a growth package and recently decided on a tax reform that you have refused your consent. This tax reform will massively relieve small income – by € 1 billion – the economy, namely all sizes and all legal forms of the economy, will contribute to the recovery, to the strengthening of businesses. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Wrong representation!]] And with €1 400 million for active labour market policy, we have a record value of expenditure in this area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have also provided 7 000 training places to enable those who may not be able to get into an education. In addition, we have provided €50 million in the area of the Youth Education Security Act. We have created the “Jobs for You(th)” action, through which there are 8,000 additional employment opportunities for young people. With all these measures, we have been able to reduce the time spent in unemployment to 100 days; other countries in the neighborhood are moving twice. – If these are not positive figures, ladies and gentlemen, then I no longer know myself. But I'm afraid you don't know yourself. The lowest unemployment rate and all these positive figures were achieved at a budget deficit of only 1 percent. We had once had such an unemployment situation, about the same rate as today, that was 1997/98. Only at that time did we have 4 percent budget deficit under a red finance minister. What can be concluded from it? – The politicians of the time, the finance ministers of the time, apparently made it a principle to make debt, to spend more than to take in, but thus not to achieve anything. [[Abg. Wattaul: Debt Rudi!]] Our representatives, like Mr Bartenstein, are able to make a responsible budgetary policy and still maintain a high employment rate, the highest in all of Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you can't find any arguments, then grab You are not always in favour of this instrument of mistrust! You have already tried this with Minister Grasser and other ministers. This is usually an expression of missing arguments, an expression of helplessness. [[Abg. Wattaul: This is like an order when he comes from them!]] In view of these facts, which I am holding out to you here, I must say clearly to you: Mr Bartenstein certainly does not deserve our distrust, but he certainly deserves all our trust in view of these achievements that have been accomplished, and I therefore ask you to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e10698	Mr Broukal has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e10716	Mr President. Minister! I would like to begin by apologise to Mrs Lentsch for this because I have said something quite unfit for this morning. We only had 2 days to think. Don't repeat it. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Mr. Head! Rhetorical questions already have their own importance, but it is not to ask: Why does a minister deserve distrust just because there are 100 000 unemployed in his term of office? Why does a minister deserve to be distrusted when there is more than 50,000 youth unemployed in his term of office? Why does a minister deserve our distrust, if he is the Federal Minister for Labour and Economy, but in the EU comparison Austria has the lowest public investment rate among all 15 – perhaps even among all 25? We are waiting for the next Eurostat issue. Then why does a minister not deserve our distrust? Why? What did he do? Do you know? - I don't know. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Don't be careful!]] In any case, I know that in the summer of 2000, I heard interestingly in the “summer talks”, as Chancellor Schüssel said: We have reduced unemployment. And Mrs. Riess-Passer was allowed to scout and say, We've created more teaching places than there are job seekers. – There it was “we”, there it was still you when it went down. Now it's the conditions, the international economy, you can't do anything. [[Abg. Head: I didn't say a word!]] [[Abg. Wattaul: Don't forget the mayor of Vienna!]] You don't even use the room you'd no doubt have. Austria – and you will not disagree with me – is final in the EU as far as public investment is concerned. [[Abg. May. Molterer: The word “ElWOG” has not even been spoken! Is that the item on the agenda?]] We know – the Wifo tells us again and again – that public investment could reduce the unemployment rate by 0.5 to 0.7 percent. Instead, you lower corporate taxes. - Should be. But it's not like you're without alternatives. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grillitsch: Which topic are you talking about?]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: What about the agenda?]] Research and development – because They all talk about it –: The Federal Minister has said this morning that there are now almost half more research funds than in 1999. So in my Excel, the difference is from 1.96 to 2.27 percent 16.5 percent. This is very far from half. [[Abg. May. Molterer: What about the agenda, Mr President? What topic is there being discussed?]] 16.5 percent more in five years and no concrete objectives in research and development! [[Abg. Grill: missing theme!]] This federal government has never had a benchmarking at all, for example, how many people want to work in research and development in two, three, four or five years. [[Abg. Scheibner: Say “ElWOG”! At least mention it once!]] It's always about these numbers: 2.27%, 2.3%. To date, we do not have a specific number about whether this means that more research is being carried out, or whether this only means that the public hand spends more money on the same research. [[Call to the liberals:ElWOG! ElWOG!]] The last thing I want to talk about is the location quality in this country. Part of it is security of electricity. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Aha!]] I have now given you some arguments on why there are a number of reasons – and not just the ElWOG – to say: No more trust – I'm sorry! – It happened, so it was! [[Abg. Head: It happened!]] This is the exercise – but you know how it is. In any case, I say: With 350 000 unemployed, more than 50,000 youth unemployed and the red lantern in public investment, Minister Bartenstein more than deserved this distrust. [[Abg. Wattaul: Is this an advertising speech or a parliamentary speech?]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e10927	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e10961	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, I hope that I will not get a call on the matter when I speak to the ElWOG, because so far this has not happened on the part of the opposition parties. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Bravo! Excellent!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! This government template is a implementation of the Internal Electricity Market Directive with a view to strengthening market integration. The focus of this directive is on improving consumer protection, transparency in contract provisions and greater transparency in invoices – or we call it: better legibility. I would be glad, as likely some of you, to be able to read and interpret a electricity bill in some way. It is about the legal and organisational separation of the electricity grid, the supply of electricity generation. That is to say, there is the network, the monopoly area, which was the monopoly area, is and will probably remain, and must, and the competition area. Today, with this government template, we are implementing a novel that is so to speak in advance obedience, with nothing against it. On the contrary! We welcome this. Implementation would be mandatory by the EU until 2007. The unbundling takes place with us earlier. This is to be welcomed because it is against discrimination, discrimination against independent suppliers and, of course, the result of the customer. [[Abg. Oillingers: Do not hide to Bartenstein!]] It is the elimination of possible distortions of competition, and, as I believe, it is also crucial to reduce costs for customers. This means that I mean private customers as well as trade and industry. The costs, we know, for the network, the network charges are very high in European comparison – too high, as I mean. Because of my information, I also place appropriate savings potential here. [[Abg. Oillinger: Speak to the Minister!]] [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP.]] This should actually be used as a result of the unbundling. This means that there is a cost reduction, a savings for private customers, for industrial customers, for commercial customers, and, of course, for the energy-intensive industry. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Don't let the debate slip!]] I cannot tell you that Mr Moser in the committee has spoken about the fact that, during the first two steps of liberalisation, Federal Minister Bartenstein had said that a savings potential, a savings of around 1 000 – I think – would be expected per customer. He adjourned this. Perhaps there is a confusion here with the so-called Ederer-Tusher – you can remember. The fact is, and I have considered the figures very carefully, that – I compare the year 1998 with the year 2003, each July with July, the electricity price index and the consumer price index – it can be found that the electricity price index has fallen from 113.9 to 113.1, although minimal but actually real. On the other hand, there is an increase of 9 percent in the consumer price index. This should be taken into account in this comparison, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I also compare the electricity prices for commercial enterprises, again July 1998 with July 2003. As a result of these figures, a savings for small businesses, a cost reduction of more than €1 300, is given a price reduction of 20 to 35 percent. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In order not to assume that the numbers are freely invented: The source is the Statistics Austria. In conclusion: On the basis of the decision taken in the Committee in 2006, a report will be drawn up by the E-Control for the 2005 report year, which will allow us to see whether the measures created by this government template, which is in the process of decision-making today, are taking place and whether the actual effects are there. I am looking forward to the report, I know that there is a lot of savings potential that will be effective with this measure. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11063	The next speaker was Mr Oberhaidinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11082	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We as the opposition party do not just reject this government proposal, we also agree with the two motions for resolutions tabled. One was introduced by me – because the speed of implementation was already mentioned – last April. It has been postponed several times by the government parties, as it is so usual. Fortunately, a certain urgency and importance were assigned to him yesterday and in the preliminary discussions. That is why we are pleased to have him on the agenda today. We will, I believe, decide with three parties – the two government parties and us. The reason why we do not agree with the Government's proposal is that a number of reasons have already been put forward. I am not of the opinion that my two previous speakers did not talk about energy, because some of what they were talking about results, among other things, from the changed conditions on the electricity market. Now you can sit down and say, okay, we've liberalized once, that's it. And then you look at the development relatively inadvertently. Or if it is necessary – and in our opinion it is now highly necessary – to intervene accordingly in this event. The directive under discussion today, which is adopted by the government parties, is not only talking about unbundling, but also about security of supply. The Forum for Security of Supply already exists in Austria on this issue. This has not grown on our dung, but it is not a lesser one – he should be known to you – as ex-land chief Dr. Zernatto, ex-national councillor Zernatto – apologise: [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: He was even head of state!]] Head of State even; thank you, Minister – was a co-initiator and supported this. Why is there this forum? – I quote: "The massive power outages in the USA and Europe (Italy, England, Sweden, Norway) in summer 2003 underline the importance of a functioning energy supply. Such failures damage the economic location and cause enormous costs.” – So far an extract from the justification for setting up this forum. On the question: Who are we? – The Security Forum is the partner of the economy and the population in all matters of security of supply. Ladies and gentlemen! We should not be left out of politics, but should also be involved accordingly. It is precisely this issue that we have also discussed from the SPÖ. We felt that it should be accompanied by the passage of security of supply in this proposal; a closer, more correct version of the network charges should also be taken into account, which plays a non-essential role in this respect. If the government parties today decide on this unbundling, which will at least hit 15 major ETUs in this country, they will also decide that there will be no more access. So far, the vertically integrated company has been. As a result, the network operator had direct access, logically, to the production facility. This will not be possible as much as possible in the future. One of the main causes of these events, which I have just mentioned, is, among other things, a lack of communication. This problem is still getting worse. That is why we considered that we should not regulate this without the other. There are already very specific proposals for this. We could have established the legal basis for the conclusion of such contracts, that they should cover costs, so that there are no legal disputes afterwards, and that in all cases, the independent grid operator in crisis cases will have access to the power plant with which he can and will have to solve the problems. That was our approach. You didn't follow that. For this reason, Minister, I am sorry: We've been working on it for years – and I'm not driving child-moving about energy – but that's just too little for me. That is why I agree with the distrust expressed to you by my previous speakers in this sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11118	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11137	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The series after: In fact, a novel to the ElWOG first stands for discussion and for the vote. It is quickly explained what we believe this is. The move towards liberalisation in the energy sector has been started – to do so you can stand what you want. I personally think it is quite questionable whether you should have done this the same or not, whether you should have left it even more in public hands and in public regulations. But one thing is clear: If the train is driving, this so-called unbundling about which it is here is a central and necessary pre-requisite for the whole thing to become something, if any, not more damage. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why our approval in this area is quite unspectacular. It's actually not accessible to me any other argument why you could have something against this novel, except – and so I understand the SPÖ fraction – that you think you're going to have a chance to do more here. - Okay, so you can always argue. We're holding on to this. Nothing wrong happens, something reasonable is done. The point is: That if you talk about security of supply – in which all these three groups, SPÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ, agree – you will also be talking about investment security measures, so that you will encounter the so-called loophole in the 380 kV line, we already have a different position for Greens, with leave. You have remained guilty of this in the Committee, and it will be interesting how you will still argue today. But what you're actually putting into the landscape is just the following: If you increase the capacity to this extent, you will not be able to disprove it with any argument that, with Austrian investment funds, an advance investment is being made to ensure that Austria becomes the nuclear and nuclear transit hub of Central Europe. This will be invested, this will be addressed here. – On the other hand, there is a different position from that of the Social Democrats in particular. We do not believe that this 380 kV line needs to be used for security of supply within Austria. There are also enough studies to do this. But they remain guilty of any explanation. What will happen once these capacities have been opened up? – You will probably want to be so smart, at least business-economic, that you also want to bring in the investments. There will be no other way of transiting than nuclear power. That's what I'm saying: Well, maybe a good business – I don't know. But in this policy of the Federal Government I consider this not only to be a question of the business economy, but rather a question of the whole. I really have to tell you, this is just hypocrites. You can't let the anti-atom line hang out on every occasion – we'll hear it again today – and then, where measures are being taken within Austria, another very nice amount of money is taken into your hands, to invest in the opposite direction, in the truest sense of the word. That seems to me to be very unbelievable. That is why our clear attitude and our voting behaviour in the Committee is also in this area. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The actual motion for a resolution, which has been tabled here and which has been discussed in particular, namely that of Dr Gusenbauer and Dr Cap, contains some points of consideration. You know my position, Minister of State. Many of us argue this way: It's not all bad in Austria. - No one says that. It is not all bad for the economic indicators either. But you are constantly negated that in many central areas you have fallen back on the critical track with your economic and financial policy in Austria. That's the difference. Today, we can still cling to the belief that we are good at the level of some key figures, such as the unemployment rate or growth or other key indicators. Dramatic indicators would be, for example, indicators on the capacity of an economy to innovate. There we were never far forward, but also there we fall back, depending on the measurement sizes. So the problem is that the rates of change are rather poor. And you can do that, you should and must charge the Federal Government. That is why I draw two or three points from this motion for a resolution which I find very informative in this context. First of all, this is the question of fiscal and tax policy. It was you, Mr Federal Minister, who, in 2000/2001, together with the Chancellor, who announced clearly that a crisis is not recognizable and not foreseeable, although many have already recognized and many have kept before you. My accusation is not that you may not be able to deceive yourself, or that you would be good hope, but my accusation is simple and touching that, for ideological purposes, you have initially denied this development because In fact, you wanted to miss out on the exact idea of taking counter-taxive measures on the part of the State in terms of economic policy, because you simply have a different approach to content. – Then confess to it and do not press ahead of this discussion! This is my accusation to you. The real sequence has confirmed that. Of course, it has come to economic collapse, and the homework that we should have done here has not been done: no preferred tax reduction in small but targeted areas – no, stop, let's not be Keynesianism. I'll tell you: The argument was ridiculous at that time! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Later on, now that the upswing is taking place, much too much money is loosened from our view, and this for the wrong one. There will again be no successful economic or research policy for the future. And that's what you've got to do. Their actions are completely beyond the structural problems of the Austrian economy, which actually exists – we have already discussed this a few times. The problem in Austria was not that we need to cut the corporate tax so rigorously – that's not it; But they do it deliberately. But they miss it in return, although it is said once Your programme was to actually implement measures for the so-called pay-related taxes – if we are talking about small and medium-sized enterprises or the more labour-intensive economy. The entire volume of taxes you have loosened under the heading “Relief of the economy” goes completely beyond this problem – you defend it as well – and this results in damage. You have to be credited to that personally. Federal Minister Bartenstein! However, they are now also the Federal Government's hanging sign for the financial and economic policy that we believe is missing. Granted, the Minister of Finance has already resigned almost alone in this role. Today it has been assembled that many mistrust applications have already been made to the Minister of Finance – certainly, but with this kind of inability to act by a minister you have to ask yourself if so many mistrusts are even retiring, because he has actually disappeared from the balcony in the basement and has become a dirty child there. [[Abg. Wattaul: That's an order call!]] But you, Federal Minister Bartenstein, now represent the Federal Government in terms of economic and financial policy, and that is why, I think, in the light of the arguments put forward here by Mr Gusenbauer and Mr Cap, we can come closer to the motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11197	Mr Bartenstein, Federal Minister, spoke from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11216	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let me comment briefly and in addition to what has already been said by the honourable Member on the criticism points and on the motion of censure tabled by Mr Gusenbauer. Ladies and gentlemen, I take note of this, of course, even if what Mr Gusenbauer found in terms of wording was in no way flattering. However, he has not become very concrete in his criticisms and accusations. Figures have essentially failed – apart from the fact that some figures are indisputable: That we are the number one in the labour market under difficult and most difficult growth conditions in Europe remains the fact, even if you are now leaving the plenary, Mr Gusenbauer. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: You won't get me out of the plenary, even if your speech is bad!]] And if for many years we have had the lowest youth unemployment rate in Europe, this is also a fact that you cannot contradict. More specifically, Mr Broukal has already become a member of Parliament, and I would like to address these figures a little. I referred by about half to 2.27 percent in increasing the R&D share, which was the cut we had achieved in the mid-1990s. This is the reference size, and between 1994 and 1996, it was on average 1.5 percent, each slightly rising. There were also intermediate services. It went up slowly. But to calculate that the difference between 1.5 per cent and 2.27 per cent is fairly accurate plus 50 per cent, Mr Broukal, I do not need an Excel, but for that my head and the head are enough. [[Abg. Broukal: You can calculate back to 1950!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] As regards the seriousness of your criticisms and accusations, my two gentlemen: Mr Gusenbauer speaks of 300,000 unemployed. – I still let this inaccuracy go through, because he always says: including the job seekers. But if this had been heard from you by Hums or Hostash, you would have taken a massive stand against it because in Austria and elsewhere in Europe it is Usus, who in training are not to be expected to be the unemployed. But, as has been said, I do not even want to turn to it today. But that you, Mr Broukal, are going to have a strong outcome and then speak of 350 000 unemployed people, which shows what accuracy or inaccuracy you are dealing with. I am concerned about every unemployed person, but you are simply throwing 350 000 unemployed into the National Council's plenary session. [[Abg. Broukal: How many were it in January and February?]] – That’s not true in the back and in the front. Mr Broukal, you have said something: There would be more 50,000 youth unemployed! I can tell you from the latest statistics that there are 37 810 youth unemployed aged between 15 and 24 years. That's 37,810 too much, but as you come to plus 50,000, that's what you're asking your laptop, your Excel, because it has nothing to do with expertise. A little more knowledge would be nice. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] While the head of parliament has rightly mentioned many macroeconomic data that speak for Austria – a repetition would only steal the time of the members of the House – let me say: It is remarkable that this morning we were able to decide on one of the most important family policy innovations in a three-party consensus, namely the parental age, but on the other hand you think that the Minister of Labour would have been inactive in all these areas. I can remind you already that the parent time was presented by me that the hospice carency had a lot to do with me that SPÖ governments could have developed the finishing-new for years and decades to make the employee care for all out of this old, false instrument of handling. The SPÖ didn't do it! Their predecessors, forefathers and foremothers did not do it! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The fact that it was – and I am already saying this: under my leadership – that we have legally implemented the uniform worker concept, that was said in a day like this, when we know why nothing goes on in other areas. We have seen Mr Vergestnich and Mr Nürnberger discuss intensively, we also know why – they are not here now – but perhaps the trade union will agree sometime on how to correct its structures without doing so again on the backs of Austrian workers; GPA and trade unions have been mentioned here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] So, meet with your criticism. She's sometimes the wrong guy. Remember: No one else has reduced the additional wage costs to an extent that we have done, for example, on the last one. Years of this year, € 140 million – better employment opportunities for older people. And thank God goes to these target groups, those of the 19-year-olds, that is, those of the teaching age, and the over 50-year-olds, the unemployed. However, it should not be beautiful that we always go up by a total of 1, 2, 3 percent in the annual period. But, as I said, I am concerned enough about this, and I assume that I am much more concerned about it than you, my two gentlemen, of the SPÖ, whom you have referred to today for the first time. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] On the subject of ElWOG a few remarks, ladies and gentlemen. This is about the implementation of an EU directive. We are, for example, at the level of this directive. From the time we're in the lead, we think that's useful. By the way, I am surprised and negatively affected that for the first time under an Energy Economics Act the SPÖ does not go along – I hear that the Greens are going along. We have decided to provide for this social, non-proprietary separation of 100 000 customers, which seems appropriate with regard to Austria's structure, is also what the European Union provides as a minimum measure. In terms of security of supply, for example, we invited the energy spokespersons of the parliamentary groups to a survey in October last year. The experts' consistent judgment, by the way also the International Energy Agency, the OECD's Quasi subsidiary, is that Austria is one of the best countries in terms of security of supply. This cannot, of course, weigh us in safety. Last year, it would soon have become very, very hot at Semmering, but not because of any tunnel constructions, but rather because of internal Austrian problems, but because the supply through Hungary did not work out, which is why the Semmering line was overburdened. Not only that, but in total the Achilles ferns in the security of supply of Austria, namely South Austria, and especially the Greater Graz region, will bring me to the opinion with you: This 380 kV line is built. I have been saying this for a very long time, and in my field of influence I have contributed to the conclusion of the strong-current road law procedure that the composite daughter APG is doing things. Now it is on the land of Styria and on the land of Burgenland to bring the EIA procedure over the stage. So far, it's quite reasonable, and I assume that things are in the river. This is together with the Salzburg line, but there are priority differences, certainly the relatively largest Achilles farces when it comes to security of supply in this country. This brings us to a second topic, namely the fact that the electricity grids represent a natural monopoly, but unfortunately there are some parallel grids in the Styria of God, and that about half of the electricity bill of the Austrians is generated in the matter of power tombs. Only a quarter are the pure energy costs, a quarter the charges, half are power toads. Mr Oberhaidinger, honourable Member! I am very surprised that you used some time in the committee yesterday to think: The requirement of the network tariffs, one must see the interests of the E-Economy, and, and so on. – I am very much in favour of taking into account the interests of the e-business, but also the interests of the economy and, above all, of household customers. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It is simply like that in Austria we are in Europe in terms of domestic customers, simple electricity consumers, the top riders and grid usage rates in the Austrian average are between 20 and 40 percent above the EU average. I would like to return these 20 to 40 percent to the Austrians in the next few years. And until yesterday, I thought that the SPÖ was going there – now it doesn't look like that anymore. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is similar with industry and business. Although we are not the number one, not the most expensive in Europe, we are still the number three and 15 to 20 percent above the EU average. So there should and must go down. For this reason, e-control will reduce these network tariffs by consensus with those concerned. To date, net-use tariff reductions have saved €250 million. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Thus, this ElWOG-Novelle, this unbundling, is an important step towards more security of supply, because those who believe that now investments in the networks are no longer possible are not rare those who, yesterday and yesterday, with the money they have accumulated from their networks, have all cross-subsidized, not necessarily the generation of electricity, but allegedly occasionally even municipal transport companies and others more. We want – and this is quite certain with this innovation – that at least most of the money that Austria’s EVUs make out of the networks will be reinvested in the networks. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11308	The next item is Mrs Fleckl's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11326	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Minister, your statistics in honour, but you know as well as we do that the numbers of unemployed young people are actually much higher than you have presented them here. I have to say, Mr President, that I really shudder when our unemployed, and in particular our young unemployed, are summarized in positive figures and presented as a success balance for our government in Europe. I find that tasteless. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As you have already heard, the SPÖ cannot accept this government proposal for the reasons already mentioned. Real energy and economic policies do not take place in Austria. Energy is vital for people. More people clearly need more energy, and the state has to provide for this basic provision. In Austria, electricity consumption has increased by six times over the last decades. For the majority of this energy, exactly those 15 energy supply companies that are involved in this bill today. For these supply companies, Mr. Minister, you have not provided real incentives to invest through this law, neither in spare capacity nor in security of supply; Investments that could ensure secure energy supply in Austria and strengthen Austria's economic location. As a breeder, I would like to ask you to take a look at the Styria. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein talks with employees.]] Mr Minister, I don't know, may it not be that important to you since you've been there so often? In the Graz and southern Styrian areas, electricity consumption has increased tenfold over the last decades. As Minister of Labour and Economic Affairs, you will know that in these decades thousands of businesses have settled in the South Styria – that means that jobs and the existence of many thousands of people need to be secured there. These plants must be supplied with additional energy. Subsidy in these areas would mean that these companies would quickly search for new sites and migrate away. A negative report after the other one in the Styria: Semmering base tunnel, power plant Voitsberg, EStAG scandalal, traffic shaft on our federal roads and 380 kV line. – Minister! With lip confessions alone, only by saying: I have long said that this needs to be done!, will not ensure the necessary power supply for the Styria. All these reports bear witness to the failure in Styria's economic policy, both from your side and from the President of the State. [[Abg. Zweytick: That's not true!]] Mr. Col., listen carefully. Maybe you should read a Styrian newspaper. [[Abg. Steibl: What has the EStAG lost here? Stay with the thing!]] Mrs. Steibl, you're the same. Shaked by the EStAG case, which also casts a very bad light abroad on the Styria – you have certainly already heard that it is also reported in Swiss newspapers... – Mrs Steibl! [[Abg. Steibl: The SPÖ is also involved,...!]] Here's the microphone, and you're just a lamp in the middle calls! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl: I said the truth!]] That's where the Styrian ÖVP drifts into scandals, withdrawals and outrages. [[New call of the abg. Steibl.]] That is all that Mrs Landeshuptmann has to offer in Styria right now. [[Abg. Steibl: Mrs. Landes Captain knows what you are doing...!]] And dealing with yourself, economic policy does not take place in Styria. [[Abg. Steibl: But it takes place!]] Mrs Steibl! Who can pay the bill if EStAG cannot deliver dividends to the country of Styria for 2003? – The Styrian electricity consumers, even the Styrian population. [[Abg. Steibl: You'll know that!]] Minister! The Styrian population is insecure – you know, Mrs Steibl – and disappointed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl: You don't know anything, you don't know yourself! Ask,...!]] If the Steirers stood here at this speaker's desk and could raise their voices here in this House, they would just as distrust you. [[New call of the abg. Steibl.]] – Mrs Steibl, you have used your word quota for the whole day! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] They promise that there will be electricity price reductions. Today we have electricity prices as before liberalisation, and experts say that in the future, by the year 2010, electricity prices will be 50 percent higher. Who can the Styrian people believe now, Mr. Federal Minister? [[Abg. Steibl: This is another statement of the SPÖ that is not true!]] And where do you want to go with the Styria? Back to Almhüttenromantik with wax and petroleum? If you come to us as a tourist, this is quite attractive for you, but for the population a bitter pill – and with pills you will surely know yourself. [[Abg. Steibl: Who wrote you this speech? Who wrote you this speech?]] Mr Minister and dear government parties! Turn around in the sense of the population, otherwise it can easily happen that you will no longer have a light at the 2006 elections, because you lack the electricity for it.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11532	The next item is the speech by Mr Glaser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11551	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a southern Burgerlander, I have an overview of what is happening in Styria, and I occasionally read Styrian newspapers. You know that the Burgenland is dominated by a socialist majority and is Objective 1 territory, but we envy the Greater Graz area, we envy the Styria around what is currently present in this area of economic dynamics. What is happening in the area of car clusters is quite simply great, and we southern Burger countries are glad that we also benefit from it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe that Mr Bartenstein, as well as the Styrian government, certainly has a large share in it. The Minister himself has already said to the 380 kV management – and I also know – that he has been fighting for the realization of this leadership for 20 years. I'm already on the subject. This 380 kV high-voltage line from the northeast of Austria to the southeast of Austria is a long history and, as I believe, a very conflict-rich history. In my opinion, those who have learned the most about it are the electricity supply companies, because I can remember that, when the first contact was made 20 years ago, they said: So and so this line has to be, and so it will be built! Of course, that didn't come well. Ten years ago, the argument for the need for the 380 kV line was still, I think, rather clumsy, because to argue that this 380 kV line is necessary for the security of supply of the Southburg country is not really credible. But now I think I'm really trying to convince the responsible representatives of the electricity companies and find the best possible variants in the conversation with the population. We can now also see this from the example of the route that was already realized in Burgenland and where you found really better race variants, where you used lower masts and where the population as a whole could get involved. This has shown that good solutions are possible. I am convinced that this part, which is now under construction, will be the case. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the meantime, the need for this 380 kV line is no longer really challenged by the opponents in those communities affected by it. It is about how to find the best possible solution for the way in which the trail is going. The need for security of supply is clear to everyone. This has been clearly demonstrated to all of us, above all, by the outages of electricity and the collapses of the grid last winter. Even in Austria, I know that we are just a few times past a network collapse. Finally, this need has also become argumentable with the transport of alternative energies, wind energy in the north of our federal territory, for example, so that overall, I think, the need of no one is challenged. I do not understand, therefore, that Mr Kogler, who was quite able to imagine in the Committee that he was in favour of not agreeing to this request now. [[Call the Greens.]] You weren't in there! [[Abg. Sburny: I am well informed!]] But it became clear in his speech that he is not really sure whether he should be opposed or not, because he also said there are very good reasons for this 380 kV line. The second part of this motion for a resolution, which also concerns the forced use of decentralized energy sources, should have prompted you to agree to this request, not least because this creation of decentralized energy sources, mostly alternative energy sources, will also enable research and development of new sources of energy. I am sorry that you do not agree, but we will at least be happy to give our consent to this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11605	The next item is the report by Mr Bauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11624	Mr President. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! The present proposal is an adaptation to EU directives on the common rules of an internal electricity market. I know we've done a lot of things with the ElWOG, but this adjustment, the unbundling of distribution network operators, is necessary. However, this debate also gives the opportunity to discuss energy policy in principle. We already have the impression in Austria that neither energy policy nor industrial policy really takes place here, and this is actually what it is about, Federal Minister Bartenstein. As far as the 380 kV line is concerned, it was clarified in the Committee yesterday and clearly stated that this is a requirement that is important for the Austrian sites and that a power transit is only available from about 5 to 10 percent. We therefore primarily meet the Austrian site requirements. That is why we have also tabled this request. I would, however, like to comment more fundamentally on this question. The production of competition has become one of the most important official international motives for opening liberalisation, and we note that electricity prices have actually fallen initially, especially for large customers, but today electricity prices have already risen again and a huge increase in electricity consumption has been given, which shows that many of the necessary energy efficiency, which is attainable, has not been sufficiently sought. I also believe that a policy change has occurred in the supply companies, which is no longer security of supply is the top objective, but primarily the promotion of profits. This means that there is simply no investment in a wide range of areas and that we in Austria do not have any authority to do so by means of these liberalisation measures, which ultimately ensure that energy plants are built, that adequate grid expansion is carried out, and that more is done in terms of energy efficiency, that is, in terms of economy. In this sense, I think it is necessary to do more for security of supply in the future. I also believe that the reliable framework conditions within which the common interests are played out, namely those of the providers and consumers, are least examined and pursued in terms of social tolerance. I think it is necessary to note that every market also needs appropriate rules; security of supply must therefore be one of the most essential elements of a long-term economic and location policy. In this sense, we have built our line of argument, and therefore we cannot agree to this proposal for the above reasons, namely because of the lack of consideration of security of supply.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11666	The next item is Mrs Rossmann's speech. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11684	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! We are discussing today the introduction of an EU directive into the ElWOG, and I would like to return to the creation of this law. I have seen it myself as a State Secretary in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which pioneering role ElWOG played internationally – we were therefore envied. We agreed at the time – that was also the wish of the Federal Government in the government agreement 2000; this was also a liberal manuscript – that electricity price reduction or electricity liberalisation in this form should be implemented quickly, not only for industry, but also for small business operators and for private households. What we have on the table today is actually the continuation of our idea to bring about a corresponding unbundling of our pioneering role, namely by means of this law and also to give consumer protection a corresponding priority. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Where would our electricity price be today?- Oh, my God! This is what I am saying to the Socialist Group: We would probably be where Germany is today: In Germany, despite liberalisation in the electricity sector, the electricity price has increased by one third due to the non-existent political will of a red-green government. In comparison, according to new Wifo study, the situation in Austria is such that since liberalisation in Austria, we have had a reduction in the cost of electricity by €700 million. It's only the beginning! Of course, we welcome this EU directive because, as I have already said, there will be a unbundling which, in turn, will bring more savings. However, I am not surprised that the Social Democratic Group does not agree to this adaptation of the ElWOG to this EU directive, because the statement of the Vienna government was already defying – and this must be done on the tongue – the statement of the Vienna government. Their criticism was that it was not reasonable for at least two Supervisory Board members to be independent of the parent company. – This is more than revealing: No consent because two independent additional Supervisory Board members must be independent of the parent company and are, so to speak, party-free! For this reason, this bill for social democracy in Vienna is unacceptable! – There were probably the instructions from Vienna, so that you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, cannot vote here today. I don't wonder what a strange role the SPÖ plays when I look at the example of Styria, where you are, in large advertisements, critical of the events in the EStAG. My previous speaker, Mrs Fleckl, suddenly acted out here as if she knew nothing about the whole of the EStAG thing. Were it not deep - red high-ranking SPÖ officials – right up to the financial officer of the Styrian Social Democracy – who have participated in the EStAG, and very decisively, the events all the years?- Oh, my God! [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Heinzl! Heinzl!]] [[Calls at the SPÖ:Paierl! Paierl!]] But now you suddenly pretend from the SPÖ as if you knew nothing about all this! All that the Court of Auditors has shown is now suddenly a disaster for you from the SPÖ! – You have caused all of this! [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] Thank God, however, my dear Styrian friends open up all this – and the people recognize very well what game you play from the SPÖ there! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] With our signature action in Styria, that there should not be an increase in electricity prices, we have caused a lot of things to be done by the liberals, and we hope that this will also bring about a rethinking in the direction that there will be a temptation on the part of the woman head of the country and that this request for electricity price increases will be turned off so to speak, because the population cannot really understand this, the population is very uncertain; this must also be said. In addition, e-control has clearly stated that electricity price increases are not reasonable – and it is not understandable because, instead of any other expensive cost, the cost of reference has been reduced by one third. [[Abg. May. Kogler: In addition, you have been sitting a blue Supervisory Board there for 17 years!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: How long has your blue Supervisory Board been in the EStAG?]] In this sense, I hope there will be a good solution. In any case, we liberals will not tire out to continue to discover this double game of the SPÖ in Styria!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11801	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Grossmann. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11821	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We all remember: Especially in election times, price advantages have been announced for electricity customers, but they have never actually occurred, Mr. Hofmann, despite all your demands. Because the public monopoly on the part of the provider is not a real competition on the market, but merely caught suppliers or private oligopoles, the advantages of the much praised “forces of the free market” for consumers were at least not feasible. Through freely defined power supply contracts based on self-connected general supply conditions, prices are dictated to consumers – and the result was and total electricity price increases in the double-digit percent range! In any case, people have not felt anything about the benefits of the market! The little households are asked shamelessly to cash out! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If already heavily cashed, then responsibility for security of supply in our country should be assumed – that is what we think – as well. However, security of supply is simply not a target! Outages are defined as the calculated risk of even-yet-adequate. Nothing will happen already, obviously, is the credo of energy policy, if one can speak of such a one at all. The fact that the lights have not yet gone out – as was the case in the US or Italy, for example – is probably due to more happiness than to reason. Especially in the south The situation in Austria is particularly precarious: Population density, industry, especially in car clusters, creates enormous demand, as the Federal Minister has correctly recognized. But what is your answer? – One simply locks up production plants! In Styria, we are faced with the closure of the third caloric power plant, which ÖDK Voitsberg, which preserves in 2006, is supposed to be practically shut down, but is not to be torn down, but rather to prevent any further economic development in the region of West Styria as an industrial ruin. That is what you call responsible energy and economic policy, Mr Bartenstein?- Oh, my God! Further scenarios – whether with biomass or mixed combustion – have not even been considered, although a study has shown that to be realistic. One should think that responsibility for economic development and job security will be taken over in our country. However, instead of reducing the loss of production, as far as possible, which secures high-quality jobs in the country, you rely on imports alone. “Social is what creates work,” you said in the morning. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: That's right!]] Yes, it is! In this sense, you can only judge your policy as massively unsocial! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Energy is becoming a speculation asset, and the Austrian power lobby wants to be strongly involved, at the expense of consumers and at the expense of the environment, because everything is fed in: nuclear power from the most questionable sources. Your home country of Styria, Minister Bartenstein, is increasingly being downgraded to the electricity import country; there is no value for independent and environmentally friendly domestic production. [[Abg. Steibl: This is also your home country!]] The Styria is also my home country, is also your home country – and I feel it is particularly unfortunate that there is no value for environmental production in the country. [[Abg. Steibl: There you have to stay with the thing!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11919	The next item is the report by Mr Oellinger. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11952	Minister, I have to disappoint you: The Styria is not my home country, but a popular holiday country of mine. I like to go to the Styria – if you’re calming it! [[Abg. Steibl: (demonstrativ acclaiming) Bravo!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Finally something positive!]] But that is still not the point, Federal Minister Bartenstein. Don't try to get in touch with me! It's about the “unbundling” – and that's something else. [[Rejoicing]] Mr Federal Minister, I must say quite honestly: If there was any doubt as to the right of this mistrust request, you would have scattered it, actually by a side-by-side nature. I observe this with interest, but in fact I do not think it right, and I also tell you why: If you, Mr Bartenstein, are taking a debate on the ElWOG, which is linked to a debate on a motion for a distrust and therefore, of course, labour market policy, in order to point out more or less the joy of harm to the conflict between GPA or within the trade unions, that is, as I think, not a good basis for a Minister of Labour and Economic Affairs, who would actually have the task of fostering and promoting social relations in our country! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That's the point: I believe that there is also a bad advice; just as it is not an opposition to respond to the unemployment figures with pleasure on this issue, and we do not! Since I would like to express little interest in the ElWOG, but in fact I would like to take the principle of unbundling out of the ElWOG into the subject that I would like to discuss with you, Mr Bartenstein, on the occasion of this distrust request, I might start with the following: Unbundling – Unbundling. What is to be good for the energy industry does not have to apply to other areas. But perhaps, Mr Federal Minister, since you are not only responsible for the economy, but also for work, you should consider the unbundling as a principle also for your ministry. That would be an idea, too! We also assumed that the combination of economy and work may not have the desired synergies. They have always claimed that this has synergies in terms of work, in terms of employment, in relation to the economy in general. Now let's take the cut: Employment stagnated! – It is indeed stagnating, Mr Federal Minister, and on that, the fine figures of the main association of social security institutions cannot change, in which the persons employed by the self-employed are also included in the persons who are on child care, regardless of whether they have worked before or not. This is also the case for the unemployed, who are employed at once. In this number, the present servants also appear, even though they are not self-employed, but do a duty to the State. If one calculates all these persons and then calculates them away again, then one comes up with a very sober record of these four years, which this Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour exists. There's the end of it: The number of employees has not increased net since 2000! That is depressing, Minister of State! They themselves have pointed out within the current hour that, in fact, through accession to the European Union, through all the growth effects that have also caused the enlargement of the Economic Union, an increase in employment would have been expected. This has actually happened. Only: The balance sheet is neutral in the final effect 2004. That is to say, we have exchanged the workers we gained through accession and through the consequences of accession and enlargement with losses on the other side, and there is zero in the final effect. So there is no increase in employees. It looks very bad with regard to the unemployed, Federal Minister. We now have more unemployed people in Austria. We can't get over it: In Austria unemployment has been rising for years! But this has happened under your responsibility as Minister of Labour. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now I do not say, Mr Federal Minister, that you, only you are responsible for this increase in unemployment, that would be wrong, but you have also contributed to this as a Federal Minister who has over the years – and you should read your own press releases or those of your resort – and that month after month, to which, in some cases, truly rising unemployment figures have said nothing but the words that this rise is still below the European average, the increase has stabilized, it has been at high level, but it has been flattened, and if the increase continues to flatten, perhaps in the next month, then we can give warning. But there is nothing, Minister of State, that would be justified in depriving! I have only one point left, beyond the unemployment chapter, which is youth unemployment. – It is true that the number mentioned by Mr Broukal is, if you wish, about the sum of the total number of registered youth unemployed. You just have to see which age groups you count in. You just counted one in. I also charge the young adults for that. Then it's right with the 50,000. Mr Federal Minister, you know as well as I do that the 50,000 registered unemployed among young people are only the top of the iceberg. We have much more youthful unemployed than are registered. We have many unemployed young people who are not registered as unemployed because they have not yet had the opportunity to enter unemployment insurance. If you go here as a responsible Minister of State and say: The Broukal is not right with its figures, no, they are not voting, we are in Europe in total positive leaders in youth unemployment!, then I must say to you: This is not correct and it is not appropriate for a minister responsible for economic and labour! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] It is simply not appropriate for you to react in this way, Minister of State! – You can discuss with us by saying: I've got this, this, and that's what I'm trying to do! Then we can discuss whether these measures were appropriate. But you didn't try! Mr Federal Minister, you also know quite well that these measures concerning unemployment in general and in relation to youth unemployment in particular – I do not want to say now, are completely unnecessary, because then you could go back and, of course, derive from the fact that the oillinger is a shameless exaggeration – usually hardly suitable for a good qualification of young people. In recent years, they have discontinued all the measures that would have been necessary, particularly for youth problems in the labour market, such as high school diplomas. There are hardly any more offers where young people who have failed in school or who have completed their schooling without a degree have the opportunity to re-enact this degree. This would, for example, be a measure we need to discuss. One should not always renew the training courses from year to year. There are young people who have spent the third or fourth year in these job coachings or similar courses. This is not a perspective that we offer young people when we put them into any job coachings, orientation courses, training courses every year, only because we are glad that they are away from the street! The young people have a right to a perspective – but not just them! We need a different approach to unemployment, and you have failed, Mr Federal Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e12046	Mr Broukal spoke in favour of an actual correction. Mr deputies, start the actual correction by replaying the claim to be corrected.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e12071	Mr. Martin Bartenstein meant that he had compared the research rate of the mid-1990s with the forecast research rate of this year, and had this comparison added that this year's research rate was more than half of what it was in our time of government – he said: in yours; say: in the SPÖ time of government. - That's not true! I'm correcting: In the last full year of the SPÖ government period, in 1999, the research rate was 1.96 percent of the national income. The increase to 2.27 percent is therefore 16.5 percentage points and not, as Mr Bartenstein claims, almost half.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e12105	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Gartlehner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e12124	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! This is precisely the problem we have with the Minister for Labour and Economic Affairs Martin Bartenstein again and again, namely that of his statistical Data – as with other collaborators; I am thinking of the Ministry of the Interior – are, as it were, very much baptized. If one speaks of such an R & D quota for the coming year, as the Minister has done, then one must also say that the biggest increase this year will be from the recalculation of statistics. It has been tried, with all its strength and creativity, to develop the data at official level so as to get to these quotas, rather than to do so through real research and development orders. Of course, it is good that there are the R & D measures that have recently been decided. That's not a question at all! However, there is still a strong lack of organisational structure. There is no political responsibility under a ministry or in the person of a minister or minister, but there are still five ministers responsible for research in Austria. As we know from the past, that's not necessarily... [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] I am also thinking of the Minister for Agriculture, who, of course, also has a lot of research resources available, which have not yet been taken into account. I believe that we – I come back to the topic of ElWOG – are not only experiencing an organisational change through the unbundling, but we are also experiencing a decoupling of electricity consumption from growth, from the economy throughout Europe. In the next few years, electricity consumption will be much higher than economic data, macroeconomic data, which show growth rates. My question is: What measures do you plan to take to find other ways to obtain capacity next to the unbundling? Is there a double strategy of public authorities by saying: We do not want nuclear power plants, but we are very interested that Mochovce is still being built because we will need this power!Unknown term type: "%s".? Mr Federal Minister, would I be interested in how you are currently appreciating this situation?
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e12175	The next item is the speech by Mr Steindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e12193	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, After so much polemic on the part of the opposition party that I had to listen to here today, I would like to try to address a little bit of the real issue. With the current government template, we are taking a further step towards electricity market liberalisation. Its origin is electricity market liberalisation in the 1985 European Single Market Programme. At that time, the central role of the electricity sector in the competitiveness of the European economy was recognised, as energy costs were a significant part of the cost of production, particularly in the information sector, as well as in steel, chemistry and paper. In order to make market economy mechanisms more effective in the European electricity market, the EU Parliament and the Energy Ministers decided after long discussions in 1996 to open the Internal Electricity Market Directive and instructed Member States to open 35 percent of their electricity markets by 2003. On this basis, Austria, with the Electricity Economic and Organisation Act adopted by the National Council in 1998, was initially only insignificant. ==References====External links==* Official website In October 2001, however, all electricity customers will soon be able to join the ranks of pioneers in liberalising the electricity market in Europe. This started a new era for the electricity industry and its customers – the era of competition. This amendment to the Electricity Economic and Organisation Act here serves to further adapt to the EU Directive on common rules for the internal electricity market. Although the need for change is small, most of it is already anticipated by the ElWOG. Adjustment needs remain only when distribution network operators are unbundled. The decomposition provisions shall be anchored as a concession requirement for distribution network operators. Existing vertically integrated electricity undertakings are required to take organisational decomposition measures until 1. January 2006 to make reference to a company to which the concession is to be transferred in the event of compliance with the concession requirements. This seems to me to be objective and procedural economics in terms of content.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e12242	Next item is the report by Mr Zweytick. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e12260	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister of State! High house! It has already been pointed out clearly and clearly in this debate, and I would just like to add a few comments. First of all, with regard to growth and strength, I would like to remind you that Austria is first and foremost in Europe in terms of growth strength. This is a fact, and we should be glad that we are doing so well, as we are doing more than the other countries in the EU. This number one doesn't come from somewhere. You should recognize that here, too. You too, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, know how difficult it is to achieve the necessary growth in times like this and to fulfill all the wishes of the people. The same applies to youth unemployment, which you think is important to young people and how little you do for them. In this area too, Austria has been extremely successful, because in Europe too, it is the number one issue. I would also like to remind you that within Europe Styria has the lowest youth unemployment rate. This too speaks for a good work in the Styria. So they should not always criticise the Styrian economic policy, as several colleagues here today have done in several respects of the opposition. That is why I would like to say because it is important to be honest when talking about the facts about the situation in Austria. That's what we want! Here in this high house and in this place you should also give a place to honesty. We all do nothing good if we do not give any room to honesty, because we ultimately work on behalf of the population, for our country. We should put our brains in order to make everyone in our country better instead of polemizing and pouring the other party or government here, as the SPÖ is doing with the mistrust request. It is a pity for this time, because time is money, but also electricity costs money, and here in this house there is a lot of electricity. It does not seem to be the sun in here, but it is the neon tubes up there that flow this bright light. Bright light for bright heads – this is a slogan that has launched a successful economic policy in Styria, which is now being continued. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If the capacity is too small and the lines are too weak, it is not because the electricity dissolves in the air, but because of that because there is simply Styrian economic policy behind it: more companies, more jobs, more orders. But that also requires more strength and this creates more need! Therefore, this is also a sign of good economic and location policy in Styria. Of course, the pipes are old and need to be strengthened. This is now the intention, which is also being driven forward with the support of the Federal Minister. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You know the EIA procedure, the environmental impact assessment procedure, and that is now in place until the end of May, that is now being regulated, but – you should know that too – not by passing over it or simply leaning back and criticizing yourself and otherwise doing nothing else as the SPÖ is doing, especially in Styria, but by talking to people in the regions where we are very likely to check the routes, the variants. This also concerns the replacements and, of course, the wiring. It's going on today and it's okay. We believe that this is important because the environment is also important for us. The location of life is not only a business location, but also a residential location. This is taken into account in this EIA procedure. Something happens, but unfortunately God is far too late. One could have done this much, much earlier, at other times, where there were other German Chancellors, other finance ministers, other energy ministers. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – This also applies to Styria; I would just like to point this out. The Styria and the People's Party make policy with the people in the regions. It is not so fast because one has a dialogue to unite as many interests as possible in one. But simply leaning out how the SPÖ does it here, and just commenting on everything and saying how it should be done and what it is, that is no help in solving this problem in the Styria and also no help for the people there. I would like to quote the managing director of the SPÖ-Steiermark here, but it's actually a shame about the time, I don't do it at all, but I'd rather tell you a few important things because you've mixed these things with the EStAG here. You must be careful: If you sit in the glasshouse, don't throw stones! – If someone has acted and acts in Styria, it is Mrs. Klasnic and not her deputy Voves. This has to be said quite clearly here! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] When it comes to noise loss: Who threw out who? – Finally, on account of responsibility, Mrs. Klasnic! You know who? Chairman of the Supervisory Board Heinz Hofer. Do you know who that is, Mr Heinz Hofer? – Today still the great SPÖ finance genius, the financial officer of this party, SPÖ, in Styria. We've been acting here – we often say in the Styria about it. This was ultimately the beginning of the end: that one has revealed scandals there, which had a culture that existed in the EStAG, but for which primarily red responsibilities In the event of a breach of the principle of equal treatment for Today they are somewhere: throw out. This has been brought as a sanier. But that goes on. That's up to the board of directors. Do you know a Mr Heinzl? In the Volksmund one says in the Styria: Heinzl-Hofer. Also a red board that was “shot”. That is where the head of the state traded, and it is a restructuring in progress. Unfortunately, my time is over...,but I still have to say a lot. [[Rejoicing]] I think you know it anyway. But you certainly don't know one thing: The people in this country and also the people in the Styria know who is acting, and they also know who is only polemizing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e12387	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. I ask the honourable Members to take a seat, because we are voting on the draft law and the title and receipt in 415 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is adopted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – This is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 507 of the Supplements - Appendix 1 - on measures to assess the legal and organisational unbundling of distribution network operators. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously adopted. (E 49.) Finally, we are voting on the resolution on the 507 attached to the Committee's report - Appendix 2 - on the urgent need for the expansion of the high-voltage network in Austria. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is adopted by a majority. (E 50.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gusenbauer, colleagues, on the failure of confidence in the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour under Article 74(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act. In view of the need for such a decision by the National Council in accordance with Article 74(2) of the Constitutional Treaty, I expressly note that half of the Members are present. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to accept it. – This is the minority, and this rejects the request. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Neugebauer! ÖAAB!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] 4. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on amendment 374/A (E) by Johannes Schweisgut, Mares Rossmann, colleagues on long-term coordination of semester holidays (508 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e12468	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker was Dr Mitterlehner. – You are speaking, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e12492	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The problem is relatively easy to outline: It is due to the holiday arrangement and thus the definition of holidays for the state of Vienna and the federal state of Lower Austria for the next year from 7 to 12. February – that is, a week later than this year – the problem of holidays in some countries of the European Union, especially in the Netherlands, at that time. Therefore, the wish of the tourism industry, especially in the western Länder, may the holidays be postponed by one week. The whole thing has been dramatized relatively strongly in the media, and today we are even talking about it in the National Council. I am actually not happy that we are doing so, because in the final effect there is no competence of the National Council, and it is not necessary to discuss this here, because the legal situation is quite clear. This is set out in the School Time Act 1978, and then there is the possibility of moving back this week by a week or a week for foreign policy reasons. In order to achieve this, however, an application is necessary, which must be made from the respective state – either by the Council of State or by the Council of State Schools, depending on the type of school. However, such a request has not been made. That is why the whole discussion has taken place at levels which are not actually responsible for it. The impression has arisen that it might be the Ministry of Economic Affairs or the Ministry of Education responsible for the completion and coordination of this matter. The various arguments have now also been exchanged. The reason why an application is necessary is precisely these arguments: because one needs a preliminary period, a preparation time, on the one hand, so that the economy, so that all affected parents and students can adapt to change, and on the other hand, so that one can find consensus, because the interests are different. What is quite logical about the tourism industry in the West – one would like to benefit from it this week – is partly different for the tourism industry in Lower Austria. In Lower Austria, one sees the possibility that if the rooms are occupied in the west by Dutch holiday guests, one might be able to do business in Lower Austria. When I move the holidays back a week, I also change the times for trade. It would have meant that one would have had less available in the winter sports area just a week. Ladies and gentlemen! This resolution is actually aimed more or less at all those involved. If you want to do something, you have to coordinate, you have to find the corresponding consensus. You also have to start in time. If one finds a consensus, it also means that one cannot implement one's own interests 100 percent, but probably find a compromise somewhere. In my opinion, there is no longer any possibility at present, because the application is only made for 2005. Therefore, the appeal, the notice for the following years: There, where this problem appears again, a little more careful and with a little more time-consuming progress. Then you may find – or hopefully – a problem solution in the interests of all concerned.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e12544	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Hoscher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e12562	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My colleague, Mr Mitterlehner, I fully agree on the careful application of the economy; perhaps it is also possible in the Chamber of Commerce that the applications should be made in good time. But where I do not agree, and what I cannot understand honestly, is the rejection of the competence of the National Council for this matter. It has been pointed out that the school-time law is relevant to this. My knowledge is that the school-time law is a federal law, and therefore I very much see a competence of the National Council. It is true that the application has not been made. This does not prevent us from changing, for example, the school-time law. A corresponding request lies in the teaching committee. – This was also proposed by a number of representatives of the Chamber of Commerce, but I would like to ask you to make this up and discuss it in your own Chamber. In any event, unlike you, I am very happy that the request is being discussed here, because this request does not refer to 2005 but to the long-term coordination of semester holidays. I believe that this is a matter that we can all agree with, in particular because this request provides that all stakeholders should be brought to a table, i.e. not “only” the tourism and leisure industry, but in particular the school and parent representatives, and should be tried to achieve consensusal solutions. We can accept this request, in particular, because it corresponds to our own request to postpone it with one month's delay. We could have responded earlier. For us, there is no doubt that – and I would like to make this clear – that pedagogical arguments should take precedence – that is why our request is also in the teaching committee – and that there should be a very strong discussion of educational arguments and needs. In addition, I think it is important, but also important, to address the interests of those families who, as they have children in school, are determined to spend their winter holidays during the semester week. However, I do not agree with any planned economic approaches that the parents who want to go on winter leave with their school-based children should report somewhere that they want to do this, and then they are assigned by a job, perhaps the Chamber of Commerce, in which federal country they can do it, because the capacities are, for example, just in Lower Austria. I wouldn't join him. I'm pleading that the families can make vacations where they want to go. The fact is, there's going to be an agglomeration. I only remember that only the five German states, which together with Lower Austria and Vienna in 2005, affected about 22.5 million inhabitants – in Germany alone. This means that we will have appropriate traffic policy problems, at a time when the weather is not so good. We will also have capacity problems. This means that especially those families who already depend on going on vacation this week, which is already more expensive, because high season is, will also have to pay supplements. You should analyze all of this more precisely. I am very glad that this is based on a four-year period – for which one should discuss this – but I also believe that in this context one should not only deal with the semester holidays, but also with holiday periods at all, exchange and discuss various arguments. There are, for example, proposals from Vorarlberg for autumn holidays and proposals for the collection of school autonomous certain days off. All of this should be seen in the overall context, including in the European context as a whole. It is clear that you will not jump up in Germany or also Holland joyfully and will be given holiday periods by Austria. But you should still discuss that. The trade union has also held talks with Dutch colleagues, Belgian colleagues and German colleagues, and these discussions are also continued. I'm glad that this is done on a different level. The tourism policy side should not be completely forgotten in this context, because experts have calculated that this group will bring losses or damage to the hotel industry alone in this one week of 2005 or around € 180 million, in the cable car industry of around € 70 million. When I think about how many jobs there are, I have to say: That is not quite insignificant to us either. But it would certainly be possible to get to what we had in principle agreed in a number of debates – across party borders – that is to say the confession that we want not only a season extension, but actually a year-round tourism, and then, of course, holiday times play a significant role. In this sense, we shall vote in favour of this motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e12620	The next item is Mrs Rossmann's speech. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e12639	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I think we all have to admit – and the emphasis is really on the word “all” – that we have not all come to know in good time what this means. this holiday concentration actually comes to us. We have pointed out this, but also too late. Of course, my accusation is that the affected states of Vienna and Lower Austria, in particular, have not recognized in time that they did not say in the sense of their own holiday regulations and in the sense of the parents and children in these federal states: Maybe we'll move! Mr Mitterlehner, I would like to correct you: It would not have been a shift of a week, but in this case only by two days. It would have been possible to do so with a little common will, especially of these federal states. But the problem is, I already admit, multilayered. For purely pedagogical reasons, one can say quite: Three weeks, from the Christmas holidays to the beginning of the semester holiday week, are too short. But tourism-related aspects – they have already been addressed by Mr Hoscher – are also to be mentioned: Failures, economic damage, congestion, which are unacceptable for all travellers, but especially for children and parents in the car. We now only need to calculate the winter weather: Additional hours in the car are necessary in the event of bad weather conditions, because you are snowed or in storage. All this has to be seen in the context of the fact that this week six German states – the strongest of them: Rhineland-Westphalia and Bavaria – and the Benelux countries will have holidays at the same time as Vienna and Lower Austria. There will be problems; they are preprogrammed. But we stand here today with this proposal to prevent at least all of this in the future. I also have constructive proposals for better coordination in the future: Why – and the hotel industry would be flexible – must be a arrival from Saturday to Saturday? Why can't be on Thursday or on Friday school, for example Niederösterreich on Thursday, Vienna on Friday? That would be a certain unbundling. Another way would be to create intervals in the holiday weeks. Why do you have to go to Turnus? Have an interval and the other one in the next week, where there is a traffic jam again? Why can't you switch intervals? Why can't you also disconnect the testimonies from the winter holidays? Who says I have to get the witness and then go on vacation? It can also be reversed. I believe that there are many interesting possibilities for discussion here, and we will also need innovative solutions, also from the point of view of the increasing flow of travel from the enlargement countries. The concentration on three or four weeks in winter with the enlargement countries, which also make winter holidays in Austria, is simply specified. That is, we will have a lively discussion here, and this is not only to be held throughout Austria, but also across the EU – also within the meaning of the enlargement countries. That is why we are very glad that this proposal is also supported by the Social Democrats. I think this is about an Austrian consensus, which is about the well-being of our children and the quality of their holidays.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e12705	The next item is the speech by Mr Brosz. – Ladies and gentlemen, we still have about 3 minutes until the interruption.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e12723	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Minister! High house! First of all, I have to say that although some have taken the word ‘pedagogical arguments’ into their mouth, I am surprised that the proposal will be dealt with in the Economic Committee. The intention is also quite clear: With pedagogical arguments the whole thing, I say, unfortunately had nothing to do. I already agree that there seems to be different views in all political groups. If Mr Hoscher stresses that his request contained pedagogical arguments, I must say: I tried again – and in vain – to find which one. At the same time, I also read to colleagues at the APA, who meant that four weeks between Christmas holidays and semester holidays would be useful. – By the way, I share this argument. The request made by the SPÖ to the Committee would, however, be quite contrary to that request. [[President Dr. Khol shall take over the chairmanship.]] I think that when you talk about vacations, first and foremost it is in the foreground how a school year is designed, what makes sense for students, what makes sense for families, and then you can also talk about how economic, tourist arguments should play a role. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In this context, it is quite possible to support the proposal, as it will take longer and better co-ordinated action. At the same time, however, I would like to talk about a problem which we are increasingly aware of: the problem of the entire school-autonomous free days which have now been extended to holidays, autumn holidays on the one hand, window days and weekend holidays on the other. In doing so, it is completely in the background, as is actually the case with the families. If someone has about two or three children who go to different schools, and each one has a completely different holiday arrangement, first of all, when talking about tourist arguments, one will have a problem if one has to leave half of the family at home, and on the other hand, if you observe the care situation, you will see in which problems families that somehow have to organize or handle it. In this way, we would like to support the proposal, as it is now present, as opposed to the Committee. I say this again: The reason was also that this request should not have been dealt with in the Committee on Education, the Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. The intention to coordinate longer-term is welcome. I would just like to express once again our intention that we say: Educational arguments really first – and economically you can still take with you as second! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e12770	Mr Brosz, have you made a request now? [[Abg. Brosz disdained.]] I am now interrupting the negotiations on item 4 of the agenda, so that the required examination of a urgent request in accordance with the Rules of Procedure can take place at 3 p.m., that is, now. Request for urgent procedure Dr Eva Glawischnig, colleagues in the Federal Chancellor on silence and inactivity on the Slovak Government's expansion plans for Mochovce, the extension of the life-time of Bohunice V1 and the European nuclear exodus (397/A) (E)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e12808	We come to the urgent treatment of the self-employed application 397/A (E). As he has now approached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e12952	I give the floor to Mrs Dr. Glavisch as an applicant for the reasons of the urgent request. According to § 74a para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed their term of office for 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e12974	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Minister! High house! In the run-up, Mr Bundeskanzler, I would like to say: I'm very glad you're here today. I would also ask you to listen very attentively to the remarks made on this urgent request today and not to print in the documents or to draw cartoons, but simply to listen! I have the impression that you did not get into the drama of what happened on the weekend, although it burns very heavily under the skin of the Austrian people and concerns them massively. Mr Bundeskanzler, I am now expressly saying to you once again what has happened since last weekend, because you have obviously not considered it worth taking a position on the incidents and saying or clarifying something. [[Abg. May. Molterer: We too can read!]] The Slovak Minister of Economic Affairs has announced that the Mochovce nuclear power plant is definitely being built. [[Abg. May. Molterer: We also read newspapers!]] Slovakia, which is already a power exporter, must at least build up these two blocks, which are still incomplete at the moment – which was actually a great victory of the Austrian anti-atomic movement. The closure of the two Bohunice V1 reactors will then be followed by the Minister of Economic Affairs a day later, if it is once again considered that one will come back to it again that this closure will have to be negotiated once again. In this way we have two additional huge problems within two days: Mochovce is to be finished and Bohunice V1, one of the most dangerous rectors in the world, is not to be shut down as agreed! – You have so far not taken a position on this issue! Why are Bohunice V1 and Mochovce such a big problem for the Austrian population? – I have received dozens of calls and e-mails in recent days, and I would like to expressly explain it to you once again: Mochovce is a power plant not very far from the Austrian border, it is 150 km from Vienna. In the event of an accident in Mochovce, the Federal Capital of Vienna would not be evacuable. In the appropriate weather situation, that is to say at East Wind, Vienna would not be evacuable, and only 2% of the population in Vienna have the opportunity to go into shelters at all. [[Abg. Wittauer: This is stupid!]] Similar risk factors to these have been prevented in other countries: A reactor of the same type did not go into operation in Germany after the reunification. At that time it was decided that the same power plant Greifswald is too dangerous and that appropriate safety measures are too complex. That's why it was shut down. However, there is a similar risk in front of the gates of Vienna. The risk involved in this power plant with its two reactors is now to be simply and decisively doubled. A number of specific problems still arise: Not only the type of power plant due to the mixing of East and West technologies is a risk factor, but also the threat of earthquakes: Mochovce is located on an earthquake line, the tremors are relatively close to the surface, and we know the effect of such earthquakes. Mochovce is not designed for earthquakes of this strength. The herds of the previous earthquakes were only 40 kilometres away from Mochovce. But the worst thing is: Mochovce has no containment, that is, it has no protective cover and is not protected from external terrorist attacks. It is also not protected from the fallout that goes from the inside to the outside. This risk is now to be doubled, and you have not found any words to this day! Bohunice, the second Slovak power plant, is considered one of the most dangerous reactors in the world. This is not an assessment shared by environmentalists or greens or environmental movements across Europe, but with regard to Bohunice, the whole world, including the European Commission and the International Atomic Safety Agency, represents the unanimous view that it is one of the most dangerous power plants in the world. As a result, the 1998 European Council also noted the need to close the power plant immediately and immediately. By the year 2000, Slovakia has promised to close it. Then it started. Your first knee: The conclusion was postponed to 2006 to 2008, but the Treaty of Accession states that this closure commitment is primarily binding. The Slovak Government has committed itself to this. However, it is now clearly thought to break EU primary law, that is, constitutional law, and the Treaty of Accession. And you didn't find a word for that! Austria has also paid for this agreement. There is an exit fund initiated by the Commission of the EBRD, in which €90 million has been made available to Slovakia. It is therefore a two-sided agreement: Turn off for money. But this has been announced, and how it continues is open. And even as you continue, it's open. What were the reactions? – For me, your handling with it was always just the tip of the iceberg. On the weekend there was another dam break. This is actually happening through your entire policy, Mr Bundeskanzler, and that is very disappointing! They've been in the Federal Government for a very long time, I've been working in the environmental movement for about the same time, and I've had to say: You've never been interested in the subject. You have never put forward anti-atomic policies and serious, strong initiatives, both at European and bilateral level. The subject has never been a priority for you. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Who led the Temelín negotiations? - Shut up!]] In your term of office, Mr. Federal Chancellor, we had to look at defeat after defeat in Austria. In 1998, when you were Foreign Minister, Mochovce Block 1 went into operation, one year later Mochovce Block 2. In 2000, large investments were made in Krško. In 2000, Temelín 1 went into operation. Temelín 2 went into operation in 2001. – This is such a devastating, devastating balance sheet for someone who has been defining, for 15 years, a key foreign policy and environmental policy, that I almost cannot describe it! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Friend.]] It's a real Déjà-vu experience! Now the pace is increasing again. Now, in turn, one tries to regain terrain from the side of the atomic lobby in Slovakia and in the Czech Republic. And hold your peace again! I have a real Déjà-vu experience! It was the same with Temelín. You kept silent until the end, until a few months before commissioning, and when it was much too late, you only responded weakly. And then it was too late! Now we have the results: There will be four new reactors in front of the Austrian borders, Mr. Bundeskanzler! – I also describe the red and black Federal Government, in which the current Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel was Foreign Minister. [[Abg. May. Molterer: You've described climate now, haven't you?]] Of course! That has been the last ten years, and the balance sheet is dramatic. The subject was never really important to you. I also have the impression that the debate at European level on the European Constitution, the Convention discussion, was not important to you. Her representative at the Farnleitner Convention has never believed in the draft Constitution that it could possibly be possible to trigger the Euratom Treaty from the Constitution. There was a green advance in this respect. You almost didn't believe that was possible. But you have not supported us in this regard! This weekend's failure record continued, and the reactions of the other members of the government were terrifying. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Not this government! That's wrong!]] In view of the Slovak Government's development plans, the Minister for the Environment or Agriculture speaks of prompt reactions: It's a single opinion for the time being. Then he announces an intensive communication process. We already know that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] The Minister for Foreign Affairs is even hiding to speak of an “absolute individual opinion”. – I don’t know what a relative individual opinion is. If you have observed the scene in Slovakia a little bit and have also considered the position of the opposition and the political elite, then they will be able to observe: This is not an individual opinion! I do not know whether the opinion of an economic minister who is clearly questioning the Treaty of Accession can be taken as an individual opinion. This is a blow-off and downplaying, but in no way a very clear definition of how it would have been to be met here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You wanted them to join!]] The Foreign Minister is obviously the only one – together with you, Mr. Bundeskanzler – who actually believes that this is an individual opinion that can and must not be taken seriously. If not immediately very sharp, massive, and with all the possibilities we have, Austrian action is being taken against these plans, the same will happen as last year at Temelín, where we again have to take a defeat. A year ago exactly the same words were to be heard. At that time, this was not called “individual, ” but“ private opinion. ” It was the “private opinion” of the Czech Minister of Economic Affairs, who announced that it would be built up to two, three new blocks in Temelín. I heard exactly the same sentences back then, so I already know them. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You did not support us in our popular desire!]] Once it is said that it is a private opinion, then it will be assured that it is a private opinion and nothing will happen anyway and so on. A few months later, however, exactly this proposal by the then Czech Minister for Industry was included in the energy concept and today, Mrs Partik-Pablé, it has been announced that applications for approval of two additional blocks will be submitted within the term of the year at the Temelín site. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You don't go anywhere, and then sit down and complain!]] Bravo, I can only say. Bravo! The work of recent months has been “excellent”: Draining, not taking seriously, giving the Austrian population calming games, but not a consistent policy to the outside! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is also so unfortunate because this situation is not only so dramatic in bilateral relations but now in Europe as a whole. But at this level, it is done as follows: Toss it off and not take it seriously. At European level, there is a dramatic renaissance of nuclear energy. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: We wanted to injunctify this during the accession negotiations!]] You might be able to watch this a little bit instead of trying to somehow fall into my word! I describe a very dramatic situation. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You're always talking, but if there's anything to do, then you're not here!]] – Let me talk now! We have a renaissance of nuclear energy throughout Europe: A fifth and sixth reactor will be built in Finland, a new reactor will be built in Bulgaria, a debate will be held in France, and the European Constitution will move away from creating something like a European nuclear exodus and a reform of the Euratom Treaty. Mr Bundeskanzler, I would like to ask you what you have actually contributed in the last weeks and months. The initiatives there have moved for me at a very, very diplomatic, halfhearted level. Letters were written, and there and there there was a little conversation. But there was absolutely nothing powerful, and the tip of the iceberg was: Our initiative in the Constitutional Convention was not supported. Her representative, who believed in the failure of this advance or was firmly convinced that this could not work, was very surprised that you could achieve something with commitment, commitment and expertise and with a proper lobbying concept. ==References== In June, we may again face the situation that has opened up here that the promise that the Euratom Treaty will actually be dissolved from the European Constitution is being reversed. In view of this, I ask you: What's your job? What to do Is that really what you're talking about? What is the Foreign Minister doing on all these questions? – I cannot take proper, powerful initiatives. It is also understandable to no one in Austria, which position you actually represent there. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] At European level, not only do we have a major problem with all these new power plant buildings and with the European Constitution, but we also have a problem that you do not follow exactly the great advance, the revision conference, which is now necessary. I do not see any initiative in this regard. In any event, the Euratom Constitutional Treaty must be revised or revised, and I am waiting for your activities with great excitement. As far as the European Presidency, which is due next year, I have never heard of any initiative. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Next year!]] – Thank you for the correction! Federal Chancellor! I haven't heard anything about what you're actually going to do during the 2006 revision. I have to sum up again: You haven't recognized the drama of the situation since Saturday. Obviously, you have no problem at all with the fact that the risk of the Austrian population is doubled precisely in Vienna and especially in Austria, that a power plant, which is considered one of the most dangerous in the world, is not to be shut down in contract and you cannot prove any comprehensible initiatives at European level that you would have seriously tried to revise the Euratom Treaty or supported the initiatives of the Greens. That is why we are making this urgent request today. The points that we are dealing with today are very simple, and it would not be a problem at all to decide, to enforce and to implement this, Mr Bundeskanzler! Point 1 states that you are urgently asked to send an official protest note to the Slovak Government without delay, in which you clarify that these expansion plans are simply and decisively not accepted by Austria. It would be the first time in history that you do this in such early stages. Otherwise, it was always too late, if anything happened at all. This official protest note should also, of course, include that you will not accept the extension of the term for Bohunice, which is illegal and illegal. We're going to have to go on. It calls for you to also make a very clear and unmistakable no on the renegotiations of this Treaty of Accession in the framework of the European Commission with a view to this Slovakian commitment. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I don't think that really hurts. On the contrary: This clear no at European level, as was already the case yesterday by the European Commission, you will, I believe, also be able to do so. Third point – and this is also important in bilateral terms – is: We always attach great importance to the fact that the states operating nuclear power plants are also heavily supported by Austria in the direction of energy partnerships and transition to renewable systems. I hope that the very, very modest and micy partnership we now have with Slovakia will be significantly expanded; this is also an urgent point in our proposal. Last point: Federal Chancellor! I wish you and ask that you, even in the interests of the Austrian people, take seriously the issue of anti-atomic policy and all the work and all the duties involved, and do not always have to make urgent requests to remind you of your obligations to protect the Austrian population, to do everything possible in this context, and to exploit all diplomatic possibilities at bilateral and multilateral level, instead of being silent for days.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e13206	In order to deliver an opinion, the Federal Chancellor spoke. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e13225	High Parliament! Mrs Glawischnig, I believe that you will find no one in the House and also in the Federal Government who agrees with the amendment of the planned closing date of Bohunice or with the extension of Mochovce. To clarify this once from the beginning: In this respect, there is a broad consensus between all of us! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] So it cannot now be said that you are creating a confrontation between the various parties that do not exist, but it is obviously about blaming the government that we would not have done anything that would have been possible and realistic inside. In view of this, I ask you, Mrs Doctor, to say honestly what we should have done differently, because you were always the one – and I have respected it very much – who said: We need to deal with our neighbours in a reasonable way, we must not constantly pick up the veto card, we want to get the neighbouring countries back and we want to ensure that dangerous power plants are closed or insecurely made safer in the way of the negotiation process. That was actually the state of discussion, and in recent years we have tried to implement exactly what is going on and according to best knowledge and conscience. I would therefore ask you not to overlook, on the basis of your legitimate indignation about Mr Rusko's statements, that there have also been other opinions, which have also been published in the Slovak press, that the Commission has already given its opinion and that the Austrian Environment Minister and the Austrian Foreign Minister have expressed their views. I too would like to express my opinion in the course of the discussion here. To say that Austria had done nothing is really absurd! You can't leave it like this: In 1998, as the EU Presidency, we insisted that the issue of nuclear safety had been included for the first time in the accession negotiations with the new Member States, and we made sure that security became a European issue. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That means: We have acted, and there can be no talk of a six-year silence here at all! On the contrary: We have acted, we have addressed the problem, and we have taken it a little further. Furthermore, I do not let the relevant members of the government hang here, whether the Foreign Minister is Benita Ferrero-Waldner or Minister for the Environment Sepp Pröll. Benita Ferrero-Waldner immediately contacted the Slovak Foreign Minister on Monday. Yesterday, the Austrian Minister for the Environment sent a letter to his colleagues and made the Austrian attitude clearly clear to him. Ladies and gentlemen! For Austria, it is quite clear that the Treaty of Accession must be implemented on the spot and on the sideline – there must be no doubt about that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If you want, I will read to you this Treaty of Accession, which we have negotiated. Article 1, Protocol 9 – the famous protocol – literally states: "The Slovak Republic undertakes to grant the reactor 1 of the Bohunice V1 nuclear power plant at the latest by 31 December. On 31 December 2006 at the latest and at the latest at 31 December 2006 and at the latest at 31 December 2006 at the latest. To shut down these reactors and then shut them down.’ Article 2: Conversely, ‘the Slovak Community provides additional financial assistance’, ‘for the period 2004 to 2006’, of ‘90 million. EUR on commitment appropriations’ means ‘to be committed in the same annual tranches’. That is the law in force. It's indictable! And if you are now acting as if no one had said so, I would like to draw your attention to it, ladies and gentlemen, that not only has Austria protested, but also that the European Commission, Filori, the spokesperson of Verheugen, and, above all, Commissioner Loyola de Palacio, responsible for energy policy, has expressly given an opinion on it. There can be no renegotiation. This contract applies! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Moreover, I called in early Mikulaš Dzurinda, my Slovak counterpart, and asked him: How is it that there are apparently several opinions in the government? Foreign Minister Kukan says: Of course we are in favour, of course, of course there are no current expansion plans for the other two Mochovce blocks. – What's the matter now? It is perfectly clear – and this has assured me once again today, colleague of government Dzurinda: Of course, the Treaty of Accession applies with the conclusion data. – Listening So stop to scare the Austrians again! Trust that the commitments which the Union has negotiated and which are fixed in writing and which are open to the European Court of Justice are also truly respected! Play It is not the game of others – we know it – who have repeatedly tried to warm up the same thing and construct a small internal-political conflict where no one is, Madam Members! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Let me tell you something about it: We were those – and I attach great importance to it – who have always said that in the new European Constitution or in new European law, a nation cannot be entitled to choose the form of energy it wants. For good reasons, we Austrians have decided against nuclear energy, against the peaceful use of nuclear power, and others have the same value that they do not get their right cut. That is a very fundamental question. If you think we want to change that, then, please, we need to discuss it widely once! I'm just telling you, because you're pretending to have done things a hundred percent the way you or my colleague Voggenhuber would have wanted it to be: That's not true at all! Everything that we would have wanted to cross-party towards the renegotiation of the Euratom Treaty, towards the revision conference, has not taken place, was not consistent! – And then come here and accuse us that the others have refused this consensus, that is a bit cheap! That's what it's like. It is not necessary, and I believe that the Austrian public is insisting that we defend our right not to have nuclear power plants as well as others' attitude that they do not shut down their nuclear power plants from the outset. But one thing has been achieved in the negotiations: We have maintained with tenacity and with a great deal of persistence that three nuclear power plants are locked up and that five nuclear power plants, especially those located in our immediate neighborhood, are made much safer and that there are billions of schilling or hundreds of millions of € to secure. By the way, we are now putting in place a joint initiative of our Foreign Minister Benita Ferrero-Waldner and, as I still hope, a green German Foreign Minister Joseph Fischer – we have already won some countries – that we will have a revision conference for the Euratom Treaty. – Maybe I can help if it doesn't work so well in the interpartial, interpartial. – It is about a joint Austrian-German initiative, in which blue, black, green and, as I suppose, social democrats – in Germany they are quite in power – are also involved in order to realize something reasonable in common. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Even on the issue of the new issue – because there are no standards of security within the European Union, which I very much regret – it has been achieved that the European Court of Justice has now expressed a new knowledge and that the question of security will become a European competence. This is, I believe, a point which is very essential and which, above all, represents the beginning of a path towards uniform European safety standards, which I hope will come to pass. One last point – because in the debate on Europe the same issues are being discussed over and over again; the issue of nuclear safety is only one of them. I would also like to make it clear here once again as to the availability of Austrian water: We were those who, both in the Constitutional Treaty and in previous decisions – in Nice, in Amsterdam – have enforced that the rule of unanimity remains in this respect. That was the basis for no one to blame us on this question: We decide on our water – no one else! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: But the Swoboda knows!]] If today a European campaigner has shown public concern and meant: Yes, but then you can do a business with it!, then I want to stop it: Excuse me, but with Austrian mineral water or Austrian beer or Austrian fruit juices, we will hopefully still be able to do a business! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Call the ÖVP: That's good!]] This is not yet an unAustrian course of action, that there are some companies that benefit very well from it. But: No privatisation in this area, no opening up of general provisions, quite the contrary! Austrian initiative – confirmed last week by the Irish Presidency –: Public services, public services and public services remain at the disposal of the countries, the regions or, for example, of the municipalities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The same is true of the Trans-European Networks: It's been accused of having too little investment. – The truth is: We have invested 50 percent more! Before the year 2000, there was a TEN project, now we have six TEN projects on it! Two weeks ago Hubert Gorbachden signed a joint agreement with Italy that the construction of the Brenner base tunnel with €6 billion will be launched. Austria has enforced a mandatory genetic engineering production label, which has been in force since last week. – We have taken seriously the concerns of people in the labour market: There are seven years of transitional period. – Limit the Austrian EU contribution by 1 percent of the gross domestic product. – And: Common initiatives on asylum and security policy. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: This is an important contribution!]] Very interesting: Since accession, the number of asylum seekers has fallen by two thirds. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Eben!]] I'm saying this because you see it: This project Europe is alive! It works! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] And those who believe in this project, who are able to work with it professionally and work with the institutions, also carry out more, also for Austria – and that's what it's all about. June.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e13378	We are going into the debate. Under the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes. Total time of each club: 25 minutes. First speaker is Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e13399	Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor! Mr President. Minister! I have followed your opinion with great attention on the facts on nuclear power stations at our borders presented by Mr Glavischnig. They were – I tell you quite honestly – disappointing as ever. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Go, go, go!]] Obviously, you are not aware of what is likely to have to be strongly supported here in the House: If this initiative by the Slovak Minister of Economic Affairs finds only a sound of approval or if it meets a wall of silence, [[Abg. May. Molterer: Don't do it!]] Ladies and gentlemen, then we have to expect a breach of dams in all these matters. [[Abg. May. Molterer: No one's silent! Everyone refuses!]] You have to be aware that in Bulgaria too, it is already being discussed that these closing data will not be used as a result of the fact that we have not yet done anything to build up another energy future in our own country, that we will of course have to negotiate the need to extend this period once again. The same applies, of course, to the Baltic States. Ladies and gentlemen! If not very specific and very clear – and much stronger than you, Federal Chancellor, have formulated – limits are set for these initiatives and these are clearly rejected, then open the doors for a huge wave of new excuses, renegotiations on the use of nuclear power, especially in the candidate countries, but also in Europe at all. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This dam break would be a disaster for Europe's energy future. This dam break would seriously affect the development opportunities for renewable energy, and this dam break would also cause all fears about EURATOM to come true – fears which I clearly want to repeat here again Under the cover of security investments, the life of nuclear power plants will be extended. [[Abg. May. Molterer: You fear, and the Federal Chancellor acts! That's the fine difference!]] And the security debate in the European Union will also be closely monitored, because, ladies and gentlemen, what is currently under the great issue of 'atomic safety' as a proposal for a directive is far too weak to be acceptable at all! This has been done under the pressure of the atomic lobby and would not help us any further. Ladies and gentlemen! It is also to be observed very centrally: In the field of internal security, they have represented with vehemence what measures must all be taken to limit the risks of terrorism. – Here you have a huge, inestimable risk potential right in front of the doorstep. As you know, the nuclear power plants under discussion are not safe from accidents or terrorist attacks, for example from the air. But this danger is being pushed into the corner. That's why you don't care enough. Minister! This is really a direct security interest of the Austrian people, but also of the European people. Here we are playing pioneers for all those who feel rightly threatened by this technology, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Federal Chancellor! You said the closure was consensus. - Yes, still! It is still consensus, if not one step after another. [[Abg. May. Molterer:... is she always consensus!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Molterer.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Chancellor said that everything would be clear in terms of EURATOM and the European Constitution. – Have you noticed that an attempt by the Legal Service has taken place through the back door of the EURATOM Treaty, which we have laboriously divided out of the overall proposal in the constitutional process last night? [[Abg. May. Molterer: And for whom do we have responsibility, or how?]] [[Mr Fekter and Mr Kopf.]] Do you – and here I also have to strongly criticize our foreign minister – also take the attitude that it is, anyway, only a single opinion that we represent that it is not worth it anyway, because we have only opponents and we do not listen to anyone anyway? – That’s not true! There are other countries, and especially in the States, which have the highest distrust and legitimate distrust of nuclear energy. [[Abg. May. Molterer: So I remember the French Greens who rejected the Austrian initiatives! French Greens against Austrian...atomic politics!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you quote the French Greens here, Mr Molterer, I could now list representatives of your People's Party Group at European level at a speaking time of about 20 minutes, who are vehement defenders and advocates of nuclear energy. [[Abg. Scheibner: But you only have 10!]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: What is this argument?]] Sage You once: Have you somehow lost sight of the balance? [[Abg. May. Molterer: What is this argument?]] Have you lost sight of the fact that you in your European People's Party have now become involved in all the forces – including the absolutely anti-European – to bring together only later some majority? Mr Molterer! [[Abg. May. Molterer: That must not be true! Does it really want to go to the European Parliament?]] If you think the European People's Party is such a brilliant union of Christian-social parties, please look at the British Conservatives, please look at the Berlusconis party, then you will see in which political family you are in! [[Abg. May. Molterer: But they are not members of the People's Party!]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: But they are not members of the EPP! – You lack the basic knowledge! That must not be true!]] You quote your colleagues with enthusiasm at European level, and you always say that all of this would work so well. Mr Molterer, you do not need to play with words now – I know their speeches, but above all those of our Foreign Minister and Chancellor on this subject. [[Abg. Steibl: These are good speeches!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Great!]] Do not hide yourself from your responsibility in the matter of EURATOM, because Austria – and this is an obligation to the population – has a pioneering role to play! [[Abg. Steibl: “Schlut”? What's that word?]] [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: Strange word choice!]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Here Austria cannot discharge its responsibility, and on it I value it! Until recently, we have had the image in Europe: Yes, on certain questions Austria represents a consistent, consistent line, which also implements something like sustainability in politics. Mr Molterer! Unfortunately, we have lost this image! It's your party, and it's the liberals who bear the responsibility for it. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Head.]] If you remain consistent in terms of this attack on the Accession Treaty, you may be able to regain a small part of this credibility, which has been largely lost at European level. [[Abg. Scheibner: I am very surprised that you argue so militaryly!]] If you do not act here, you are in a completely wrong family. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That must not be true!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's embarrassing!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Mrs. Lichtenberger, this is not worthy of yours what you are doing there, excuse me!]] They are actually on a path that you should leave at the earliest, because the Austrian population is counting on you, as far as the question of protection from nuclear hazards and the European exit from nuclear energy is concerned. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Mrs. Lichtenberger, that's not you!]] [[Call unto the liberals: O yea!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: That must not be true!]] But it is not only the Austrian population, it is a broad majority in all European states who want to guarantee safety from the dangers of nuclear energy, before the so-called peaceful use of nuclear energy by their governments. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] To conclude: With a view to Austria raising a single voice when it comes to the question of nuclear energy, one weakens oneself! And you also grumble all the alliance partners you have and can have in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e13819	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Head. Speech time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e13837	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: “Dear community!”]] [[Rejoicing with representatives of the SPÖ and the Greens.]] There is certainly no country that has more consistently renounced the use of nuclear energy in its own country, even under the failure of a nuclear power plant already built, and there is certainly no country and no government in Europe that is fighting more committed to Europe's exit from nuclear energy! [[Abg. Oil: The population!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And we are very often dealing with the limits of the loadability of bilateral or multilateral relations. But we do it out of conviction, and we do it with sustainability, without any deviation from this path in recent years. And: We are also successful! Remember Temelín! Think of what our Federal Chancellor reached in milk at the time. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Yes, we see that!]] Surrounded by countries in which there is no consciousness or at least no majority awareness of the non-use of nuclear energy as we do, in such an environment, with the help of our current clubman Willi Molterer, it has succeeded in reducing a concession to the Czechs, establishing an agreement that is currently minutely, point by point and by the Czechs – and that is to be recognized! – is also observed. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger:... he has achieved expansion plans!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mrs. Glavischnig! But one thing bothers me: So far, we have always or at least found a consensus in this House when it comes to resolutions on applications, but it is indisputable – and is unfortunately being made abuseful now in election times – that, nevertheless, one party is being tried as the better anti-atomist party to represent others than the brakers, in order to then, in turn, to conjure up the unity and the common spirit of this anti-atomic policy. – That’s not how it will be! This undermines our credibility, not our efforts. That is what Mrs Lichtenberger said. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I ask you about the Greens: Your colleague in Germany, Joschka Fischer, is one of those who did not particularly help us at Temelín, unlike Stoiber in Bavaria, who fought massively at our side. How often have you called him to convince him to come into our boat with us – that would interest me – instead of doing so with ambiguous questions or trying to bring Mr. Federal Chancellor to light as if he and his colleagues in the Federal Government were not doing everything. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Marizzi]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: That was no question, that was a request!]] I'm afraid you've done very little to convince your colleagues and get into the boat. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: What questions were ambiguous?]] It is indeed regrettable that no acquis has yet been adopted in the EU as regards the mandatory safety standards. Mrs Lichtenberger! There is one reason, however, that no agreement has yet been reached on this unsatisfying proposal for the uniform safety standards: Because, among other things, we do not agree with it and do not accept it, because we want more stringent regulations. But you will not blame us for not yet having any regulation if we are fighting for a better regulation! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: No!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] So I don't quite understand you there! There's no regulation, that's fact. There is a proposal that is unacceptable. We are fighting for a better proposal – and you criticize it! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: That's where I have to let you down! But if you want to take it – please!]] You'll have to explain that to me sometime. Today will probably be too little time for it. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: You didn't listen, Mr. Colleague!]] The fact is: We “continue” with our three-step, three-stage concept. We fight for the conclusion of non-refitable power plants – including, as already stated in the Treaties, Ignalina, Bohunice, Kozloduj. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Where?]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Mochovce not?]] We are fighting for the creation of uniform high safety standards, and we are continuing to pursue, with all due consequence, the goal of a Europe-wide exit. If a minister – and this is not to be underestimated and not undervalued – if a minister of the economy in a country who has committed himself to shut down two reactors in the accession treaty is to be said this way, then, if he says he does not want to comply, a breach of a contract, if he says he wants to negotiate it, then from his very personal point of view, it is not a breach of the contract, but it was said to him, Mr Rusko, in all clarity: He does not need to make the effort to talk to us about it, we will not be prepared to change even one addition to this agreement! – And this attitude will not change either. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Walch.]] This has already been expressed by our Environment Minister in writing and in all its clarity. This is what our Foreign Minister has told the Slovak Foreign Minister. We do this in all form! We accept, with the involvement of all those in the Federal Government who are responsible for all possibilities to make it clear to the Slovaks that there is no need to be fun with us on this issue. I don't know where you're making your criticism. I don't know where you're trying to find a hair in the soup. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: This is not a hair in the soup, it is already a wig in the soup pot!]] The fact is – once again –: There is no country across the EU that is more committed and credible to the use of nuclear energy than Austria! We have therefore also prepared a motion for a resolution on this issue – my colleague Wittauer will bring it in – which expresses this attitude and the strategy we are pursuing here once again. I would like to invite you to agree. [[Abg. Oellinger: Please agree to our request, that is better!]] And I cannot imagine that any of the political groups in this House cannot accept this motion. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: To prevent you from agreeing! That's childish...!]] I would like to invite you very, very cordially, to give your consent to this request, in the sense of the one that has been previously and also repeatedly conjured up on this issue.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e14118	Now, Mr. Dr. Cap is speaking. Desirable time: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e14185	I would first of all strongly oppose my previous speaker, who has just claimed several times, no government took as much care of the nuclear exodus as the Austrian Federal Government. – That is to be disproved on every point! I am alone with the EU Commission's APA issue of 25. May, 12.21 a.m., titled “Neuveerhandlung zu AKW Bohunice, is not in question” – this includes, among other things, a passage in which the speaker of Commissioner Verheugen says: ‘In the course of the accession negotiations with Slovakia, a decommissioning of the Mochovce nuclear power station had not been required by Austria either.’ So that's what I'm looking at! [[Abg. May. Molterer: Four Parties Unit!]] What is the point of getting out of nuclear energy if, in the face of such a power plant, which is still in the Voronesch tradition – in order to use this horrendous term for the designation of a harmful east-car – there is no insistence at the accession negotiations that this is included in the Treaties, as well as the decommissioning of the Bohunice reactor 1 and 2? Where, please, is the vehement action against nuclear energy? So my predecessor deliberately spoke the untruth, and I can only protest the dissemination of this "information". [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] If the Federal Government were really interested in the fact that there was an exit from nuclear energy, it would have long been committed to the establishment of a pan-European referendum. By the way, this is now also being discussed in connection with possible referendums in relation to the EU Constitution. Individual countries are thinking about holding such votes at national level. But, of course, one could not only introduce a pan-European referendum as an institution, but also combine it with a vote on the exit from nuclear energy. [[Abg. May. Molterer: What if the negative results? What are you doing?]] Of course you have to stand up for this! Of course, we have to make sure that there is a majority in favour. Of course you have to do something for this! But it does not happen, because the Austrian Federal Government has failed to take real steps as well as to take real action for this institution. I therefore make the following request on this occasion: [[Quoted print version removed]] You know that the majority of the Member States of the European Union have already left or other countries are on their way to exit. However, the Atom Lobby, through the back door of the EuratoM contracts and the loans – under the title of the so-called conversion of East into West Standards and “more security standards” – tries to actually expand and restore nuclear energy. It is therefore necessary to consider whether there is a possibility of getting out in the long term, so that the Austrian taxpayers are not misused to upgrade nuclear power plants. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: You've been talking for six minutes – and it hasn't been clattered yet! Six minutes!]] Mr Bundeskanzler, you would of course also have the opportunity to signal Slovakia right now: If this part of the Treaty of Accession, which concerns Bohunice, is not complied with, there are complaints, then we shall again see ourselves at the European Court of Justice. We must clearly signal that, in the interests of the security of the Austrians, not only in the border region, but also in the event of such an atomic accident, there can be a large-scale disaster! But there too, Federal Chancellor, you are juicy! [[Complaints and bravors at SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Look at this. This particular form of “atom pragmatism” you are developing, with almost a... – If you say our right to build no nuclear power stations, we will defend with teeth and claws, just as the others defend their right to build an nuclear power station, so that is not a message for the exit from nuclear energy! [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] I would like to tell you on this occasion. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One last because you addressed the water: Mr. Federal Chancellor, don’t be evil to me, but I want to They remember that it was in the European Parliament on 11 November. In March 2004, a vote was held; I only recall the so-called Miller report. [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel speaks to the abg. May. Molterer.]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: The Federal Chancellor kicks!]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: The Federal Chancellor speaks!]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] – You must have known the behaviour of the ÖVP Group! This vote was about whether water resources should be subject to the rules of the internal market or not. A close majority voted against: This must therefore not be subject to internal market rules. The EIA MEPs were in favour of water being subject to these internal market rules! [[Pfui-Rufe at the SPÖ.]] [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Actual correction!]] This is the ÖVP for the privatisation of our water! That's the truth! This has been clearly explained, and on the other hand, we must act on a massive scale. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A small margin note on this: A certain Hans-Peter Martin, although he was more by chance present in the European Parliament, also abstained in this question; a so-called callless person who can neither start with the water. [[Call the ÖVP:Genosse!]] – Anyway, this was a very important signal, and I'm just telling you about the ÖVP: Once again you stood on the wrong side! [[Call the SPÖ:Very true!]] On the other hand, we from the SPÖ have no rumbles and swirls, because our water is a very serious thing! It is also not possible to develop this “water pragmatism”, Mr. Federal Chancellor, just as you did in the “Atom Pragmatism” as well, but also on this question more commitment is announced for the Austrians! [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: What is that?]] [[Interference by Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel]] [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: No more beer!]] And we'll stop you!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e14462	The motion for a resolution put forward before us is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e14510	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Molterer to speak. – Mr Magister, you know the Rules of Procedure; You're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e14542	Mr President. Mr Cap claimed that the ÖVP members had voted in favour of the privatisation of water. - That's wrong! I'm correcting: The ÖVP MEPs have successfully fought for unanimity! Therefore: The water remains red-white-red!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e14583	The next speaker is Mr Wittauer. Desirable time: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e14607	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Minister! I don't know what the Social Democrats are really upset about here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Posch]] The only ones, the All-Pure, who have always fought for the water in Austrian hands, were we liberals! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] And we liberals have convinced this federal government, that is, the rest of it, that this is also to be the line from all over Austria, and we have always carried it on that way! [[Calls and appeals between representatives of SPÖ and the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Posch: Preaching water and drinking wine!]] On the position of the Social Democrats: There's the mayor of St. Veit, Mock, who wanted to plow the water over Cross Border Leasing! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Are you for the brack water?]] So the SPÖ: Shiny in its own ranks – and on the other hand, want to do a business with our Austrian water! We of the liberals are in favour of the water not being sold, the water resources remain in Austria, and we will also be the guarantee that the water will be protected! Today, however, we are not talking about the water – we are obviously trying to wage elections here – but about the anti-atomic policy of this government, especially those of us, the Freeman. Today, we have been given the right of freemans once again: We were those who pointed out very critically what accession of the ten new EU countries could mean, although we are, in principle, naturally in favour of EU enlargement. We therefore wanted to place a sign – with two votes against – but I say to you: Because of what has happened to the Czech Republic and Slovakia, the Atom lobby has received two votes to do so. What have the Greens always said? – You have to discuss, you have to talk, you have to try to achieve something in negotiations! Today, however, Mrs Glavischnig, you are going out here saying that there is a massive need to act against Slovakia, but you have to do something massively about it, you have to get in touch with certain people, et cetera. I can tell you one thing. This Federal Government has responded immediately! Our Deputy Chancellor Gorbach immediately responded, including the Minister for the Environment, including the Federal Chancellor, also the Foreign Minister. This government is already taking care to ensure that the Treaties are respected in the accession negotiations. [[Abg. Reheis: That's what we see! Yes!]] And: We are probably the only ones to take this seriously and address this issue. For us, it was not a question of belief that Europe is bigger or smaller, but for us it was a question of faith to take the fears of the population seriously! Especially Temelín and Slovakia with its nuclear policy were a major obstacle to our efforts, and this has ultimately led us to have some difficulties in agreeing to this EU enlargement. The Greens, in this case in particular, have a hypocritical anti-atomic policy, and I only remember the following: Recently, we have made a request that your consent has failed only in “small” words. The Greens did not agree. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Those were not two small words, that was two billion €!]] With regard to EURATOM, where we wanted to ensure that funds from Austrian taxpayers do not flow into such projects, you did not agree with the Greens! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] So I can remind you from the Greens that you are running a differentiated course today. In the past it was like this: four parties/one opinion. Four parties have jointly tried to build a strong position. You have left this course from the Greens: at the expense of voters, as I mean, because we will clearly show that this is the wrong way! [[Call to the liberals:Yes!]] This is where we come out and pursue populist policies, at the expense of the citizens, which is Your policy! In addition: Especially our free EU candidate Hans Kronberger has given quite clear answers on this question; I can quote from it FPÖ candidate Hans Kronberger, who is running a pronounced anti-atomic course in his election campaign, responds even more strongly: [[Abg. May. Posch: Isn't that the mill?]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] “First of all, the expansion of the Mochovce, now the non-stop of Bohunice – how far is the fragility of the Slovak government still going?” – quotes our top candidate. Hans Kronberger has always fought for this at European level, something I miss with the Greens. In many votes, including those in the European Parliament, you have not taken such a course from the Greens! We from the government parties have already made such requests together, and this time we will also bring in a form with which this government itself commits itself; I want to read them now. That's what's going on. Your request falls because this is the better our request, and you, of course, from the Greens will support this proposal, the Socialists will certainly also try together to bring Slovakia and other countries to pursue a different nuclear policy. [[Quoted print version removed]] Mrs Glavischnig, if you do not support this, it is better to leave Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e14832	Mr Wittauer's request, tabled just now by Mr Wittauer, on the confirmation of the Austrian anti-atomic policy, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Since this proposal is very extensive, I would like to ask Parliament's Directorate to reproduce and distribute it. [[Abg. May. Posch: Mr President! Mr Wittauer's last sentence was actually orderly!]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e14941	Next word: Mrs Dr Gabriela Moser. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e14974	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! It is significant, Mr Wittauer, that you submit a request which bears the title: ‘Reaffirmation of the previous Austrian anti-atomic policy’. – They are obviously not long enough here in Parliament to know that what is to be “confirmed” today is to be confirmed at least since the 10. This is a more detailed, decided form on July 1997. We have already decided on all this – why should we decide on it again? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have even decided much more – I will read it to you then – but what is above all missing and therefore also the reason for our urgent request is to settle with your entire nuclear policy, is implementation, is concreteization, is an offensive towards anti-CFC policy at European level. I should like to comment on two small details because you have spoken of hypocrisy, Mr Wittauer. Please explain to me why the country of Carinthia, for example, sells its energy supply company to the RWE and sells the water supply rights to the RWE at the same time. Explain this to me! – This was only a small concrete reference to the so-called water policy of state governments, partly also of federal governments. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] A second point, Mr Wittauer: Please, look again at your Blue-Red Government Convention in Carinthia. – No line, no syllables, no word to Krško! Nothing! There is no national policy initiative against a border-by-border nuclear power station, which is not dangerous, which certainly has the dimension of Mochovce. You ignore it. They sometimes ignore it even more than the Federal Government ignores a lot. - That's just so you can come in front of your own door. Now to the general. Mr Bundeskanzler and, above all, Mr Klubobmann Molterer! EURATOM – this is a major dispute between our parties, how this fossil energy contract, with this fossil basic contract of the RWE – formerly the EEC – can be used. We are for the exit, we are for the disposal of this contract. However, your MEPs in the European Parliament, at second and third readings, have made it possible to extend this Treaty, in a specific way, in terms of nuclear energy policy. – Your Members were! That's your EU policy, that's your nuclear power policy! These are very hard facts that show that you do not take seriously what we have discussed and decided in this National Council often and for a long time: a nuclear power-free Central Europe and a very concrete scenario as we can achieve this. Mr Bundeskanzler, a small question to you, a small quiz for you; perhaps you are a little bit of a change in nuclear policy. The question is: What is the final report of the Federal Chancellor's Office on the field of nuclear policy, progress report on the resolution of the National Council? What year, Mr. Federal Chancellor? It was the last report we got from a German chancellor. - You don't know? They lower their heads in a bit of silence. I can answer the question myself, Federal Chancellor! The last report comes from 1998! [[Abg. May. Molterer: What was the Federal Chancellor's name?]] – Federal Chancellor climate has submitted a report; Mrs Prammer was at the time significantly responsible for this. It has also caused this report, as far as I can imagine – at the time I was very critical. Only, Federal Chancellor, you have put all this ad acta. I know that's always your policy, as a foreign minister. Nuclear policy is something hot, because one risks bilaterally good relations, because one may come into a dispute with the neighbours once again. This theme was unpleasant to you. Then you also had to talk to our northern neighbours, keyword TemelÃn, but you have missed out on the concrete continuation and continuation of an Austrian anti-CFC policy. And what you've done today refers to our main accusation. Not only that you do not continue to write, but you do not even say, if there is a resurgence of completely outdated power plants almost directly at the border in Slovakia! You are silent on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday – today you are talking, but only because we are talking to you! That shows me your attitude. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Now quite specific to the individual failures. It is only the resolution of the National Council that is needed. In July 1997, I mentioned the beginning of my remarks, and I would like to point out once again what I have said. At that time, we all agreed – a consensus across all parties – on a list of points and submitted to the Federal Government their implementation. Now I'm asking: What happened to it? For example, ‘compulsory action for the preparation of nuclear exit concepts in the context of accession negotiations’? - Nothing! We have decided: ‘Improvement of the bilateral nuclear agreements in particular with the Czech Republic and Slovakia’. – I don’t know that something has been implemented. We have decided: ‘Development of international instruments with a view to nuclear-free Central Europe’. – I am not a decision, I do not know how to implement it, Mr Bundeskanzler! We have decided: ‘Integrating environmental damage into a new nuclear-enforcement regime’. At the Austrian level, we did this, but I don't know anything about international advances, they don't exist. We have decided: "Energiewirtschaftscooperations with the Reform States to create conditions for the earliest possible relinquishing of nuclear energy use". - In part, we did something. There are partnerships for renewable energy, but far too little. We need a massive changeover concept towards renewables. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You know exactly, Federal Chancellor, that this is the only energy policy scenario for the future. Just think about the climate problem, the warming problem, the CO2 problem! Think about the finality of the resources, especially what fossil energy sources, say oil, reached! Remember that we will soon have reached the peak of funding, that then energy prices will rise anyway, and then we will have a more intense nuclear debate in the energy field! Remember that all these forms of energy, whether fossil, are nuclearly reactive, are linked to massive environmental pollution and waste disposal costs! What are you refusing? What is happening at European level in the absence of your commitment to far too little? – To a far too small extent, the swirling takes place towards renewable energy sources. In itself, we have decided to: It doesn't happen much. On the contrary! It often goes in the other direction. I know there are large international representations in the energy scenario, the French say, partly also the British who make life difficult for us, yet we should act more offensively. But what are you doing? – You are usually silent, except for us to talk to you! At the end of the day, maybe another hint. What have we decided in 1997? ‘Initiate financing instruments for non-nuclear alternatives at border-by-border power stations’. – All the decision-making process, we really only need to be gradually integrated into a new action programme and to systematically develop this action programme. But no, we still write as of 1998 and have some steps to take. In view of this, then, of my great resentment, my great anger, that you come here to Parliament and talk about water in this debate. Please, don't water down the last remaining nuclear policy that this Federal Government could have carried out! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But you have to tell the SPÖ!]] Finally, because I would like to leave some time to other speakers: What I have proposed to you is a documentation of your half-hearted course of action, your deception maneuvers at EU level, see EURATOM. On the contrary, we need a massive swing towards powerful initiatives and, above all, a warm personal commitment to these anti-AKW questions, Mr. Bundeskanzler! We miss that – but we need it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15059	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Schools. 6 minutes welcome. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15077	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! High house! I live – as many know – on March right on the border with Slovakia. My first visit to Slovakia after the fall of the Iron Curtain was Bohunice. I was shocked, I was surprised, I was deeply impressed. It was practically not recognizable where the scrap baptism ceases and the power plant begins. It was colossal what Communism left there. Today Slovakia is a member of the EU and has committed itself to closing the first generation of Soviet buildings and to improving security arrangements with the others. We are informed of all incidents, we are in the early warning system. Slovakia receives € 190 million from the common European pot. This was achieved by Austria during the accession negotiations. It has been a measure of security policy, and I am glad that it is. We want a nuclear-free Central Europe. Yes, we want to live in good neighborhood, too. We want to know what is planned in the nuclear industry, because we know that this is not a future path. These are the facts and the successes, and they were achieved without dramatization, but with great persistence. Today I am grateful to my government, today I know that we have little to worry about in Zwerndorf, although we know much more than at the time. Today I know that the human being is being done for our security in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now to today's urgent request. – European elections take place here and also in Slovakia, election aid is required, drama is missing. Slovak Deputy Minister Rusko stands for a party that has just reached its minimum political existence. Rusko demands the expansion of nuclear power. This is a single political opinion, not the government's opinion, not Parliament's opinion, just a single opinion. We have someone immediately after the Federal President's election said he wanted Turkey's accession to the EU. That too was an individual opinion. This Mr Rusko needs an emotional theme for the election campaign. He needs a stage, and we offer him the stage here in Austria in Parliament. We, more precisely, the Greens take over volly, and Mr. Cap skips. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Poor speech!]] Mrs Glavischnig, I would like to speak to you, Vice-President of the Greens. I'm really personally disappointed that you're here for it. [[Call the SPÖ and the Greens: Oh!]] They are making this problem a problem between Austria and Slovakia. We are really too good for this, and Slovakia is too bad for it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] In fact, they are now subject to Slovakia's contract of accession to the EU Treaty of Accession; You said this literally today. – This is false and at least offensive if you say and accuse it one week, two weeks, three weeks after accession. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Yes, if it is true!]] It's insulting. I understand your political need, but that goes too far! You might want to use a cheap political position to profile yourself. I admit: We also have European elections, and there is little room for the green candidates between the three left groups and the candidates of the People's Party. You need a theme, and you're now blowing up this topic on the election topic. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: You don't know each other, my colleague!]] I hope you are aware that, with this interference in the Slovak electoral situation, you are weakening the anti-atomic forces in Slovakia and strengthening the nuclear weapons advocates. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Don't you fear the border?]] Who's that helping? [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Don't you fear?]] You? – Perhaps because you continue to have an excitement topic, but it certainly hurts Austrian interests. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Don't you fear the border?]] Mr. Cap, listen! We do not need any artificial problems with Slovakia, we have enough real problems. 60 years after the end of the war, the bridges over March are still not built. We need railways and motorways, and we need a reasonable working base and daily work talks. We don't need an election campaign that goes across borders. Keep the election campaign at home – and they should do the same! In any case, we will continue to work together on Europe. We will have a reasonable dialogue with our neighbours on all important issues. Today, in an application, we will still state that this is also happening quickly and properly. This helps us, that helps Austria, that helps Europe!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15220	Next speaker is Mrs Mag. Sima. 7 minutes welcome. – You are speaking, Mrs Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15238	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! High house! A short word on the topic of water: I have here the minutes on the vote of the Miller report in the European Parliament. It was a question of whether water resources are not subject to the rules of the internal market and constitute a common good for mankind. MEPs voted with ‘No’ Stenzel, Schierhuber, Karas and Rübig. – Only so much about the remarks of Mr Molterer, who has already left the hall. It is quite clear that the ÖVP MEPs voted against. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Let us now talk about the urgent question, the anti-atomic policy. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor! You must not be surprised at our scepticism, because the anti-atomic policy of the Federal Government of recent years – I can only remember Temelín – can only be described as diletant. The celebrated Milker Treaty, you have returned from Brussels as a hero – what did he bring us? Zero! The output is null. There has been nothing happening in Temel­n 1 and 2 on the network, and apart from the fact that mountains have been sent back and forth from files between the countries and the Commission. It hasn't changed a deca at all. That is also the reason for this urgent request. We do not want it to come back to a shadow boxing again, to be set up any shady activities or to be faked activities that do not go beyond writing a letter. If your demands are really honest that you are seriously planning to do something on this subject in time, namely now, then you can carry out this urgent request of the Greens without any bad conscience. But no, instead – I have just considered your request – you are distributing here a motion for a resolution that can only be described as paralysed. Reaffirms the ‘Three Stages Strategy’ of the Federal Government. It does not even mention the word “claiming” of a Treaty of Accession. What do you really want to achieve with this motion for a resolution, except here in any way? I was very surprised by the comments made by the last few days from Slovakia. But what I also found to be very amazing is that the Federal Government is mainly swirling down and that you are obviously not aware of these statements. This is taken as an individual opinion. It is spoken of as “privileged. ” You really have to ring all the alarm bells when you hear what comes out of Slovakia! If you say that the opinion of the Minister for Economic Affairs is almost an individual opinion which is not of relevance, then I really think this is a fatal misevaluation of the situation. I believe that such statements are truly urgent and, above all, very rapid action and would be appropriate. I wonder, Where are the activities of the Federal Government? What are you waiting for? Do you want to sleep this again as with Temelín, where one suddenly comes a year before the start-up, that an AKW is standing in front of the doors of the country and perhaps one should do something and then we should slumber back into such a disaster? [[Abg. Scheibner: Go, go!]] I think it's important to set up activities in good time. In this context, I believe that it is very important that the Austrian Federal Government not only ensure that the contribution agreement is strictly complied with by point and command, but also, if necessary, is prepared to sue it, because unlike Temelín, we have this time a legal instrument in hand. We are not, in fact, dependent on voluntary activities, but we can actually take legal steps in this case. We should also, if necessary, announce and prepare these in good time. [[Abg. Scheibner: No doubt!]] Mr Scheibner. Why is that not in your motion for a resolution? There is always something of “confirmed”, all very anointing, but of concrete actions in this context I find very little in it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: It's not yet!]] Theme number two: Development of Mochovce. We have known since Temelín – and I admit that too – that it is not necessarily a goal to want to dictate something to a neighbouring country. We know that new nuclear power stations can also be built in Slovakia and we probably do not have much influence on them. We also do not want to hold a Temelín 2 debate because we do not think it to be a target. But what we have a strong influence on is financing. Cracking point in this context is EURATOM, the financial resources are. As long as there is special funding from the European Union, special support for nuclear power, namely for new nuclear power stations, for finished buildings, for capacity expansion, whatever, there will also be nuclear power plants. That's easy. As long as € 2 billion for the new construction of nuclear power plants is to be extra set aside, as long as they will be available. In this context, it is really very difficult and worrying for me that only a few months ago the government parties decided in this House that there should be an increase in these funds and that Austria will agree to this increase, under certain conditions with which we did not agree, because we simply believe that EURATOM funds should not be increased by €2 billion. On the one hand, to conjure up the European nuclear exodus and to point out with your finger to the neighbours and on the other hand to agree to an increase of exactly this amount by € 2 billion and thus to finance the nuclear power plants we are fighting here, which is really very worrying – I do not want to negotiate a call for order now – and more than questionable. Of course, this contradiction is also clearly perceived by our neighbours. They'll say: What do the Austrians want? On the one hand, they finance the power plants through EURATOM funds, on the other hand they are excited. – It can't be! That's why: The EURATOM Treaty must expire, tag revision conference. Austria must get out of the EURATOM Treaty, and no Austrian tax centre may be invested in the expansion of nuclear power stations.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15319	The next speaker is Mrs Rosenkranz. 5 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15340	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! High house! It is a fact that Austria has decided against nuclear power with good reason. It is also a fact that this is accepted by all parties and no party there would go a different line and could go as well. The fact is, however, that we are in a campaign – and this has shown us particularly strongly here. You have always been warned by the Greens, who have always rejected any self-confidence if, for example, it has been demanded by the Freemans in Brussels, that they have broken down porcelain and never come to the finish, now demand things that, as I think, are really not effective in this case, but more to be assigned to the area of the show and the election spectacle. There is no question that the announcement of Minister of Industry Rusnok to further expand Mochovce and not stop Bohunice should be taken seriously. It is also an opinion that not only represents him. He has been supported by future President Gasparovic. No question, it's serious to take. It is particularly regrettable – and this is also to be pointed out – that the announcement not to close the two blocks – for Lower Austria, by the way, a very unfortunate thing – that the accession treaty is not violated four weeks after accession, or that it is announced that it is intended to violate this Treaty of Accession. I mean, it's very important to be reasonable. I would think it would be a big mistake if the Austrian state were to take up this match on its own. This is the EU's case. Of course, the EU has to ensure that its own rules are respected, although I agree that this is exactly a wonderful point that the EU does not comply with its own rules on other issues, such as human rights issues with the displaced. We may succeed in this case – and it would be really very good if you were all involved in it – in persuading that the same right applies to all. But what I wonder and what I particularly think is: Why do you actually allow this to happen to Austria? Would this also be allowed to happen to any other state? Would it be possible to announce, in such a massive way, to another State, that the Treaty of Accession does not comply with the Treaty of Accession? I note, quite obviously, that not everything in the Austrian behaviour of recent years was suitable to give us respect. I have quite clearly also a responsibility with you – not with you personally, with your political groups. Every time it was about showing a determined, self-confident behavior in Brussels, it was not possible, it was not opportunistic, it was anti-European, it should not be so, and was defamated as a nationalist relapse. That is exactly what I am supposed to say, in fact, that you are right now, that it is of course necessary for every state in the EU to represent its national interests first and, above all, then to find a common European agreement. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] I mean, if you learn from this experience, from this unfortunate experience, that nuclear power plants located at the Austrian borders are not to be shut down or expanded, that you understand patriotism as a duty of a Member and not as a defamatory nationalist uprising that needs to be fought, then there is a lot to be gained. I can conclude with one, as I mean, very moderate and reasonable quote from the Swiss writer Keller, who says: Eighteen every man's fatherland, who loves yours.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15407	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hakl. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15425	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it's important now, after all the excitement, to tell people what they're interested in. In contrast to what has already been falsely expressed in the heading of the Green application, there is no decision by the Slovak Federal Government to renegotiate the Bohunice case, namely decommissioning. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Read!]] Instead, the Minister for Economic Affairs of the Slovak Republic has apparently gone through such a proposal on the basis of internal policy considerations. Therefore, there is no reason for the entire German government to become wildly active here, as if Slovakia, our new partner and friend, had just joined, a kind of hostile image. With the greens, it seems almost that way. Rather, our Environment Minister immediately contacted his colleague in Slovakia and found this opinion confirmed, as did our Foreign Minister. Both have acted without delay and have found that Slovakia will comply with the contracts it has concluded with the EU and also with Austria in particular on the business of Austria and does not intend to amend them. In other words: There is no silence from the Federal Government, there is no silence from one of the relevant members of our Federal Government. The fact that such advances as those of the Greens do not exactly promote the very good relations of Austria with Slovakia should also be clear. That precisely this good climate of conversation, also with regard to Mochovce or its decommissioning – and I hope that it will actually be achieved – is not improved by such advances of the Greens as today, but rather is incredibly deteriorated and, for this reason, is absolutely debilitating, you have to do with it, Mrs Dr. Glamonic, as I think, made too little thought. You can't deal with your neighbors, partners and friends in Slovakia, even because of a minister's newspaper. Austria is known – also in the Council of Europe, which I can see there again and again – as the anti-atomic country within the EU. This is sometimes a problem, but we would certainly like to address it, because we are clearly commenting on the issue of nuclear energy. We are often held against standard: You're against it anyway! This does not wrong our partners in Europe, and we are also proud of this attitude. Only: It is not enough to be against it, but there is also a need for a calm and objective discussion and discussion – and no fearsome advances, as you have done here in Parliament today by the Greens. Although I believe that the Austrian population will not join this panic, I find it quite worrying that, in the same breath, both SPÖ and Greens here act as if the government parties in relation to our water resources were to promote liberalisation or in some way endorse it. At this point, I would like to refer once again to two decisions taken by the European Parliament, namely on 14 November. January 2004, on services in the general interest, namely water and waste services, indicate where all Austrian MEPs, as always at the forefront of the ÖVP delegates, voted against the privatisation of these water resources so important for our communities and for Austria. I would like to ask Mr Cap to make a more careful statement in the future and not to put other matters in the room, otherwise I would have to make an observation of the untruthful statement of what I was sorry about – and perhaps bring me a call for order. Mrs Sima, to your address: ==References== In the European Parliament's decision that water and waste services will not be the subject of sectoral directives on the internal market, it was adopted in March 2004, also with the votes of the EIA. – The ÖVP stands for this, and our Federal Chancellor, Dr. Schüssel, says. This is what foreign and environmental ministers stand for, and for this there is also a host of ÖVP mayors all over Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15478	Mr Dkfm is now speaking. Dr. Bauer. It wishes a speaking time of 5 minutes; Still speaking time of the SPÖ: 12 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15496	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I believe that today's discussion on Slovakia's nuclear policy should not be reversed, nor in the direction that this is an individual opinion of a Slovak minister and so on. The fact is that this report is worrying, and the fact is that there are plans that give clear priority to expanding the Mochovce nuclear power station. Today, the “Press” states that Slovak Minister of Economic Affairs Pavol Rusko will also insist on further expansion of the Mochovce nuclear power station when selling the energy company, so the buyer will be obliged to do so. So you should not play it down – with all your willingness to have friendly relations, and I would like to stress that I am one of those who really care for them, but you also have to find clear words to neighbors. And clear words are necessary in this case! I certainly do not understand the difficulties that exist in energy policy as a whole; we have already talked about this several times today. I do not think that in any other area of economic policy, the idea is different between what is going on and what we want. We are talking about a reality which, however, is not we have something that can only be changed very laboriously. I do not understand this, but I am one of those who started to fight the Mochovce nuclear power station in 1990, as well as the Bohunice nuclear power station. For example, we have collected signatures against the construction of the Dukovany nuclear power station and so on. In reality, however, the attitude of the Czech or Slovak representatives has not changed: They continue to stick to their course. Therefore, in a situation like this, it is necessary not to signal a soft course, but it must be clear that there will very well be a call, namely, even if someone says that what is agreed with the EU is also the subject of considerations as regards the closure of Bohunice 2006 and 2008. In such a case, I don't think I'm going to interpret it in such a way that it's a single opinion, but that requires a strong cry from Austria! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I come from the eastern region, from the wine district, and therefore I would also like to refer to the whole impact here, including what the Federal Chancellor has said here on the term ‘sovereignity’. – This concept of sovereignty must, of course, be recognized, but be limited in the direction that this approach comes from a time when the effects from one state to another were not given. At that time the border was absolutely absolute. However, if a technical investment has an impact on a larger region, the whole region needs to be involved in the decision-making process. That's why, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In my opinion, it is not enough if German Chancellor Schüssel believes that his Slovak counterpart Dzurinda has told him that the Treaty of Accession is being respected for the EU. – May be, but no word was mentioned, for example, about the expansion plans of the Mochovce nuclear power station. On the part of the Slovaks, it is said that they do not want to be power-import-dependent, and it is also said that other blocks to the Mochovce nuclear power plant need to be added to ensure this power autonomy in the future. And that's a very different assessment than what's being tried to argue here. I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that Austria could offer a lot, especially as regards the know-how of alternative energy. I also know that there is no talk about this at all, except occasionally on the subject of biomass. In reality, in Austria we have a huge know-how that we could offer, but this is hardly used. In a forecast I have read that electricity consumption in the enlarged Europe will rise by 40 percent by 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, if this occurs in this scale – in the last four years we are moving in this regard with an increase of around 3 per cent per year – this would mean that pressure on energy producers is getting even bigger to provide electricity. If there are no alternatives to traditional energy sources, then the latter will have to be used more strongly. I am almost convinced that many in Europe – not in Austria! – dream of a certain renaissance of nuclear energy to cover the energy gap; the next generation of nuclear power plants will soon be available. France announced that it would launch the new generation until 2015. In such a situation, a soft course is completely wrong. There you have to show the flag! The fear in the population is increasing, but this federal government is silent! And that's not really a future strategy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15572	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15590	Mr President. [[Abg. Dr. Bauer's getting a paper from the speaker's desk that's been left there.]] You forgot. [[Abg. Dr. Bauer offers the speaker the paper.]] No, I don't read it now, but maybe you need reading for SPÖ's policy in the anti-atom question. I agree with some of my previous speakers that this issue is very topical, very critical. That is why I am very glad that she is here today for discussion. However, Mrs Glavischnig, I still think that the recipient is missing. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: The consignee!]] At the present time of the Austrian Federal Government to blame for failure, I think I am at least premature from an opposition point of view. I believe that the reaction that the Austrian Federal Government has now made is correct, namely that one does not overemphasize the fact that a minister of the economy, who sees the interests of Slovakia as well, does not pay a fee, but that one makes very clear: If this statement by the Slovak Minister of Economic Affairs is not just what we are hoping for – that is, an individual opinion that is not the opinion of the Slovak Government and is therefore not translated into reality – then there is a very clear and clear action by the Austrian Government, including action at the level of the European Union. I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that it is right not to get over with the reactions now and that I hope not to raise this - and hopefully - individual opinion, but to make it clear that we will not let that happen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Silence – is that the argument?]] Mrs Lichtenberger, you are saying that we are not sufficiently clear in the anti-atom movement, we are going to let our colleagues in Slovakia pull us over the table and whatever. Mrs Colleague, I must make the discussion of the past few months happen here. A few years ago, there were urgent questions from Members of the European Parliament, and it is quite interesting to read in them. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! If you are now accusing the Federal Government of failure, I must say that it is already interesting how you did that at the time. For already in 1999 there were concessions to the European Union and to Slovakia under a German climate, which, for example, reached the security standards. At the time, an Austrian ambassador appeared in Slovakia and said: [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Just like your coalition partner's MEPs!]] These anti-atomic opinions of Austria are not, in any case, serious, they have only been delivered to the public. German Chancellor climate has also threatened with Veto in the election campaign with Mrs Sima, if there are not exit scenarios in the Czech Republic and Slovakia. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann: That was right for the ÖVP!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! If you say blue-eyed now, For the sake of God's will, they do not adhere to what has been promised before accession, they should have been negotiating harder!, then I wonder where you were from the SPÖ and the Greens when it was about bringing the hardest means into the negotiations we had at the time. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: No one said that!]] – Just as the liberals demanded, and the same way that Chancellor Climate demanded in the 1999 election campaign! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Because we do not against the Czech Republic the Veto-Keule...!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] Yes, you called it the "Veto-Keule". Even now, in the vote on enlargement, Mrs Lunacek has criticized our two Members for weakening our negotiating position with regard to the Czech Republic and Slovakia with their vote against enlargement. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: A veto against the Czech Republic helps against Slovakia?]] Where Then when it came to really setting up a clear junkim, Mrs. Lichtenberger? [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Thank God not at your side!]] We said: If there are not clear, legally binding, clear exit scenarios at Temelín and also at the power stations in Slovakia, then there can be no Yes to the accession of these countries to the European Union! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: You never mentioned them!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] Ladies and gentlemen, where were you? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr President, you have also said that we are too soft in terms of Temelín. Yes, that would have been the possibility, we have often said it here! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Only Temelín and Beneš!]] Unfortunately, we have not been able to enforce ourselves, because we have also been in this House the only ones who have seen it in such a way that we say: that would have been the last way to play a trump, an atout. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: That's it!]] It was not possible, unfortunately. [[Abg. Ollinger: Temelín and Beneš, that's what you wanted together...!]] They have said that we must now do this at EU level. All right, we're for it, we're gonna try it. But we played the real trump! It is also true in other areas. I just remember that, for example, the Czech Republic promised us before accession that it would abolish the Beneš decrees that the Amnesty laws would be repealed. Now we don't hear about it anymore. On the contrary, there is now even a decision in the Czech Parliament that Mr Beneš is still being honored. That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Beneš! That's what you're interested in!]] But that is what this House itself owes itself. Don't say we didn't warn about this! Ladies and gentlemen! That's why: It is good that this is now being debated intensively. Use But you are not asking this important question in your usual fight against the Austrian Federal Government, but on the contrary: Support the work of the Austrian Federal Government, at the right time, namely now, to warn that we assume that this is an individual opinion, but if it is not, we will take advantage of all possibilities at European level so that what Slovakia has promised before accession applies even after accession!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15831	Mr Oberhaidinger is now speaking. He too wishes 5 minutes of speaking time. Still speaking time of the SPÖ: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15851	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Scheibner, you and your party are really falling from one extreme to the other as far as anti-atom policy is concerned. [[Abg. Scheibner: No, you!]] For years we have tried to teach you that a junkim, as you have suggested – the so-called veto keule – doesn't make sense because it simply doesn't work out. [[Abg. Scheibner: That was your chancellor climate that said that! Your chancellor climate!]] Since you've been in the government, you've actually gone to diving station on this question, since then you haven't been there. [[Abg. Scheibner: Here you go completely wrong!]] If I look at your motion for a resolution: Mr Wittauer is the first to work on it. If we had submitted such requests to you at the time when you were in opposition, we would have been able to go home immediately! If you hadn't even looked at it, we wouldn't have even come into the conversation about it, please. [[Abg. Scheibner: We looked at everything!]] Look at the last joint motion for a resolution from 1997: It makes no sense for us to go back behind what we have already decided! What this is about is that it will finally be implemented, which is already in place in the request. That's the question. - And because you're saying this: You're in government, not us! You are the ones who must represent the EURATOM thing in Brussels, Mr Scheibner! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You are inconsistency! First, demand the veto, but then criticize that we demand it! And now you're making party politics here!]] We have become unbelievable in our anti-atomic policy! It is no longer useful at the moment to decide on common applications if nothing goes on in the implementation. The “Melker process” has already been addressed. The only thing we've achieved with it is that milk became known. Okay, that's certainly no disadvantage for the milkers, but that's it! To the EURATOM Treaty: We have really asked you to “capture” the member of the Federal Government so far that it can only represent this attitude in Brussels. What happened? – Basically nothing! Now that's going to be the 13th. June, after the election, postponed. I am convinced that then there will be an increase of 4 billion to 6 billion euros, and the task will not change. I warn you not to take this so-called individual opinion of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Rusko, seriously! Ladies and gentlemen, it is no longer just about this particular opinion, but it is already peeking through that the CEZ, the large Czech energy company, has the greatest interest in the acquisition of Mochovce and Bohunice. That is, if the CEZ buys itself there, it pursues a very clear goal. The CEZ is faced with a very unfavourable cost situation in Temelín. With the acquisition of these two nuclear power plants and with the additional expansion – accordingly supported by the Électricité de France – which is looking for new markets – the cost situation is likely to be such that the electricity from Temelín will also be expected for the Czechs. In addition, they already have a surplus situation there, and the surplus will continue to rise. Given the electricity situation in other European countries – I am convinced – there will be grateful customers for this electricity. Although the price is still true, this is not at all a question, and we can continue to write the two power plants until the Sankt-Nimmerleins day. This will not change at all. Ladies and gentlemen! I am therefore against the fact that we are taking a quiet stand on this issue. In all cases, we must decide what we are proposing today in two applications in a correct continuation of what we decided in 1997. I would like to ask you, in the sense of a credible anti-atomic policy, to support these two requests, the request of the Greens and our supplementary request accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15956	The next speaker is Mr Walch. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit; Rest of the time of the FPÖ: 7 minutes. – Mr Commissioner, you are on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15974	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not really think that the Greens' request or the request is very positive. I'm going to focus on exactly why: You're not the great environmentalists! [[Abg. Oils: Aha?]] You have not yet provided any evidence of this in Brussels, and you have not yet provided any proof in Upper Austria with your Environment Council, Anschober. Mr Moser, you know exactly how often we have been standing together at the border with Wolowitz. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: That's why you can't...!]] Your colleague, Mr Anschober, then MP and now Environment Council, has announced a great deal on the border with Wolowitz: If I had anything to talk about here, if I were Environment Councillor, it would have been a long time off! – Now he is the Environment Councillor, and I hear nothing more: Silence in the forest! This is green environmental policy! But you stand here and claim that the Federal Government does not do anything about it, whether it is Bohunice or whether it is the dangerous scrap power plant Temelín. [[Abg. Oils: Reverse!]] I assume that there is not a single Member in this House who wants this danger. I would also like to say that here. The fact that the Federal Government is doing something – whether that is the chancellor, the vice-channer or the foreign minister – is also clear. Only they don't do it like the opposition that they yell so much, but they negotiate. I think that's the most important thing. What's very important and what's particularly annoying about me is the following. You can remember that in Upper Austria we started the Anti-Temelín People's Desire. Who has launched a counter-action in Upper Austria? – The Greens have launched a counter-action in Upper Austria and have not supported our Temelín people’s desire! Nevertheless, we have brought together 914 873 signatures. And who always said: Don't you threaten with the Veto? – Based on our pressure, the “Melker Agreement” and much more, appropriate safety standards have been introduced for the existing nuclear power stations. Only in these scrap power plants or the power plants, which pose a particular danger, do we - and I am in the process - always try to move towards decommissioning or to comply with security measures. Making yourself today and making a urgent request here, while always announcing and criticizing, but not acting – such as the Upper Austrian Environment Council and many more –, I believe, the population cannot be carried around by the nose!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16048	The next speaker is Mr Hornek. Voluntary limit on speaking time: 5 minutes; Residual speaking time of the ÖVP: 9 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16067	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! As mayor and parliamentarian of a small border community, about 60 kilometres from Temelín, I have been an anti-atomic policy for more than a decade. Austria has established a ban on nuclear power production on the basis of a popular decision on its own territory under the Nuclear Lock Law, but is surrounded by a large number of nuclear power plants in the neighbouring countries. In order to minimise the risks of these plants, the aim of this House must be to support a Europe-wide exit from nuclear power production. The consistent position of Austria must therefore be the indication of the permanent dangers associated with nuclear energy and must be the support of each country in relation to an exit scenario. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Anti-Atom policy is very popular in Austria, and so many of them like to stand in the first row with their proud-swelled breasts. However, the measure of credibility in anti-atomic policies is the handling of alternative energy forms, alternative forms of electricity production. Our former Environment Ministers Molterer and Pröll have made massive use of renewable energy, which is clearly reflected in the funding programmes and in the related and implemented projects. An important element in this connection is the eco electricity law adopted in this House. However, we have also implemented very nice and good projects in other areas of renewable energy, whether these were district heating projects, biogas plants or solid and liquid fuels. All of this proves that we not only represent the funding programmes plausibly, but also efficiently implement them. Anti-Atom policy and energy policy with the aim of achieving the Kyoto objective are key political issues of the future and require a joint operation of all parties in this House. An anti-atomic policy means from an Austrian point of view: first, the closure of non-refitable nuclear power plants, for example the Ignalina, Bohunice reactors – explicitly – and Kozloduj; second, the creation of Europe-wide uniform safety standards for nuclear power plants still in operation; third, the consistent pursuit of a strategy aimed at a Europe-wide exit from the use of nuclear power. We have a very difficult environment with our meaningful Austrian views in Europe. The statement by the Slovak Minister of Economic Affairs, Rusko and his small party – which I did not even know until a few hours ago – and I think many in this House are doing similarly – I do not want to overestimate because I do not want to give him an exaggerated priority. I recall the activities in the course of the conflict with our neighbouring country Czech Republic in relation to the Temelín nuclear power plant. Regrettably, from time to time, the border blockages have proved to be counterproductive, on the basis of the fact that in the Czech Republic this has led to the finding of a national epaulment and to the very support of those forces that we really do not want to support, namely the forces which massively force and demand the expansion of nuclear power plants. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I rely much more on the Austrian Federal Government and above all on our Federal Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel, in the course of the “Melker Process” in a highly efficient process, has demonstrated how to engage in a dialogue with the neighbours and, in the course of a political process, implements the maximum feasible for our home country Austria. I am grateful to him for this, and I will continue to rely on this procedure in the future. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16115	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16133	High house! Some arguments from the point of view of the debate: First of all, we should keep the two nuclear power projects Bohunice and Mochovce apart, simply the fairness half. Bohunice – as Mrs. Dr. Glavischnig has a hundred percent right – is an Ural power plant of Soviet style and has therefore come to the list of these three closed nuclear power plants. [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] Of course, Mochovce is something else, you have to say that. In 1998 and 1999, these two blocks have joined the network, and they have also been included in this form under the Union's security regime proposals. But it is a completely different risk to be mentioned here, and that is why, I believe, the arguments must be kept apart. The first one was: If Bohunice is not to be concluded, it is a breach of Slovakia's accession treaty, and that is why every right, Mr Pavol Rusko and the President-designated Gašparovic, has criticised for it. There is no dissent between us. However, I would also like to take into account that there are very clear statements by Foreign Minister Edi Kukan and the head of government Mikuláš Dzurinda that Slovakia stands for this Treaty, and the Commission has also clearly reaffirmed this. I mean, one should also acknowledge that it was actually possible, within hours, to clarify this, through our pressure – also through the regional partnership and very trusting relations. There is now an absolutely positive opinion from the leaders of the Slovak Government. That is, I think, a result of this debate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Second point: We should not be small in terms of the results we have already achieved. Now, if I only take the closure of Bohunice, Ignalina and Kozloduj, I can say: This is a great success! For this the Union, in part also with our money, spends €600 million for the next years – that is a lot of money – for the first time even for concrete closures. The fact that we have implemented concrete upgrades for the five power plants of Temelín, Krško, Paks, Mochovce and Dukovany is actually a success of our common strategy. Since we cannot force nuclear exodus everywhere, at least at European level we have made the issue of security an essential and inevitable one. As far as Mochovce is concerned, it is to be said: The discussion about Mohovce is ancient, it comes back every year. The construction of Mochovce was, for example, one of the main points of the discussion in the first weeks when Dzurinda took up his office. At that time, the then Minister of Economic Affairs made exactly the same statement by saying: We need two more blocks! Then there was a discussion, that state aid should not be used for this purpose, but that private investors with the highest security standards are welcome, and after a 20-minute cabinet discussion, the issue was over because there is no one who would have paid it. This is also true with our argument that nuclear power plants are actually uneconomical today from the economic side. I think that we should continue to work together at this level and with the questioning of state subsidies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The last point, ladies and gentlemen: Member Moser has claimed that there has been no report from the Federal Government since 1998, the Federal Chancellor on the Anti-Atom Strategy, for four years, no, no more. I may be able to explain: Since 2000, we have rightly transferred the competences of anti-atomic policy to the Ministry of the Environment, now the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment. The final report is available from May 2002, a comprehensive progress report, which covers 116 pages at least. & Again: Let us not speak little of our joint efforts. We still have a long way ahead of us so we can get where we want to go together. But in principle: What has been achieved is definitely on the right track.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16212	Mr Van der Bellen. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, Mr Van der Bellen, for his excellent report. Other speaking time of the Green Group: 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16230	Mr President. The government groups put forward a soft request and now expect us to vote in favour of it. [[Abg. Scheibner: What is a patch?]] Mr Wittauer of the Liberals has gone so far as to say to my colleague, Mrs Glavischnig, that if she does not agree with that, she should leave the room and leave Parliament. I don't know what he meant by that, it'll keep his secret. If he meant what I was afraid of, I would know someone else who should leave Parliament. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] What does this request by ÖVP and FPÖ say inside? The only point that is relatively hard formulated is that of Bohunice. A piece of art, if even the EU Commission insists that the accession treaty with Slovakia should be adhered to, it will not be difficult for the government parties to join it. That is the good thing about the request, but above all I heard from the speakers of the ÖVP today: Don't take this so seriously, it's not that, it's a minister, a single opinion and so on. [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: That's not true!]] I heard that! I don't know who you've been talking to, anyway, I've taken that from you. I mean, this speech by Mr Gašparovic, the future President of Slovakia, with all due respect, from 15. He's president of June. That's not anyone. You have to break that on the tongue – I quote –: I am also opposed to the closure of the Bohunice nuclear power plant to the date proposed by the EU. - Quote. A signed treaty is suddenly a date proposed by the EU. So, in all friendship, it won't go! That is also clearly what we are writing in our proposal. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's how it looks!]] With you it is, well, after all, a “co-repressive existence”. At Mochovce, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ: That is enough for you to take appropriate measures against the expansion of Mochovce? That's what you're demanding from the Federal Government. Adequate measures? That means nothing! They agree with every measure, because that is totally undefined, what that means. In our view, much more strongly formulated is what we expect from an appropriate measure in this context. Mr Bundeskanzler Schüssel, I would be very grateful if you would not, in this context, point out to us here in Austria today that the legal situation is unfortunately such that each country can choose its own form of energy. That's true, and we know that too. But if we are already starting to say in Austria that there is no difference between an Austrian hydroelectric power plant or a power plant and Bohunice or Mochovce, then I have to say: Thank you many times! That's a big difference! The Austrian power plants do not endanger anyone, but Mochovce is very well. [[Abg. Scheibner: You have spoken against every junk animation!]] I have also completely missed an indication on your part – at least you could have said a single word about it; in particular, I would have expected from the ÖVP colleagues – that the security dimension of these issues has changed completely since the new dimension of terror existed. [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: Go!]] That's not a fear, it's just the logic: We are faced with a new situation, from which to draw consequences! Of course, these are particularly interesting for us when such a possible terrorist goal stands a few kilometers – I am now subservient – at the Austrian border. [[Abg. Scheibner: Never are you ready to draw the consequences from it!]] Well, Mr Scheibner, I don't know. Maybe you talked about it? I do not accept from the request that this is a problem for you. To point 3: Energy partnerships have to continue as in the past. – I say quite openly to you: I'm sure not! This is not what the Greens want, namely to continue this as in the past. I can recall that there was an initiative on Temelín at the time – that was before the conditions were so poisoned – to build a partnership, to provide an energy partnership, to provide the Czech Republic with appropriate financial assistance in the transition process and so on. The echo in Austrian politics on this proposal by Rudi Anschober and other green politicians was immediately null. There has been one who has supported this, however, unsuccessfully: That was Mr. Leitl at the time. I don't know if he was still a national councillor in Upper Austria at the time or already a President of the Chamber of Commerce. He didn't support it, no one else. If you continue this as in the past, this will lead exactly to the same effect as before, namely, nothing at all. Finally, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ, EURATOM does not occur at all in your request. This is apparently not a subject for you, since there is no order to the Federal Government. Federal Chancellor Schüssel mentioned this today in his second opinion that this is something to be pursued, in view of the fact, Schüssel said that nuclear power plants are not economic today. What about the EURATOM Treaty? That's not a subject for you in your application? – I appeal to the economists among you, for example, Mr stupid. The EURATOM Treaty is a foreign body in this contract. He's not part of the Constitution either, not even there. It constitutes a distortion of competition between the best ranges within the energy sources. Nowhere else, in no other field of energy, are such funding instruments intended as those for the nuclear industry. You know that as well as I do. This also makes it so important and right to approach EURATOM economically – apart from security policy. I expect the Austrian Presidency to put in place appropriate measures here at the latest in 2006. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16356	The next Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Molterer. Other speaking time of the People's Party: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16374	Federal Chancellor! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Van der Bellen, according to your speech, it is necessary to make some clarifications that I did not suspect you could be repeated once again on the basis of the four-party consensus so far. I'll do it to make it clear. First: The Austrian People's Party has an unmistakable, clear and valid attitude in the anti-atomic question: We are in favour of a European exit from nuclear energy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Secondly, We have a very clear attitude: We support the closure of nuclear power plants that do not meet the standards, and we have enforced that. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: We all want to close!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Austria has been able and successful in the accession negotiations on the enlargement of the European Union by ten Member States for the first time in the history of the European Union, and on the basis of this Austrian initiative, precisely those accession agreements have come into being, on the basis of which we, of course, also insist on Slovakia. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Thirdly, As co-responsible for the milking process and the Brussels agreement at the time, I can tell you that we have entered new countries with this model in the European Union, which has become a model for other countries. Ladies and gentlemen! I remember Ireland asking Austria how we did this when it came to the Irish-British discussions on Sellafield. Then the Irish said: What Austria has achieved is exemplary! - I think that's right. Fourth: Mr Van der Bellen! There is no doubt that, of course, in Europe's energy policy, we are reorientated and, with the energy partnership model, we are significantly contributing to the sustainable orientation of energy policy. This baseline is unmistakable and clear because it is committed to sustainability. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Fifth – last comment, ladies and gentlemen –: As far as EURATOM is concerned, we also have a clear position, which, by the way, is a consensus of all four parliamentary parties. Your colleague said that we should not repeat everything that is already consensus. In the EURATOM question we have him. It is Austria that launched the revision conference, initiated by Benita Ferrero-Waldner, in cooperation with Joschka Fischer. [[Abg. Brosz: And where did she happen?]] This revision conference, which we hope will bring the necessary success, is an Austrian initiative. We do not need to be accused and accused, ladies and gentlemen. I'm appealing to you: Voices You will be involved in this proposal so that we can clarify the way of the four-party consensus in the anti-atomic policy today, so that we can also send the Slovaks the right answer and the clear signal of the Austrian National Council.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16448	The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Cap. His group's remaining speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16467	We too would like to explain why we cannot accept this very soft request from ÖVP and FPÖ. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: How was Swoboda?]] I would just like to add that the Klubobmann Molterer's answer to Alexander Van der Bellen's discussion contribution, which – and I share every point of his criticism – has rightly not really responded to this “patch” request, as he said, which both government parties have criticised, on individual points. I also find it far too short to say that we have found a consensus in the EURATOM anyway, so we do not write it in at all. There are certainly a few points where we have consensus. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Is that the letter from Swoboda?]] It is a question of how to formulate this, how to interpret it and what you can finally understand from it. We can all write requests that are precise, or, of course, you can also, as you have done, write applications precisely imprecisely, because you simply do not want to have a clear political position on one question or another. Therefore, there is also a lack of – and that is at the same time one of the reasons why we do not agree – the reference to EURATOM. If you are talking about the revision conference to EURATOM, initiated by the Foreign Minister and in cooperation with Joschka Fischer, and so on, I ask you: Where is she? Where are the results? Where did she happen? In any case, this is something that is a smooth minus in its so-called anti-atomic policy, where you can't prove it. We actually have the prospect of opening up exit opportunities so that Austrian tax money is not used for the further expansion of nuclear power plants. That's the truth! This leads to a distortion of competition among energy sources, because this is in fact subsidized. All these are criticisms! There you could also reawaken your neoliberal spirit, which sleeps in you, but unfortunately always wakes up on the wrong questions and not where it would be necessary for you to live out this neoliberal spirit once. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It is also too little if you write:... requests the Federal Government, with emphasis on complete full implementation... What does “repressive ” mean? So we're meeting before the European Court of Justice. [[Abg. May. Molterer: What did the Federal Chancellor say?]] If you want us to agree to a request, then this idea and this point must stand inside, and then you should not say: At the sound so many, the Bun dekanzler said it, then sometime the clubman Molterer! Someone else didn't say it at all, but thought! – You can't make politics like that! If you are presenting an application for which you want the consent, then you have to talk about it earlier, then there has to be a consensus formulation, and then it has to be third-party and really prove... [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Don't laugh! –...really prove that you want to get out of nuclear energy. –With your previous policy, you have not proved this! In addition, there is also a lack of the basic idea of a Europe-wide referendum in order to really force that there is this exit from nuclear energy, which you constantly question with their Pragmatism. They are talking about the fact that each country can determine its energy forms and energy sources anyway and that there is therefore nothing to do if there are a few countries that remain with nuclear energy. In some cases these are nothing but a few articles of faith, but without any real political consequence. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] That's too little! That is why we cannot agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16564	There is no further statement of words to this effect. That concludes the debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 397/A (E) by Mrs Glawischnig, colleagues on silence and inactivity on the Slovak Government's expansion plans for Mochovce, the extension of the life of Bohunice V1 and the European nuclear exodus. I call on those Members of the House who vote in favour of this motion to give a sign in this regard. – The request did not find a majority and is therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Cap and the Group on the instrument of an EU-wide referendum, the holding of such a referendum on a Europe-wide exit from nuclear energy. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution, Dr Cap, give a sign on this point. – The request did not find a majority and is therefore largely rejected. Next, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Wittauer, the head and the political groups on the confirmation of the Austrian anti-atomic policy so far. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who would like to vote in favour of this motion to be a sign of approval. – This proposal, Wittauer, will be adopted by a majority vote. (E 51.) That is what we have done in the negotiations on the urgent question. Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16628	We are now entering into a short debate. This short debate concerns the request of the honourable Member. Lunacek, the financial institution Committee on Reporting on Application 25/A (E) concerning the introduction of a foreign exchange transaction tax, a period of time until 15. June of this year. Following the end of the debate, this request will be put to the vote. We are going into the debate. No speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, except for the first speaker who has 10 minutes of speaking time to justify the request. Each group can make a speaker in the debate. First speaker is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. Speech time: 10 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16664	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This debate is about the exchange transaction tax. I know that this is not quite easy for some to get over the lips, I will also explain what it is all about, but first of all, to the background of this debate: This is a request which we Greens made at the first part-session of the current legislative period, namely on 20 July. It was placed on the agenda of the Financial Committee on December 2002, and has not yet found its way into the agenda. At that time, impressed by several statements made by the Foreign Minister in the election campaign, we thought that there might be certain hopes that the ÖVP would also be ready to debate on the issue of Tobin-Tax, i.e. foreign exchange tax, at least in Parliament, and have made this request. Let me quote from the Minister of Foreign Affairs of 23. This is mentioned here in October 2002. At the time, she meant: I will use innovative methods to increase the resources available for development cooperation. These include extra-budget measures, such as the introduction of a Tobin tax, a small levy on international financial speculation, in order to reduce their risk to weaker economies and at the same time obtain additional funds for development cooperation. – This was said by the Foreign Minister – and not by the Greens – in October 2002. Based on these statements, we thought that the ÖVP, perhaps also the FPÖ, who is always in the government – we were not – will be ready to debate it in the National Council. – Mr colleague smiles stupidly. It would interest me why this has not even come to the agenda, why you seem not even interested in debating it. Why do the government groups have no interest in debating issues that are sustainable – a word that you are now happy to hear from – both socially and ecologically and economically sustainable? We have not said that we want a law to be implemented, but we have said that only once do we want to have a debate about an initiative from Austria. – No, unfortunately none of that happened. What is it about this Tobin tax? – There are three points that are relevant: On the one hand, it would make it possible to take a step towards economic stabilisation, and on the other hand, measures could be taken to prevent economic shocks caused by speculation, particularly in short-term foreign exchange transactions. Thirdly, this instrument would be additional financial resources, not very few – in the billions of euros – for development cooperation, but also for the achievement of the Millennium Entrepreneurship. the development objectives agreed by the UN with the support of Austria at the UN General Assembly in 2000. It is incomprehensible to me that an initiative that does not cost anything – for that we would not even have to save, on the contrary, it would even bring money, it is not just a political will – is not even taken up. They don't even say: Now let's talk about it! This is really incomprehensible to me, Dr. stupid and ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and of the FPÖ! It doesn't cost anything! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Something that doesn't cost anything would be something. But we'll see what you're saying. Perhaps you are willing to do so in the future and at least in the next financial committee to allow a debate on this. The Tobin tax is, as it were, the common name for the somewhat more difficult concept of foreign exchange tax. The name goes back to the Nobel Prize-winner James Tobin, who has already proposed a 1 percent tax on exchange rates, i.e. foreign exchange transactions, in order to bring some sand into the gear of these speculations, in order to reduce foreign exchange transactions made by individual speculators, in particular by banks, large banks, and thus above all to stabilise weaker economies. The risk of stability is certainly nothing new to you. We have noticed this in the great financial crisis in Southeast Asia in the 1990s, which has been caused by, among other things, speculation overheating, and according to ILO – that is, not anyone, but the International Labour Organization – has cost the 10 million jobs in these years. If you say, in view of that, that would be nothing important, where perhaps Austria could also become an initiative, and where it costs nothing, but even brings something else, then you have to explain it to me. Why don't you plan on that? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But let me also go back to the recent past and explain why this has become more up-to-date just in the late 1990s after this crisis in Southeast Asia, but also in Latin America and now. If you look at the foreign exchange transactions, you have to say that they have just exploded since the beginning of the 1970s, from $70 billion to $1100 billion a day in 2001. World trade, on the other hand, has only doubled by two and a half to 25 billion dollars a day in these years. Direct investment even makes a berth with less than 3 billion dollars a day. So that means: What really goes into the economy is a fraction of what is increased in the area of speculation from few in money, but this has no real impact on the economy and on jobs. This is the reason why initiatives have been launched in recent years by various organisations, as well as by economists and governments, not only by a few governments. In France, in Belgium, there are even laws to do so. They have said, so to speak, that there is a European initiative: Well, then we will prepare the national laws for this, we will adapt the banking and tax laws to be ready if there is such an initiative at EU level. – That would be something for Austria too. Perhaps this could be done for the Austrian EU Presidency in 2006. In addition to economic stabilisation, the second point is that this would result in a lot of money. In our opinion, this money should be used not only for the national budget, but above all for the poor – and for not to say micky – finally to increase Austrian budget for development cooperation. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I have just received today a notice from the Vöcklabruck City Office, which, by the way, has gone to all the national council club members, that there is a unanimous decision that this initiative is to be reached by 2010 of the 0.7 percent that each country's development funds are to account for 0.7 percent of gross national income. This was a unanimous decision in Vöcklabruck and also in the fields, i.e. all the political groups, also decided by ÖVP and FPÖ. Your people at community level are very likely to do something in this direction. The Tobin tax, the foreign exchange transaction tax, would be a way to move forward. Now, of course, many say: Austria alone cannot do anything, we are within the EU, it is not everything, and we cannot do anything, the others are to blame! And so on. – In 2002, the German Minister for Development commissioned the well-known economist Spahn to conduct a study on this issue: The EU area plus Switzerland would be a possibility! You don't have to wait for the US or other states! That would be enough! You laugh and think the British will never join us, and neither did the Swiss, but did you believe ten years ago that there would be an International Criminal Court? – I know it’s not ideal yet, because the US isn’t yet with and others either, but if you always wait in the hope that the others will do something, and then perhaps go after something, then never happens. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and also of the FPÖ! You are the ones who, since you've been in the government, always say: We're so innovative, we're doing so much new! “Speed kills” was even a motto of you. Unfortunately, I have not noticed anything about Speed in this area of yours. A little more speed in this direction would probably be recommended. A little more innovation, when it comes to new measures, would be desirable. These measures – I repeat it again – cost nothing and are technically feasible. It is already clear to me that there is a need for a certain start and that it is not true that if the Austrian Federal Government says today that this must happen, something really will happen tomorrow, but one should at least set an initiative and in this case learn from the statements of the Foreign Minister in the 2002 National Council election campaign, ladies and gentlemen! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16781	We are now going into the debate. There are 5 minutes of speaking time available per word. The first Member of Parliament to speak is Dr. Stummful. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16805	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to admit that the Tobin tax is one of those ideas that is incredibly fascinating from the thought approach, just as fascinating as the value-added tax, but there must be a reason why the idea of the 1972 Tobin tax or the idea of the value-added tax from 1964 was not realized for decades. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] The reason, Mrs Collaborative, is that the approach to thinking is insanely bribery. If you're a little closer to this idea, then you'll find that there are barriers that are actually insurmountable. In the autumn of 2001, the famous James Tobin, Nobel Prizewinner, in a longer interview in the “Spiegel”, Nr. 36/2001, on the question: Do you yourself believe that your tax will be introduced once?, answered: No chance, I'm afraid! Last year, the German Finance Minister Eichel said – Eichel is not close to us, you know – that the Tobin tax can only be effective if they introduced virtually all the countries of the world, and that is an illusion. – That is, Mrs Lunacek, we have the following problem: This idea is undoubtedly bribery. On the other hand, who would not be taxed at billions of foreign exchange speculations that could endanger all currencies? None of us have anything against it. The only problem is that I believe that even the EU level is far too narrow. That's what I think of Eichel, namely: If this tax is introduced, then the US, Asia and Japan must participate, and then there must be no more tax havens. You know exactly, today all this runs partly via the Internet at the push of a button. To believe that something can be done at EU level alone is wrong. I'll tell you: Even if the US joins, and even if Japan participates, the problem is not solvable. All of this today is about tax havens, tax havens, where the push of a button over the Internet is being pushed to and fro billions of foreign exchange, although no one wants it from us. We all want solutions, and I am very grateful to Mrs Ferrero-Waldner for her commitment to it, but it is, I admit, practically hopeless, as I hope to succeed, because the concrete barriers are just too big and a thought-thinking idea would simply fail, unfortunately, that we would never reach a consensus of all the countries of the world. That is why I think it is a bit grotesque, an idea that has been discussed worldwide for 34 years, to bring it to Parliament by setting a few days' notice. It's just absurd. However, I am willing to discuss this subject for hours. Do you know what James Tobin said in this “Mirror ” interview? He's on the question: What do you say about the EU's discussion of the Tobin tax between the Ministers for Economic and Financial Affairs and Finance said: Just for show! – For “just for show” I am not to have, Mrs. Colleague!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16859	The next speaker is Mr Matznetter. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16878	Mr President. Empty government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The question, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, must have been resolved. They said we have a staggering idea that fails because it will never be implemented. The answer to this is relatively simple: If this attitude takes place, according to the motto: There's a loophole somewhere, there's a tax paradise somewhere!, then we don't have to start at all, then I'd almost suggest, we quote Dr. Böhmdorfer, because then we can forget that more than that and then we'll be able to smuggle money laundering with all the other things. - That's an excuse! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: 30 years red Finance Minister!]] However, I would like to refer to an important point: We have a deadline request here, Mr Lunacek, on the first day of this legislative period, on 20 June. ==References====External links== Since then, you have not even found it worth the effort to put this request on the agenda. This is fundamental prevention of discussions in this House, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It should not be the style of this House that such things, which are still very important in this respect, of the “Benita”, as our foreign minister has been so beautiful since the election campaign, are being pushed from the last days of the National Council election campaign, to the long bank. It has made nothing but an interested part of the public – and a part that does not deal with the pessimistic note that nothing can be done that has been so for 30 years, but that is why it is fighting – to declare that something has to be done in this area, that is to say a promise given [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: 30 years red Finance Minister!]] I'm counting on those - I'm saying this quite openly here - who are not content with saying that it's too difficult, so you don't take it at all. I shall endeavour to do this and to ensure that such things are implemented, and therefore I support this project. Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. We have a financial committee, and it would be useful to discuss it within the framework of that. The motion for a resolution is not a problem for the government. He would only force you to take the promise seriously in the election campaign and would lead to the small Austrian rise within the Union and say: We must do something in this area! If the Union says: We want a foreign exchange transaction tax, then that's no problem at all. As a Union, we can also implement external tax law. That is where the Spahn study is right if it states that one can actually impose a requirement stand against the deviation in financial places where the tax is not collected. Whoever then never wants to be economically active in the Union, does not want to carry out any contracts, he should be active on the Bahamas or elsewhere. But at the moment when he is working here, there will be a reimbursement in the amount of the foreign exchange transaction tax. I think that the major trading houses in this world also have an urgent interest in the securities field to submit to these things. Noteabene: What you have called bribery, Mr President, is really bribery. For the normal daily business on the financial markets, the Tobin tax is no problem. But then, if the aim of arbitration is to act in a very short period of time – with minimum margins inflated and high volume – which is co-responsible for developments in the oil market and in other markets with fifty results, we all have a problem. The “Tobin-Tax” response means changing the market to a proper business, which, of course, also needs to take place in the case of financial products. This tax will never be a problem for the real economy. The introduction of the Tobin tax would be an opportunity to raise funds, and thus we could do with EZA what we have been guilty for decades, namely to put up funds seriously. Ladies and gentlemen! We all know that we work in the EZA sector: The Ministry of Finance does not provide us with funds for the objectives to which the commitment already exists. The foreign minister has a huge problem because she cannot comply with the commitments. A tobin tax initiative would at least be something where we could show that we want to take this seriously together, that is, all four political groups, and a European initiative. I'm advocating for your approval. I think we can take care of the further discussion in the Financial Committee. I wish we could get a little further after two years of lying down. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16954	Mr Bucher. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Same time of speech. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16972	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Much has already been said about the foreign exchange transaction law, but I would nevertheless like to add one point to the discussion: Mr. Tobin was a money theorist, who – unfortunately he has already passed away – set up the theory of the Tobin tax about 32 years ago, Mrs. Lunacek, but in the meantime has changed a lot. Much has changed in the European Union too. As you know, we now have a Stability and Monetary Pact in the European Union, and monetary speculation at European level is no longer taking place to this extent, such as 32 years ago. That means discussing this issue alone at European level, I think, honestly, too little, because this is far too small a space, because the foreign exchange speculation takes place primarily on ASEAN markets. I am thinking only of the dollar, which is much too high and which Japan and China have made massive foreign exchange interventions to anchor the dollar price at this high level. This is basically a theoretical model that we are discussing here, which will not have a chance and an opportunity to ever get to the realization. In addition, I also believe that this would not be a very positive signal, now that we are trying to strengthen the exchanges in Europe and especially in Austria, to discuss a new tax again. We should be very careful, also in dealing with the discussion of new taxes. Now we have made a great tax reform, which will bring from next year a huge relief of €2.5 billion. Now to discuss a new tax again, I would in principle consider that not very meaningful. I also think that an example for us should already have weight, namely, Sweden. In Sweden, in 1994 a speculation tax was introduced, a transaction tax on trade in shares. This was an educational example for us, because within just half a year, 50 percent of all stock speculations have migrated from the Swedish Stock Exchange Square to London. So the desired effect has been avoided and the economy has certainly brought little. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We are going to discuss this in the Committee, but I would not recommend it as an appropriate instrument, because we have the International Monetary Fund as a single currency. visible authority, we have financial supervision in Austria and we also have the Bank for International Balance of Payments for this purpose. We are well advised not to join this theory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17032	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Same time of speech: 5 minutes. Then the vote will be taken. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17051	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Estimated forewords, you've confused a few things. Firstly, it is precisely our concern that we can discuss this in the Committee. You have obviously confused this with a first reading. The fact is: Since the beginning of this legislative period, the application has been filed and it will be – see! – not transferred to the Committee for treatment. That is the problem, and that is why there is a deadline proposal here for our part. - So much to form. On the other hand, Mr President-in-Office, who is not here right now, it is already striking that otherwise you will always require our consent and willingness to negotiate certain things and put them on the agenda; They will then also receive them, for example, in the investment protection agreements et cetera which are not so far away from the subject. We've been negotiating for all ages, starting from the last legislative period, that we finally come to an inquiry and discuss these things. But this is constantly being postponed, and yet you always expect our approval. If you could jump over your shadows and allow this debate, which the colleague of the FPÖ is going to take, in the committee, we would already be a step further. In the matter now: No one claims that this is simple and somehow feasible. The principle of effectiveness is staggeringly simple, that's right. That has been explained. I repeat only once again that it is primarily a steering charge and not a financing levy, as you clearly meant, because you have just referred to the Austrian tax reform. It relates exclusively to financial transactions or ultimately to financial transactions that are speculative. This has nothing to do with stock trading on a special stock exchange. With this example you have failed. That's really fascinating Simply on this thing is that these short-term speculations, which are going on in fractions of seconds, are being burdened accordingly. For example – I say a house number – one to two percent or only half a percent would be very, very much – for such an arbitrage profit taking. In practice, since most such projects are already tipping out on their own, while a normal foreign exchange business, which is only going on for a year or a half, is almost no longer affected by this margin, let alone any real business, a commodity, trade turnover – apart from the possibility of re-funding this with the import turnover tax. All of this might be too complicated, but there it is not even felt. An investment of about ten years would no longer be tangled, because with this simple instrument we would already have 0.01 percent of the burden of this investment. - But be it. The opposition, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and you argue that this will never come because, I don't know, the US is not involved or anything else. Yeah, that's a problem that's right, but it's not as big a problem as you say. You should look at the numbers. 80 percent of the foreign exchange trade is handled by eight countries. There are a number of Euro countries involved. When you take the US out, it's still 65 to 67 percent, depending on the year – we say two thirds. Still! That's where I wonder if you can't risk it. In other areas, we do not always wait for the USA. I don't want to address any other questions here now, it happens tragic enough, but one thing I already notice: If we were to wait for the United States everywhere, we would look pretty dark in the world! – That's what I'm trying to keep from.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17108	All the political groups have come to terms here. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the honourable Member. Lunacek, the Financial Committee for Reporting on Amendment 25/A (E) by Mr Mag. Lunacek, colleagues on the introduction of a foreign exchange transaction tax (Tobin-Tax) until the 15th century. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this deadline proposal to give an appropriate sign. – I notice: The application does not find a majority. He is therefore rejected. We have dealt with this subject of negotiation. Please don't have a phone call at the meeting room! The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17148	We shall return to Agenda item 4. Mr Schweisgut. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. The watch is gladly set to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17170	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We are now returning to the holiday regulations and to the request for long-term coordination of holiday periods. I should like to comment once again on what this is all about. This is not about business for some tourism companies, but about framework conditions for the future. It is a question of resolving problems arising from the 2005 holiday regulations for the future. We have been discussing for a few months that this year's semester holidays for 2005 can hardly be changed. There is a constellation that occurs every few years, namely that this year – which is related to the Easter holidays – the carnival week in Germany, one of the most important winter sports weeks in the alpine region, at the same time as the semester holidays for Vienna, Lower Austria and also It coincides with the Crocus holidays in the Netherlands. So it is to be expected that there will be an enormous storm on our ski resorts. Why is this a problem for Parliament? . I believe that the holiday regulations and therefore also the creation of framework conditions for both guests and entrepreneurs are with our task. There will be an enormous increase in traffic. There will be higher prices for the Austrian families. There will also be a limited range of sports by overfilling the shipists. It is therefore our task, of course, to change the relevant framework conditions. We have tabled this motion for a resolution because we know that in the short term this problem cannot be solved, that many major events have already been booked, that balls are organized, that congresses are also aimed at holiday times and that very many bookings have already been made in advance. Of course, competence is also available in various areas, such as the Ministry of Education. But we also feel responsible as an economy. Of course, countries would also have to make their contribution to this, just as it would have been possible for 2005 only to achieve an amendment on this subject through a request from the countries. In the future, therefore, we want to discuss not only with Germany, not only with some of our neighbouring countries, but also with the Ministry of Education in general: of course, with the involvement of all educational and school problems. However, we also want the tourism industry to be involved and a common coordination for the holiday regulations is also planned with the countries. I am pleased that I have been able to say to previous speakers that all four parties will follow this request. I believe that it is very reasonable to be able to make a long-term planning, to have satisfied holidaymakers and also satisfaction in the economy, but at the same time not to ignore the pedagogical aspects. So this should be our goal. – I thank all the parties for their support.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17224	Mr Schweisgut, have you spoken about a motion for a resolution tabled in committee? Now in plenary, no one has been brought in. [[Abg. Schweisgut knows this.]] Mr Marizzi is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17251	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! First of all, I would like to refer briefly to previous speakers. Mr Mitterlehner, you said that the problem was quite simple; we simply had to coordinate it and seek consensus. So I wonder a little and I wonder why you ignored the request made by our tourist speaker Hoscher at the time as far as a 2005 regulation is concerned. Of course, the holiday arrangement – and this includes the semester holiday arrangement – is important for the economy and for the families. On the comments by Mrs Rossmann, who meant that we should coordinate this better and we should be a little more flexible: Who does she mean by "man"? - Probably the man who's behind me now, Minister of Economic Affairs Bartenstein. [[Abg. Weisgut: This means the countries of Vienna and Lower Austria!]] Of course, you'd better coordinate that. For example, the Austrian Hoteliers' Association, which is not a precursor organisation of the SPÖ, wrote in a press release on the 2005 semester holidays – I quote: Holiday frustration instead of holiday lust. Traffic jams and angry guests are threatening in the second week of February. - Quote. Just think that 22 million Germans, Dutch and Belgians will be sent on holiday together with the Vienna and the Lower Austrians! Let us also remember, especially in the context of the enlargement of the EU, that there is still a considerable increase in transit traffic! Certainly a holiday break for the families – and family-friendly is not exactly that. Remembering the economy, I must say: That hurts, says this one: On the one hand, many families are taking away the possibility of recreation, and on the other hand, Hoteliers – which is really your clientele – and without a clear reason, a week's turnover away, even in February, when we're in double pain, this month finally contributes to the total winter result about 25 percent! [[towards ÖVP]] You know all this, Mr Bartenstein – and yet the same mistakes will be made in 2005 as in Germany! The ARBÖ has already meant that this situation could be eroded. Kaske also said that Europe needed a common regime. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, such mistakes should no longer be made. I believe that Parliament, and the Federal Government in particular, is called upon to ensure that such solutions, as they exist for 2005, are no longer practised. I also believe that it is not necessary that everyone should take a holiday at the same time and that there is no seasonal extension. In the medium term, coordination in this respect is also a matter for this Federal Government. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17291	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17309	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I should like to express my impression here, which I took away from the committee – not for the first time, but for the time being – and which was also confirmed by my previous speaker. There is a problem somewhere – and there is a reflexible debt allocation: Who missed something when? – Peter Marizzi has made the Minister of Economic Affairs responsible for the lack of coordination. The Committee was responsible for this, as was the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour. What's this about? – In principle, a new arrangement of semester holidays. There is a desire for the leisure and tourism industries to make a shift in this regard. The reason is also known, has already been mentioned: The holidays in Lower Austria and Vienna, that is, the high population of the Federal Republic of Germany, fall together with the holidays of six populous federal states of Germany, plus those of the Benelux countries. Of course, there is a traffic shaft on the arrival to Austrian winter sports areas. There is a problem of accommodation; Overbooking is not just serious, not just practical or even desirable. – On the side of the opposition there are therefore automatically these debt allocations: Bartenstein and Gehrer are to blame for this situation! Fact is – it would be easy to point the blame elsewhere –: If an application had been submitted in good time for the relocation of the semester holidays for Vienna and Lower Austria, precisely by the federal states of Lower Austria and Vienna, by the relevant national school councils, this request would have been dealt with. However, I do not believe that it would have become a reasonable solution, even if one had been looking for such a solution. It would now be, as has been said, to make a slight, towards mayor Häupl, towards the Lower Austrian head of state or the state school councils of these federal states a debt assignment, but that would be too easy. I believe that this problem is quite complex, that the interests of the tourism industry, even with their demand, are quite justified, and that transport problems are certainly not to be denied, but are given in this case – and that the interests of trade in Vienna are of course also worthy of consideration. Mayor Häupl has expressed this. In this context, the holiday scheme in Germany should take into account which countries are particularly affected. It would also be necessary to raise which federal states in the new member countries of the European Union, especially our neighbouring countries, when they have holiday weeks. It is also important to take into account planning periods – up to the planning period of the ball calendar in Vienna. There are, therefore, many arguments that are involved. Last but not least, as I mean, there should also be no regard for pedagogical arguments, as should the concerns of students, parents and teachers. It is to be considered whether arrival dates are to be moved, whether holiday dates actually have to coincide with certification dates, as my colleague Rossmann pointed out. Mr Matznetter said in the Committee that: Of course, it is possible to find a scheme by 2005 if you want only. – I think so too, only: I do not think it would be useful, but I consider it useful to do away with this, and to instruct the Federal Minister for Education, Science and Culture with the coordination work between individual federal states, between individual national school councils, between the economy and all those involved – in the legitimate hope of developing a reasonable, sustainable, manageable and time-fixed solution. I am convinced that this will also work in the future – and this, ladies and gentlemen, without any credit award!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17371	Mr Mandak. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his excellent report. The clock is set to 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17389	Mr President. High house! Mr Hofmann, you are already right: I do not think it would be useful for the hip shots to use a lot, but we would ask for solutions to the problem. The problems need to be addressed, and they usually do not come from bright heaven, but there are responsibilities. I think it is legitimate to address these in the political discourse and to say who is actually responsible for solving a problem. This has nothing to do with a hip shot at all. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann: Mayor Häupl!]] – For example, or head of state Pröll. - Okay, you're out of the tailor again, because you only have Haider. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: What does “only” mean?]] This proposal concerns the long-term planning of optimal periods. – That’s quite positive. I would like the first aspect to be the educational framework and only then to be tourism and business – with all appreciation of these two areas. The main reason for our children going to school is that they learn something, not that tourism benefits through the holidays. There you have to see the relations clearly. As a family speaker, however, I would like it to be not only about the optimal time, but also about the optimal framework conditions as such for holidays in general, on the one hand about the pedagogical meaning of the time and on the other hand about the time planning both for parents and for the economy. There is another very important point that has not been discussed here at all, because it has just been about the time aspect, the increasing challenge for parents, which it means for them when the children have vacations. We are now always talking about those parents for whom it is possible to travel on vacation, and who also use it. However, the vast majority of parents – that is what you have to say – do not have these possibilities. If both parents are employed, they face the huge problem of what happens to the children on vacation, who care for them and where there is a good care option. That's where the communities are required. They are completely rearward throughout the organization of holiday care. This is a challenge for me. I would like to see it not only in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs but also in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, as it can be said that it is also a matter of ensuring childcare during the holidays. In Vorarlberg, for example, the situation is such that a school-time law has been changed. There the planning for autumn holidays is clearly marked by the pooling of the school autonomous days. That is to say, there will then suddenly be a school-free week in the autumn, and the holes between the parents' holiday demands and the children's holidays are constantly claping apart. This can't be so grueling, but we need solutions that serve not only the economy and tourism, but also the parents and the families, so that the children can be well cared for during the holiday period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17445	I call Mr Ledolter. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17463	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! At the beginning, I would like to make the following very clear in the direction of the opposition parties: Ladies and gentlemen! This debate may be suitable for a number of things, but certainly not for the government, or Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. The policy of this Federal Government is family-friendly and focused on the needs of the families, but also always addressing the needs and the concerns of the economy. There is again a topic on which to bring these two interests together. The legal framework would be sufficient to address this problem. There is also no lack of opportunities, but it seems that some of the parties do not really want to bring about measures that lead to an accident-like change. One of the essential principles of the holiday arrangement is also the planning and long-term predictability of this holiday. This is what educators, children and families want to be able to adapt to, but also the economy. That is why it is good if we are talking about a long perspective and if we are working to bring it about in the interests of the economy. Ladies and gentlemen! There is no question that there are legitimate interests on the part of the economy to increase bed loads through unbundling and to help tourism companies to reduce negative equity. The economic contribution of tourism is kept very high. However, it is also about rural structural policy, which involves networking between the interests of the economy and tourism, the needs of agriculture and other aspects. All this is to be reconciled. As an obmann and chairman of one of the strongest tourism regions in Lower Austria, I do not want to lose sight of the fact that with the 1. May 2004 Austria is in the middle of Europe and, as a result of this repositioning, very different tourist flows will be expected in the future. We have been working successfully for guests from these new countries for more than a decade within the framework of our “Lower Austria South” tourism organisation, and of course we want to make their arrival and stay as pleasant as possible. It is therefore also necessary to look for a long-term perspective for visitors from our neighbouring countries. This is an initiative that brings the interests of the economy, the students and the families, and thus also the factors of the proven and reliable policy of our Minister of Economic Affairs Martin Bartenstein into a denominator, in the interest of all the groups involved in the reorganisation of this matter across the EU.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17511	Next speaker is Mrs Scharer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17530	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Because of the debate on the holiday scheme in recent months, especially in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, it is clear to me that this government simply does not want to be incomprehensible. – You have given this impression. They know that especially in the rural tourist regions where hotels and restaurants represent important pillars of the economy, but also of the labour market, there was no difference between the semester holidays. The utilization will be reduced by one week in February 2005 and only in the Federal Republic of Germany Salzburg is expected to lose 1.2 percent of value. Minister! These economic concerns should be in your interest! – In whose interest is it otherwise? Mr. Minister, you also said today that this government is particularly family-friendly. Our understanding of family kindness also includes the fact that in recent years especially attractive arrangements have been created for Eastern Austria in order to enable families with school-based children to have a cheap winter sports holiday. This reduction cannot be granted during this very long week, and many families will simply not be able to afford the increased prices. However, there is also a lack of willingness to accept this theme known for a long time and to bring about a solution that is pedagogical, family and environmental policy compatible with tourists in consensus. Minister! You've known that for a year! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It does not matter to tourists whether the Minister of Education is responsible for the fact that the Heads of State should have applied for the deadline when one could have done so if one had wanted to, Mr Mitterlehner, and, Mr Langreiter, whether the SPÖ resolution request is dirty or not. The tourism industry is expecting clear statements, but above all a quick action. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There would be another opportunity, with the SPÖ's motion for a resolution introduced in the Committee on Education. I have to say: A distortion of the holiday system is and will become more of a task in the European Union than ever. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If this government is unable to identify the problems in the west of Austria from the perspective of Austria, I wonder how the EU-wide steering task should be carried out in tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17596	The next speaker is Mrs Mikesch. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17614	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Today's motion for a resolution on the long-term coordination of semester holidays concludes a discussion which has not always been very happy by all sides. In the media vortexing, if the deadlines for a shift in semester holidays 2005 have already expired, is certainly not a target. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Worm: Time limits are a formal argument!]] Ladies and gentlemen! As an entrepreneur and mother, I tell you clearly: The most important aspect of the semester holidays is pedagogical, and on this the dates must be first and foremost tuned. The year 2005, which is the occasion for the whole discussion, however, has other special features in addition to the coincidence of the semester holidays in eastern Austria with the holidays in some German federal states. A pre-arrangement of the holiday would have led to a very short schooling period due to the extended Christmas holidays, so that the lessons would have been disturbed and exams would have been difficult. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Stop constantly putting our Minister of Education in the first row on this issue! The application for this shift is for the countries and the national school councils. Neither the Lower Austrian state government nor the city of Vienna and its national school councils have made timely applications for the relocation of semester holidays in 2005 and that is well thought out. The problem is much more complex. For example, Vienna trade is against short-term relocation of semester holidays, as this would also change the final sales and therefore important sales times. [[Abg. Reheis: That's incredible!]] [[Abg. May. Worm: Educationally very important!]] Many events in the carnival as well as the big balls are also planned many years in advance and coordinated with the semester holidays, but also many parents plan and book in the long term. [[Abg. May. Worm: You must be able to afford it!]] Conversions would certainly have been very difficult, and I would stress once again: First of all, holidays do not have a tourist but rather a pedagogical purpose. [[Abg. May. Worm: Your argument is the summer closing sale!]] Of course I understand the tourism industry in western Austria, but the Lower Austrian tourism industry sees natural opportunities in the situation in 2005. Their numbers will continue to rise, and the people from our eastern neighbouring countries – now members of the European Union – are making more and more holidays in Austria. It is our job to look into the future, not into the past. This resolution makes longer-term planning possible beyond a few years. Voting with our new EU neighbours is also necessary in these considerations for the future. Ladies and gentlemen! We want the best solutions for all, primarily for the students, for the parents and for our economy, therefore: Let us look together into a successful future!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17710	There is no further statement of words to this effect. We shall therefore vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report in 508 of the Supplements. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, we agree with this resolution to give us a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 52.) 5. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report (III-67, D.B.) of the Court of Auditors on the outcome of its collection of average income and the additional benefits for pensions for undertakings and institutions in the field of the public economy of the Federal Republic of Germany in 2001 and 2002 (460 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17750	We're on the 5th. Agenda item. There is no need for oral reporting. As the first speaker, Mr Herzegovina spoke. The watch is gladly set to 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17774	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is certainly permissible to find a few words on the election of the future President of the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Will you be, Mr. Colleague?]] Mrs Fekter! I think it is also undisputed with you that a President of the Court of Auditors should be independent of the government, that he should be critical and that he needs remorse and steadfastness. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Say this, the next twelve years you want...!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I mean, there is an ideal way to this goal, if you think a little about it, namely that the opposition proposes a candidate or a candidate, who is or is able to agree, and that, in the end, an agreement of all political groups is reached, Mr President! [[Abg. Neudeck: You haven't mentioned one like that yet!]] I believe that this thesis exists in all constellations. Another thing: A President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors is very strong in the public, and of course it is crucial for the work of a President of Public Trust. Ladies and gentlemen! Then why shouldn't a hearing be public? What are the reasons for this? What's there to hide here? I cannot imagine any unexpected reason why no public hearing should take place. Ladies and gentlemen! The most state-politically correct and safe way of selection for taxpayers is a proposal of opposition, then a public hearing and ultimately a four-party agreement. Think about it, maybe we'll find a common way! Ladies and gentlemen! Very briefly to the report on average income: We from the SPÖ would have wanted a name-named mention of the references of the top state managers. There have been lengthy national and international legal procedures. - I want to save this now. Finally, this has also been rejected by the Constitutional Court. It is not my basic idea of democracy that the judges have the last word, but in this case there is a simpler way, since you do not have to act as legislators with Brachial force. If one wants to achieve the objective of acceptable public relations, it is enough if all comply with the contract stencil regulation. However, there would be some commitment and commitment from the owner – the Minister of Finance – for example at the ÖIAG, but he says he doesn't care, he himself spends money with full hands and throws money out of the window himself. That is why there are, of course, misunderstandings and excesses. Speaking, ladies and gentlemen: I do not want to spare all of you from the ÖVP and the FPÖ either. The Court's criticism is: no comparative offers, no time records, questionable mandates, no rules, no high-percent consultation, no formal and content, no pseudo-exhibition and so on. [[Abg. Neudeck: This does not belong to the item on the agenda, but does not matter!]] The President of the Court of Auditors rightly notes that 50 percent of these expenditures could be saved. What does the Minister of Finance say, ladies and gentlemen? - That's a smooth scandal! The Federal Minister for Finance sees a constructive and objective contribution in the current Court of Auditors' exercise report. Again: Mr President, 50 per cent are funds that have been cut out of the window. The Minister of Finance then says that in no way has the Federal Minister for Finance been squandered with taxpayers, but in the best possible performance of the legal order by the use of external consultants enormous potential for savings and recovery have been achieved. Ladies and gentlemen! This is white cock! In view of the insolence of the Minister for Finance, the President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors is certainly inconceivable. This is really unacceptable, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to mention what you would have to do about the FPRD and the ÖVP Group: They would also have something to worry about, on the one hand, because there are reasonable references in the close-to-state establishments, and on the other hand, because this scandal about the advisory agreements is finally abandoned and Grasser is turned into the barriers. As far as the Court of Auditors and taxpayers are concerned, and government advertising, propaganda, is concerned: Since the year and day, the President of the Council has been calling for guidelines here, which also calls for opposition. But they don't make any sense about this. It is not reasonable to the taxpayer that you throw out tax money for propaganda of this federal government at the window. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17864	The next speaker is Mr Gahr. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17883	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Herzegovina, there is currently a selection procedure for the appointment of the President of the Court of Auditors. We had a reliable President of the Court of Auditors so far, and I am sure that this hearing will also give us a reliable and independent President for the future. Today we are discussing the 2001 and 2002 income report, which reflects developments and changes in the income situation in the public sector. This report gives a good overview of the income situation in the public sector and is very useful compared to the claims made in the Committee. There are possibilities for improvement, and each one of us here in the House has the duty to cooperate and improve shortcomings and weaknesses. At present, the Administrative Court has to decide whether the Court of Auditors has jurisdiction to examine Austrian Airlines and Telekom, so who is responsible for it. In 2002, 317 companies with 154 719 employees were examined. By comparison, in 1998 there were 470 enterprises with 236 519 employees. Thus, overall there is a tendency to decline in the examinations, through breakdowns, privatisations and, of course, restructurings in the public sector. The report clearly notes that supplementary benefits for pensions have been reduced, that there are fewer pensioners compared to the 1999/2000 report. It was also in line with the mandate of the separate designation of income recipients, which are governed by the Contributory Limitation Act, whose income is thus above the salary of the Federal Chancellor. In this respect, there are excesses in the areas of Austrian Airlines, ÖIAG, ÖBB, the electricity supplier and Post and Telekom. In the 1999/2000 reporting period, there were 36 companies in Austria which showed increased remuneration. In 2001/2002 it was only 18 companies. All in all, it may also be critical to note that the debate on public relations is a topic of concern to the outside world. For some in this House, but also in the media world, public relations are always too high, because one simply explores the reality, namely that we also need good and reliable employees in the public sector and expect to be able to take responsibility. Everyone should also remember that behind every person there is a certain anonymity. It is not possible to state everything publicly, either, because every human being has the right to maintain his anonymity. The public economy needs the best minds to meet the expectations of society to society at all. From my point of view: Criticism, yes, but with measure and feeling. It cannot be that good employees migrate to the private sector. We must try to win the best people for the public economy. The income report is an expensive work and also a dry matter, it is a numerical convoluted, yet thanks to the Statistical Central Office for the provision as a data base. A thank you to the officials of the Court of Auditors, and a special thanks to President Dr. Fiedler for his careful and serious work, his serious evaluation of the audit projects. [[It is a pleasure to the ÖVP and to representatives of the Freeman and the SPÖ.]] Finally, it should be noted that: The Court of Auditors report gives this Federal Government a very positive witness. Reforms of the ÖVP/FPÖ government are also taking place in the public sector. I think that's positive for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17950	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. The watch is set voluntarily to 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17968	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! The present income report is usually an opportunity to discuss some things in addition and beyond this point. With the appointment of a new President of the Court of Auditors, I think we should deal in a different way than here. I would just like to add that our group is interested in holding a public hearing. We believe that, not least on the basis of our initiative, there is now a procedure by which the office does not become void. One may regret that the order from a reasonable normal schedule is still slipping backwards, but we say at least once: It was successful that the chair did not remain unoccupied! This should not be left unmentioned, because at least one group here in the House has speculated very strongly with it, but this too is no longer an issue. The procedure should ultimately ensure that we get away a little from having here – perhaps not fractional, but at least called fractional – so-called candidates, and help us find a procedure that frees us a bit from what we believe it does not do anything, namely if the party political punch sticks to the individual candidate, the individual candidate. – So: Very good approaches, but if we want to debate this here in Parliament, I think we will have to look for a different framework for it; perhaps that is necessary. I would also like to point out that this income report mentions some companies that should in fact continue to enjoy our interest, such as the ÖIAG. Not that the managers would now deserve too much – on this one can be shared opinion, sometimes one has the impression – but let's say it as it is: The fact that Dr. Ditz's successors have to earn so much more is not immediately comprehensible, especially as it is more a sales agency than a real participation agency. This can be discussed all of this, but an essential point is the timely treatment of certain problems here in the house. You may have discovered it in the documents: III-77 of the supplements have been received, and this concerns the advisory agreements, including a Court of Auditors report. In this report we find, once again coming to the ÖIAG, an interplay of an endless chain of consultative contracts. The game goes like this: The ÖIAG Act has provided for the determination and nomination of supervisory councils in a certain manner. Blau-Schwarz did so in 2000, and one actually knew quite exactly who was to be put there. But so that the whole thing doesn't look so strange – that it doesn't “rule again” at all, but “rule old”; instead of party book economy Nepotism – we take, we have thought, a staff advisor, an entirely independent staff advisor. It's just stupid that he's in close contact with the Prinzhorn office. In any case, this staff advisor has not spent much money at all. And what do we find out? – Even the selection of this personal advisor, so to speak, the award of an advisory contract, has actually produced a complete list of shortcomings which has been criticised accordingly. In the management of this staff consultation, the Court of Auditors has once again taken a series of mistakes. We then discussed this in the Court of Auditors. The so criticised finance minister sat down, then at some point pulled out a note or even several – and they had to take it away – where it turned out that he had commissioned a new advisory agreement to disprove the criticism of the President of the Court of Auditors. That's incredible! So: three advisory contracts to get there that a party-political award of supervisory posts in which scams were cheated was authorized. And if one is caught by the so-called institution of this House, by the Court of Auditors, probably appreciated by all of us, then one goes here, gets into the treasure and takes out an opinion – currency against opinions. This is simply a system, it is a bad culture, it has nothing to do with a meaningful advisory activity, but it is the deliberate outpouring of means of taxation to legitimize own positions which, at the end of the day, cannot be held! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] But if it goes so far as to order opinions from the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance themselves to reject the criticism of the Court of Auditors, then the fun will really cease or, in order to be quoted by the President, it would be cheaper to abolish the Court of Auditors at the same time. I am therefore saying this because the President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors will do everything possible not to bring this directly in here, because it is only in connection with the ÖIAG and not in this report. I only mention this because we are putting a lot of money out for such things, in order to have management contracts that look as they are pictured here. And that can't be it. That is why we believe that it is necessary to separate strictly what was really needed – and on the contrary, we have nothing! – advisory services for a ministry are. However, it is necessary to first examine what is available in know-how and what may need to be purchased. The next step must be that, unlike always established, when you write out, the criteria are met and not completely overpriced prices are paid for consultants; then you wonder who is on the other side of the beneficiaries. So a truly successful call for proposals, which also deserves this name, and finally a resolution, in which one can also understand what the deliberations have presented, that is, half a proper documentation, and at some point perhaps an evaluation of this process. But we are miles away, for this we are all the closer to the tax payer's treasure. It's not a little bit about what's going on here. Only for the sample – only for the sample! – it's about €12 million. This has, however, affected only certain advisory agreements, a very small section, for administrative reform and for consulting on legislative papers. By the way, this is also a new train: It has always been strange Austrian culture that the laws were first and foremost written in the ministries, but at least there, in the meantime privatisation is progressing so far that entire legislative initiatives are outsourced, and there is also a lot of money paid for that because the officials in the house are obviously not politically opportunistic. However, I wanted to sum up saying that only a small section of these contracts has been examined, of course only six ministries, and not twelve, and lastly only a period of not quite two years – we still hold that who would have thought it, with more than four years of black and blue. So if I now calculate all of this with the corresponding factors, which I consider to be permissible, I come to an estimated €60 million for consulting contracts in this inefficient way. That's about 800 million in old schilling. And you'll feel that sometime. That's what you have to answer! There will certainly be more than half of your party policy actions thrown out of the window for nothing. So I see the context of the latest report with the report under discussion. At this point I would like to close by and only encourage one thing, because it really upsets me and because, as I mean, this has to be mentioned back and forth in plenary: We are very cooperative in the long-term committee planning, the budget, the financial committee – I know that, because I am responsible for that – we are making plans by Christmas this year. But what is the Court of Auditors? – We can only dream that anyone from the government parties is going down to think of an appointment for autumn. [[Abg. Hornek: Mr Colleague, that is wrong!]] We must fight for the meetings to be held in May and June, so that we can get the report items into the house so that we can finish them half-way. [[Abg. Neudeck: That's where the chairman sleeps!]] [[Call to the ÖVP and the Freeman: who is the Chairman?]] And that's why you stop any appointment before every election – and it's always elections –! Of course, I am the chairman, that is why I am saying this because this is constantly prevented in the presidential and in the preliminary discussions on it – you know the use of the house. [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] But if you want to provoke me here for a long time, then we'll hold on to 9. It is our proposal that we should start a meeting on June, so that the debate on the Court of Auditors' catch-up report can finally be continued. That's not what you're gonna do. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] You prevent the loading of information people, you don't want it, and that's why you prevent any appointment! [[Abg. Hornek: You are not credible!]] But from now on, we'll get used to this differently: We will address this in every presidential, and I will also tell you every time here in the house. Only one thing is not going to happen: that we would have made it almost so far that we did not even have a agenda item in June-Plenum in order to be worthy of the President here in the House. That's ridiculous, that's embarrassing! – This is your majority policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18064	The next speaker is Mr Neudeck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18082	Mr President! High house! As was expected, the Court of Auditors' report on average incomes and additional benefits for pensions in the federal public sector is not the highlight, but was used by most previous speakers – although Mr Kogler said he would not use it, of course he also used it – to think about the future President of the Court of Auditors and his appointment, and to “cook up” the old topics: I should like to make it clear why an independent President of the Court of Auditors, a President also independent of the Red and Greens, is important: because you, Mr Kogler, always read from the very objective reports of the Court of Auditors what you would like to see in it. [[Abg. May. Kogler: This is currently in the house, you prevent the report from being dealt with!]] But that's not it. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You prevent treatment!]] If you say from Red and Green that the nomination of the President of the Court of Auditors is the privilege of the opposition, only the opposition comes, then I wonder: Do you want to change order mode? The duration of the order is, in my opinion, undisputed, a long service period of 12 years. If you say that it is always the right of the opposition – but you say that constantly – then there are two criteria for me: [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler]] Either we will re-elect the President of the Court of Auditors after each change of government – which I do not like very well – or – and I would like this better – give red and green a note that they are in opposition over the next twelve years, then you can talk to me about your putting the President of the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. May. Worm: Very democratic!]] [[Abg. May. Gässner: Without notarial act, you won't experience it, gal?]] Austria could live very well with the regulation, I think, that the President of the Court of Auditors is red and green, but they are not in government over the next twelve years. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The report is purely statistically interesting, of course, and Mr Gahr has already referred to it. But it is always interesting to me that there are essential companies in Austria that refuse to disclose their salaries, with various reasons, data protection et cetera. The President of the Court of Auditors has also informed us that he is anonymised where he receives the benefits, i.e. for groups or for positions, but of course not for the reference person, and he should not disclose them, even if he had them. Ladies and gentlemen! If someone in the public sector refers to a reference to which he does not stand, which he cannot represent in the public, then there is only one solution for me: He should say to what kind of reference he is, and to which one should then reduce his relationship. Because one thing is clear: If I can't stand to my relationship and can't defend or explain him publicly, then I deserve too much. And if I see it from this base, then positions are overpaid in companies like the ORF et cetera, who do not disclose it, in my opinion. You drive around with the biggest service cars, they are also public, they are not locked in the garage, only the salaries you have to hide. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] – colleague, this is a message! There you have to think again about how you feel about it now, whether you really mean it the way it might be called in the minutes. But you're used to that: placardative, fast and content empty. Ladies and gentlemen! This report should in principle be taken into account. In my opinion, however, it is up to the Court of Auditors to provide the legislator with a means to ensure that companies that refuse to disclose their references must do so in the future. For one thing cannot be: that the Court of Auditors has no hand here, while newspapers are allowed to research, and can side by side show who deserves what is worth, because then the Court of Auditors will be toothless, and that must not happen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18177	I call Mr Gaßner. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18195	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr Neudeck, I agree with you that the reds and the greens should already sign a notarial act that they do not come to the government. [[Abg. Neudeck: Then I made a mistake!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Don’t go, don’t “come ”!]] That's right: Only with a notarial act would it be to prevent! You appreciate that perfectly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Many figures are available in this income report, and of course we Social Democrats also agree with the thanks to the officials, especially because I see considerable problems for the Court of Auditors: first of all, in the fact that they can only examine income for their plausibility, not material accuracy. What does that mean? What does “pussible income” mean? Or can I check if it's materially correct? That is, I think, relatively difficult. And secondly, it is not easy for officials to collect income when there are companies that simply refuse to disclose their data. Material accuracy must not be verified, only plausibility. Is it plausible, ladies and gentlemen, that board members, as is common for example with the Graz-Köflacher, earn 190 000 € in 2001 and 346 000 € in 2002 a year? Is that plausible, or is that material correct? And so you could continue with these strange income developments, which go up, which some in Austria certainly cannot imagine anymore. But what's striking is that: Whenever the income of the board goes up, the number of employees decreases. And that is not plausible for me, ladies and gentlemen. These are people who, in part, have no more work or have to get out without income. This fact also expresses the statistics that can be found in the report: For more than five years, 81 800 workers are less in the Court of Auditors' audited holdings – 81 800! Of course, fewer farms have been tested and so on and so on, but this is a remarkable number that is best given here. I already said that some companies do not disclose any data at all and prefer to be quoted in court. And there is a beautiful knowledge of the Constitutional Court concerning the ORF. That's what it says: The salary lists and therefore the salaries must be notified to the Court of Auditors, but it must not be said that a name is given for salary. So it's not possible to say a name for that. I think that's very strange. Are you ashamed? Don't you deserve these incomes? This is really to be questioned. This is justified – and this is really something strange, although I am not authorized to criticize the Constitutional Court – the fact that one cannot say a name for income, with the human rights convention. Ladies and gentlemen! Is it compatible with human rights that some 300,000 people in Austria are out of work? Is it compatible with human rights that there are more and more people in Austria who can no longer afford their lives because they deserve so little? And it is truly cynical when the Minister of Labour is standing here on the morning, saying: Social is who creates work! – Social is, ladies and gentlemen, who creates work and income to the extent that you can also live properly. Finally, be social!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18258	I call Mrs Lentsch. The watch is gladly set to 3 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18276	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! As far as I am aware, we are dealing with another income report today. This did not belong quite to the previous speakers of the opposition. I think it would be time to consider whether we have achieved what we really wanted with this income report. We wanted to ensure transparency. Any taxpayer should be able to see what managers in the ÖIAG deserve, the managers in the federal theatres or in special companies. This should also stop the suspicions that dreaming is paid here, which lies far above the salaries in the private sector. But unfortunately we had to find that we did not succeed, because many of the affected - it was already mentioned - have simply refused to disclose their references. And the Constitutional Court has found that we cannot force people to do so. Although the Court of Auditors may disclose the salaries, it may not mention the names. That's where you have to ask yourself what to do. If we only want to employ the Court of Auditors, we would have to examine quite different things. Not least because of this, this income report is very often misused for cheap polemics, including in the Committee. For example, what the EStAG has to do with the 2001 and 2002 income report is probably only known to the colleagues in the SPÖ. However, a positive thing can already be read from this report: The privatisation of public enterprises is progressing. More and more business areas of the federal government are privatized and thus left to the market. To this end, this report confirms the good work of this Federal Government. But the real objective of bringing transparency into public salaries was, I believe, missing. If you really want to, you have to take other ways. Finally, I should also like to thank the officials of the Court of Auditors and, of course, you, Mr President, for this work, because it is certainly a very difficult task to produce such reports.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18319	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Gabriela Moser. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18340	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! If you study many detailed, elaborated reports in the Court of Auditors and discuss them more often, you always encounter the same dilemma in three ways. The Court's investigations and audit reports are very precise. For example, the problem of infringements of the stencil regulation on the occasion of the present report and discussion is: The infringements on the other hand can be sued, highlighted and also discussed, only: It doesn't change a lot. That's the problem. It is purely good will of the competent ministry, the competent institution, the reports and criticism of the Court of Auditors to take something really as an incentive to change. And I think that this is where Parliament is asked. I think we are doing far too little of these concrete suggestions on account of the criticism of the Court of Auditors. There is a long list of suggestions that must finally be made legislatively, so that the Court of Auditors really is the instrument that it can and should be. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, at various meetings, I think that it has been a constructive criticism, but in the end it has remained, and there is a lack of the consequence here in the House. This was the case in the case of infringements of the stencil regulation in the ÖIAG companies. This is the case now in the case of reports concerning income levels. Certainly, there is the ruling of the Supreme Court, but the way in which contracts can be concluded in the future, under which framework conditions and that one might perhaps include in the Treaties that income can be published in terms of the Court of Auditors' powers of control, that is not to say, that it remains simple, is not up-to-date. A third example – as my colleague has already mentioned the current report – is the consultation agreements. Unfortunately, it is massively invading that people spend virtually twice as much public money: on the one hand, paying officials by recruiting highly qualified staff and also financing staff, which is actually also willing to work expertly, and on the other hand by making foreign awards, because they do not trust the officials or give any institutions money. I can give you an up-to-date example. Mr President, you will then also review it – or likely Her successor or her successor only in two, three years. We have now heard in the Building Committee – Mrs Fekter, this is interesting for you – there is the draft for a building management law. This draft did not come from the competent ministry, but there was another grant that cost €38 000, I think, plus €9 000 extra costs. The result of this award has been strongly criticised. You too, Mrs Fekter! And Mr. Minister says that we have still to forgive this again. [[Abg. Neudeck: The result has been criticized, not the award!]] In addition, the result is unqualified and does not benefit public administration. The draft must now be re-designed in the judicial area; we will discuss it tomorrow at Question Time. This is a concealment of public resources! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But you will still be allowed to research! That was a research work! Or are you opposed to research now?]] No, I'm not against research, but it's about a bill! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: This is ridiculous if you are constantly... scandalized!]] A bill is something other than a research! Excuse me, Mrs Colleague, you are a lawyer, you will probably be able to distinguish between research tasks and concrete legislative drafts. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: This was a research work done by the housing research company!]] And I don't need to forgive the drafting of laws outside. But we will still have the debate in the Committee on Justice. There is no question – we have already mentioned it in the Building Committee –: This is about concrete government projects and draft laws. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In conclusion: Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I think it is urgently necessary that the work of the Court of Auditors be directed directly and parallel to various parliamentary projects and that it is an accompanying control instrument. My experience is: Control two years later, the debate here in the house often years later when the report is available. This delay of time disavows and devalues the work of the Court of Auditors. I advocate - and this would be the task of the Convention you are running - that the Court of Auditors should be built up into a kind of accompanying control. I know that you have a different opinion, but show me a way where, with the help of the Court of Auditors, parliamentary activity can really make it possible to prevent things that are already on the wrong track. We have several cases where we know exactly that this is going wrong, but the Court of Auditors is not yet able to examine them. Please, help us with suggestions! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18429	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lap. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18447	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! In the debate on the report on incomes for 2001 and 2002 of the Court of Auditors, I would like to draw up a detailed report because my colleagues have already made it very intensive and detailed. It has been pointed out, for example, with the Gagen at the ÖIAG and in other areas. I would like to draw up an example of the fact that public-sector disseminations, such as the Kunsthistorisches Museum, seem to be a free letter for the managers, who then work in these companies. The income of the director of the Kunsthistorisches Museum amounted to €228 000 in 2001 and €238,200 in 2002. This is an increase that other workers in our country can only wish for. But for me, now is the crucial question: How does it look in 2003 and 2004? – You all know, there was a theft in the Art History Museum, which listed that there were security failures: A structure was not secured, an alarm system was attracted or too sensitive, and an exhibition in value of 50 million was placed under a window glass crash, so to speak, under a “cage lock”. Now I'm wondering, Where is the responsibility for the company, ladies and gentlemen?, and: Where does political responsibility remain? The Director shall exercise his responsibility in so far as he does detective work by travelling to Italy. He is aware of his responsibility so that he blames those people who have guarded this work of art, but from his side there is no responsibility at all, nor any description of what measures there are to make it better in the future. This is a crucial question for me, because the Art History Museum has treasures and works of art that represent a very valuable asset for all of Austria. In my opinion, a financial responsibility to demand a commercial responsibility and political responsibility would be very important. Because it cannot be that we are only talking about what incomes are looking for, but it must also be about what duties and rights the managers have and what tasks the state leaves to the managers when they take part in distributed companies. – Where does political responsibility remain?
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18486	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18505	Mr National Council President! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! If some are wrong, I would nevertheless like to devote myself in due course to the incomes of the ÖIAG Boards, which are also found in the income report. As you know, these are the incomes of the Board of Directors whose appointment has been unlawful and whose contracts are also criticised by the Court of Auditors. The research carried out by the Court of Auditors on the transactions in the ÖIAG shows what the government's economic policy means: the party's philosophy, the friendly economy and the waste of tax money. The senseless privatisation is also another example of economic incompetence. But there is only one concept, and that is to say, the implementation of party-political ideology, the main thing, it benefits our own and friends' privileges and fruits – which, of course, is to the detriment of taxpayers, who can already hurt you. On the one hand, the taxpayer is allowed to generate the public wealth – and the emphasis is on the word part “people” – that this government will then be squandered with the result that those who generate this popular assets will then become unemployed, and on the other hand, the taxpayer will have to pay for this non-social policy even more expensive. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups! You don't need to be surprised when the people's anger hits you, because it doesn't fit together at all, how you influence people's lives in all the details and what you live before yourself. The ÖIAG is an example of many for this. First, inhospitable supervisory boards are “deleted” by the board of directors for the money of the sinteur. Only for the part examined, there is more than €6 million, and if the expenditure for the others is added, then there is a multiple of them. – But no problem, it pays the taxpayer! Then it's about the staff search of the new organs. They're serving consultants. The overall process from the tender to the selection is non-standard and legal. Nor does the cheapest bidder get the award, because it's about the business of friends, and it doesn't matter if the one who gets the bonus is 30 percent more expensive. – But no problem, it pays the taxpayer! [[Abg. Neudeck: That was so until 1999!]] No, that's right now, my colleague. All of this then culminates in dubious management contracts, which then work out the supervisory councils thus determined together with the government: 700 000 € Gage, 14 times with grant 43 000 €. The ordinary citizen may live only 12 months, which may be 14 months. There's a finish that doesn't match. Although there are salary bonuses, there are stock options. – But no problem, the taxpayer will pay it! The same applies to the remunerations of the Supervisory Boards, where there are increases of up to 100 percent, and the fees rise by 2,000 percent. – But no problem, that’s the taxpayer’s case! I call on you, ladies and gentlemen of the government groups, to stop talking about saving and reducing privileges, which is pure hypocrisy! But you're making a big mistake, that you're selling the people for stupid. But you can be sure that at some point the time when the people are taking the trouble comes.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18544	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18563	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of my speech, I would like to thank Mr President-in-Office of the Council and his staff very much for this very elaborate report. However, I would also like to regret that we have only received this report now and can discuss it in Parliament, where it has already been sent to Parliament in December of the previous year. This shows, I believe, very clearly the way in which this federal government is doing, which repeatedly tries to push away the disastrous government policy and the outcome of its work and to prevent the discussion in the public. But it's not really how you see the results of the elections. The population knows exactly where this catastrophic policy is leading. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The key statement of this report, I believe, can be summarized very closely: The Board's incomes continue to rise in 2001 and 2002, while the number of apprenticeships is reduced over the same period, and that in the public economy. This can be very clear by means of examples. My colleague Gaßner has already mentioned the example of the Graz-Köflach railway and mining company, where there were two board members with an income of € 190 000 in 2001. In 2002, it was then only a board of directors, but it had an income of about €350. If one divides the € 190 000 into the two boards and assumes that one has earned €95 000, one must say: With the €350 000, a huge salary increase of €255 000 or 270 percent took place. At the same time, however, the number of apprentices has fallen from 9 to 5. There is a similar trend at the Verbund-Austria Hydro Power AG. You can see the same thing. Many such examples could still be listed. This is a very sad development. The Court of Auditors report very precisely shows this huge social gap for which the Federal Government is ultimately responsible. If the government does not in fact see the continuous decline of teaching facilities in close-to-state enterprises, how will it get under control in the private sector? The helplessness in this question has been explained by the Chancellor in all openness in the declaration of bankruptcy of his government policy, saying that by 2008 the situation on the teaching centre market will not change, that no relaxation is to be expected. This government, as we have already heard, is not as helpless as the manager's salaries, for example at the ÖIAG. There has been a determined handling of taxpayers' money. Simple employees do not have the opportunity to experience huge pay increases, but have real wage losses. There are pension cuts. All in all, I think you can say: More and less get more and more, and many get less and less!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18620	The next speaker is Mr Faul. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18638	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is very interesting – and I have made this effort – to compare the income of the board of directors in the close-to-state businesses with the income of the employees or the income of the workers, where the difference is even more serious, because only then will the moral image of these different enterprises become visible, and at the same time this moral image is a preamble for the moral image of the blue-black federal government, which is to be used only for the strong and for the great in our country. Let us, for example, compare air transport workers! There employees still earn 61 percent of the board's salary, which may also correspond to the quality of their training and responsibility, but the workers only reach 26 percent. The employees of money and credit still earn 40 percent compared to their boards, the workers only earn more than 30 percent. It's going to be bad in tourism: The employees still have 22 percent, but the workers only have more than 15 percent. It is similar in the electricity industry with 16 and 26 percent. Delegated, ladies and gentlemen, under the new government, are the salaries of the "windlords" at the ÖBB, while the employees of this company receive only 21 percent and the workers 17 percent of them. That makes the sheer completely disperse. The summits of the whole are probably the salaries of the board of directors in the huts. As a result, the proportions are 15 percent for employees and 9 percent for working people. That's where the salaries of the board of directors have gone far up. It is also interesting, ladies and gentlemen, that the board of directors in this business area have quadrupled from 2001 to 2002. [[Abg. Ellmauer: What is it like in BAWAG?]] In addition, the benefits of the public sector with regard to pensions are included. One can really say now: Without state control – but we suspect, perhaps even with state knowledge and will – this madness continues. There are multiple references, as my colleague Herb mentioned. There are reference schemes on a successful basis, as in the case of brokers. That means: Whoever gets worse gets more Gage, who throws more people out, he only fattens his salary so properly. That is the animation that we believe speaks against any fair conduct and against every reason! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In addition, as we can read out, unbridled and uncontrollable access to the fees at the close-to-state establishments comes into play. There are rental interest subsidies for the otherwise probably homeless board members who could not afford their homes with their millions of guests – all covered by the property representative and in reality covered by our Finance Minister Grasser. Well, you could say they deserve it because they are so good and because they are so difficult to find in Austria, but after this devastating performance around the VA Tech and around the Industrial Kovacs, no one will be among you, who can assure me that these directors are worth this money. For me, they were and remain diletantic distinguished managers, who have been raised over friendship rails in much too high positions in Austria. [[Abg. Grandruck: Unheard of!]] Just “FOPs” – I hope you know what I mean.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18697	The next speaker is Mrs Schönpass. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18716	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. High house! Every time we discuss a report from the Court of Auditors, it turns out that this government is not too expensive, especially if the profiters have a close relationship with ÖVP and FPÖ. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] To clarify: My group and I believe that managers in the public and semi-public sectors should be properly rewarded if they provide the conditions for this. However, we strongly criticise the fact that, as stated in the Court of Auditors' report, some managers were apparently ‘golded’ after their predecessors were made for expensive money in current contracts. [[Abg. Schöls: How is it with Mr. Streicher?]] How can it be justified, for example, that according to “standard” of 14. August 2003 the newly appointed ÖIAG board member Peter Michaelis with all Drum and Dran comes to €680 000 annual salary?- Oh, my God! This is an incredible 9 375 000 S. With this he has twice as much as his predecessor Rudolf Streicher. [[Abg. Hornek speaks to colleagues and laughs.]] – Unfortunately, this is not a laugh, Mr Hornek! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] Does Michaelis actually bring twice as much? – The government is indeed pouring out a filling horn. But not so with the population: The workers, unemployed people and pensioners have completely opposite experiences. Reductions and acquisitions are the foreign exchange for them. In my view, in the context of the Court of Auditors' report, it should be pointed out that in twelve companies the board of directors deserved more than the Federal Chancellor. If this happens in a private enterprise, policy has no influence on it. In conclusion, two figures to show the relation to the already discussed size and in particular to show the active persons in the government how the real situation of the people is: The average gross annual income of a worker in 2001 was €21 070 and that of a worker was €10 026. The SPÖ does not take note of this Court of Auditors report, for which I thank Mr President-in-Office of the Council and his staff for its excellent work.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18774	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Auditors to take note of this report III-67 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – The request was accepted by the majority. 6. Point Report of the Equal Treatment Committee on the Government Template (285 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Federal Equal Treatment Act (498 d.b.) 7. Point Report of the Equal Treatment Committee on the Government Template (307 e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends a Federal Law on Equal Treatment (GlBG) and amends the Federal Law on Equal Treatment for Women and Men in Working Life (Equal Treatment Act) (499 d.b.) 8. Point Report and application of the Equal Treatment Committee on the draft Constitutional Law establishing a Federal Constitutional Law on the Freedom of Ministry of Equal Treatment of the Institutions and a Federal Constitutional Law on the Freedom of Law (500 d.b.) 9. Point Report by the Committee on Human Rights on Amendment No 27/A (E) by Mr Mag. Terezija Stoisits, colleagues on the decision of an Austrian anti-discrimination law (501 d.b.) 10. Point Report by the Committee on Human Rights on amendment 146/A by Mr Mag. Terezija Stoisits, ladies and gentlemen concerning an anti-discrimination law (502 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18860	We now come to points 6 to 10 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mrs Magistrate. Prammer with a desired speaking time of 6 minutes. – You are speaking, Mrs Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18884	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Equal treatment laws should be substantially amended. While we have so far been aware of equal treatment laws involving men and women, the population should now be greatly extended. What's this about? - 1998 was the United Nations Year of Human Rights. Austria then referred to this year of human rights by giving the Ludwig-Boltzmann Institute an order to develop an anti-discrimination law, which was finally concluded in 2000. In 1998, the European Union also referred to this year of human rights and, in the Treaty of Amsterdam, substantially expanded the area concerned, which is to be protected, also within the framework of the rights of the European Union. What followed? – A number of directives, for example the 2000 Anti-racism Directive. Implementation period for each Member State: 19. ==References== That is, Austria is already a year old. Further example: The Anti-Discrimination Directive, also published in 2000. ==References== The deadline for implementation expired on December 2003. Austria is also juicy. Finally, the Equality Directive for women and men has also been modernised. There is a deadline for implementation, October 2005. ==References== November 2003 – that is also relatively long ago – then there was a Council of Ministers decision on two laws, which were then transmitted to Parliament, where the government parties have said that this is the implementation of these directives. Ladies and gentlemen! For a long time, there was a fundamental consensus in Austria that Austria is really a show country with regard to gender equality. I remind you: We have a law on equal treatment in Austria, which was created in 1979. In Austria, we have a law on equal treatment for the public service of 1993. These are all the measures that have been put in place long before Austria's accession to the European Union and before the corresponding directives. Ladies and gentlemen! Regrettably, this basic consensus that we are a show country has been diverted by this legislative matter, which is under discussion today. What is our criticism, or what are our demands? . The European Union has considered itself very much when it did not create a directive to eliminate all these discriminations, but three directives. Our demand was: If we also create three laws, we have clear responsibilities and clear demarcations, and the people who should feel affected are also familiar with them! That was also our negotiating position. That is how we went into the negotiations with the EIA. However, the ÖVP or the government parties have meant that they do not want to do so, they want to deal with everything in a law. That is what we have finally responded to, even though I must say: It has not become a law, the disabled will be given a separate law, and the national and local authorities must continue to regulate this. This mixed mesh has now created the problem that suddenly also a Hierarchization has arisen in these laws. That is, in the same law, people are protected differently. Let me give you an example: If Harry Belafonte came to Austria today and went to a local, he would no longer have to stand outside the door, and the local owner could not say no if he wanted to enter this place, while Ariel Musiciant or, for example, a Catholic priest could very well be banned – and that without consequence. This is a clear hierarchy, and against that we speak out! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The guidelines provide for non-wisdom ombudsmen, and these non-wisdom ombudsmen want you to decide now simply by law. We believe that this is a smooth breach of the constitution. It is a pity that the negotiations did not go so far as to establish consensus with the opposition parties. After several rounds of negotiations with the ÖVP, we meant: Can we not really agree to at least implement the directives? Let us implement the directives so that the Austrian people can assume that the EU standards also apply to Austria! – This has not succeeded until the end. In other words, the negotiations have focused precisely on: It was a ringing for directive implementation, to see more it has not gone. After we have stood before the targets and the directives are not implemented in our opinion, we will not give our consent to these laws either. I recognise the efforts made by the opposition parties – in person by Mrs Scheucher and also by Mrs Achleitner; please excuse me: the government parties logically – that they have really tried to reach a consensus here; Mr Ellmauer too was very often involved. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: The Government Parties – still!]] I just found that there were apparently overwhelming forces behind it; it was always tried to stop saying and stop. I don't have the impression that you had a big room for negotiation. I am pleased that, although it did not reach the goal, there was a positive development. We will not stop working in the future to ensure that the directives are actually implemented, second, a real gender equality law and thirdly, an anti-racism and anti-discrimination law worthy of this name. Ladies and gentlemen! Shame – we would almost have been at the goal! I very much regret that we have to refuse approval here today.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18935	The next speaker to speak is Mrs Mag. Scheucher-Pichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18953	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Prammer, I also see it this way: It was very constructive discussions for us on the part of the government groups, which were certainly not in vain. We didn't leave consensus. We were ready for a consensus. We have really tried to do our best, and we have taken many steps in your direction. I regret that this has not been enough, but it may have contributed to the fact that we have found a better overall discussion climate. That's why it wasn't for nothing. I would like to thank all those who took part in the meetings: the competent ministers, the State Secretary, the officials and staff of the Ministries who have supported us professionally, and also the Members of the political groups. We fully implement the EU Directives with the draft legislation presented. We are even doing more than the EU says, Mrs Prammer! And in the end we also build on the good and successful work of the equal treatment prosecution and commission. I am all the less aware of the fact that you do not agree with a bill that brings further improvements, it was also you, as the competent Minister of Women and your group, who, since 1979, have played a crucial role in helping us to build on something, not at the zero point in Austria, but that we are at a high level. And that's our goal: We want to continue the good, successful work in the field of equal treatment and anti-discrimination in Austria. Why don't you go this way with us? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have fulfilled your wish to restructure the law, and we have made our own gender sector, a second part that regulates the new levels of discrimination outside the labour market, e.g. discrimination based on ethnicity. That's what it was. Your wish – we did it. I recognize that you have come to understand the original demand to make your own anti-discrimination law right now that you have distanced yourself from it, unlike the Greens, and have been ready for a consensus here. I think, however, that we can build on good resources and good experiences here, can use synergies and can ultimately achieve positive results. We are doing exactly what is under review in Vienna at the moment. The EU Directives will also be implemented. That's enough? You're obviously not enough here in the league. We have taken steps towards consensus in a number of areas, and we have also incorporated the proposals in our two amendments, which we have decided on in the Committee – unfortunately also without the votes of the opposition. Although we have already known that you do not agree, we have included these negotiating results and we stand by them. I would also like to thank Mr Achleitner. We're on it! For example, the Association of Appeals for the Support of Discrimination Victims ensured the participation of NGOs in judicial proceedings in the form of secondary intervention. - Just one point. The transfer of evidence to the defendant was built in. – A point that you have called for, which leads to an intensification. Furthermore, the obligation to state reasons in case of deviations from an opinion of the Equal Treatment Commission; the anonymous publication of opinions on a homepage. – That was also your request and your wish. In the case of damages, we have no upper limit, but only lower limits, and the determination to the top is now in judicial discretion – I trust that our Austrian judges; this too has been a very important requirement – and in the case of ascent discrimination, the remuneration difference has been increased from one month to three months. We have also increased the time limits from six months to one year in the exercise of claims, e.g. from sexual and gender harassment. I admit, that was very important to me too. A requirement was also the personal equipment. Additional staff is provided here. They wanted to add five academics. I think it is a fair offer, and we have also included this in the presentation, that after a one-year evaluation phase, we look at and then react to the personnel equipment, both in relation to the expenses of the courts as well as in the equal treatment prosecution and equal treatment commission. Here, too, we were conversant, and I think it's a normal process that you don't write posts into the law, but look at: What are the priorities? And: Where are the additional resources necessary after an evaluation phase? I hope that we will come to a consensus on exemption, Mrs Prammer. You still have a chance. We have submitted an application, and we will also request that Article 1 should be voting separately from Article 2, which includes the exemption of the legal guardians, so that you have the opportunity to agree here at least to the exemption of the equal treatment prosecution. We want this freedom of guidance to exist. Do you want Minister to give instructions? But I also say that there have never been any problems here. The Constitutional Service also considers, in the case of the Court of Justice, that it is an expert and expert activity and that such activities cannot, of course, be made subject to technical instructions. I urge you once again to take advantage of the opportunity to at least agree to the exemption of the equal treatment prosecution. [[Abg. May. Prammer: You only need to agree to our amendments!]] I appeal to you – also in the sense of constructive cooperation. Finally, I would like to thank all those who have contributed to the fact that we have a very good legislative framework for decision-making with this bill and will thus ensure further improvements towards equal treatment and also towards anti-discrimination in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19004	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19022	Dobar vecer! Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am now referring to Mrs Scheucher's statement, which, replicating with Mr Prammer, said that she, Scheucher, was pleased that the SPÖ had distanced herself from her intention to decide immediately an anti-discrimination law. That might sound misunderstanding now, as if the SPÖ did not want any anti-discrimination law. To this end, I would like to make it clear: The SPÖ, of course, wants an anti-discrimination law – and she wanted to do so at the time when SPÖ and ÖVP were still in the government together and, so to speak, only I had the opposition role of the two ladies. At that time – and I stress this – we had a fellow-championer in the then Minister Prammer. “We, i.e. those non-governmental organisations or representatives of Austrian civil society, have had an anti-discrimination law prepared in the “Year of Human Rights” 1998 – which has been mentioned – with tax money. So 1998 was that! My son is now seven years old; at that time he was a year old; now he is a popular student. You can imagine how long it has been working on what Mrs Scheucher said: not an anti-discrimination law right now! I have a very historical awareness about this, and I have to tell you: Even this time, until the change of government came in 2000, was not to compare with what we are faced with today, even in what the EU tells us in this regard, and as you know, EU directives are always minimum standards. So not that I might misunderstand here, I would think the EU was so good, but: The EU always norms minimum standards, and Austria is – and there are indeed, ladies and gentlemen! – the EU with its minimum standards in some things even ahead. For example, gender equality policy – women. There is – and I say so to speak as oppositional – in Austria a story that is associated with names, which one can now call calmly: Donal, Konrad, Prammer. And this policy, also considered in Europe, was worth seeing if we already want to compare it. So, and then the year 2000 when the so-called anti-racism directive went through in the EU – and at that time, the Black and Blue Federal Government was not entirely indifferent to the speed of the directive's adoption, and I repeat that this directive standardized minimum standards. That was in 2000, and Austria has stopped the government we have, and I can only say the same to this one: We must choose this government as soon as possible; there is no other solution! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The history of the Anti-Discrimination Act and the negotiations on it have shown that this would be the best. Thank you and the roses you are now scattering from the government parties of the opposition – I have, of course, felt like a green person – by saying: We wanted this together!: Yeah, we wanted to, and you didn't! [[Abg. Steibl: It is also a difference between want and make!]] So it was to summarize this briefly, with regard to anti-discrimination and anti-racism work! That's the truth! And in Parliament we should not lie, nor, of course, outside of Parliament. That's why this has to be said here. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] As, ladies and gentlemen, Barbara Prammer here mentioned this incident with Harry Belafonte in Linz: Yesterday, like some others, I saw this wonderful concert in front of Schönbrunn Castle in the evening. And I have to tell you: The most wonderful sight for me was Bobby Mc Ferrin. Bobby Mc Ferrin is not only a beautiful man, but he's also black. I've been thinking quietly to myself yesterday: ==References====External links== By July, when the new anti-discrimination law enters into force, it is still moving in the unprotected room. And it could happen to him what Harry Belafonte did at the time in Linz, but I admit – and the government too must implement minimum standards of the EU – although some instruments are intended for such, so to speak, one-dimensional cases of discrimination, however: With an anti-discrimination law in the sense of what Austrian civil society has demanded for many years, this result – even though it may look so thick and fat – really has nothing to do! [[the speaker shall keep written documents up to date]] [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] That was the one comment – and now unfortunately the lamp shines here at the speaker's desk again; but it's still enough time. The second story, which I believe is particularly remarkable, is not the result of this law: this is the way this federal government deals with non-governmental organisations. Dialogue with civil society, something that is contained in the EU directives, what we should do, what we cannot do: This government doesn't care about it! Zero! [[Abg. Ellmauer: Mrs Colleague, you say these things against better knowledge!]] The ladies who have drawn up these laws in the area of Mr Bartenstein have had a very clear and precise task, namely to present the absolute minimum minimum minimum standards, which is only somehow necessary, legalistically to the Federal Government and thus to Parliament, precisely what we now commonly call'soft-law'. – However, what would be equally necessary to put in place this social dialogue, accompanying measures that are not contained in a law on equal treatment, is nowhere at all to be said! Like the devil, the water of the holy water, this federal government alone is afraid of the terminology “anti-racism” or “anti-discrimination”! This law still means as it was then decided, “Federal Law on Equal Treatment for Men and Women ”! You have not even found the courage of ÖVP and FPÖ to address what is also contained in this law: certain anti-discrimination provisions, although still gentle, concerning “race” – under quotation marks –, that is, ethnic origin, as well as religious origin, age, where the gender aspect is concerned. But that's just one aspect of it; only one. This is also the question of people with disabilities! If an Austrian citizen tries to find the directive in the Austrian federal laws or on the Internet: You won't find that! And that is really not to be found! This is so well hidden that no one will ever know what instruments there are in this respect, even if they are so fragile! And that's what I'm putting before you most of all! It is this melancholy, this courage, that what is actually a European trend, what the EU has set as a trend in 2000 with its directive, is such a thing of minimal importance in us! There is not even a word for that to express! The expression “minimum” is still far too large in relation to this “implementation ”! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] At the same time, this result of mediocre and merciless politics, which does not create structures to combat racism, homophobia and other prejudices and discriminations, is capable of weakening the legitimate concern, namely the structures for equal treatment for men and women, by imposing all that on the equal treatment attorneyship, but only of providing it with minimal additional structures, so that it can never live up to this mission that it had in the past – and will have more in the future! These are the accusations to you, Mrs Scheucher, that you were the ÖVP negotiator! In fact, this was the purest sham negotiations, and I am really sorry about every half hour I have spent there because even what you have presented after these negotiations with the opposition was only half-heartedly intervened, so that it did not take into account exactly the aspect that it should actually take into account, namely the pressure from the victim of discrimination, the financial risk in the event of complaints! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Scheucher]] That's why: Select this government! A new one – and also a real anti-discrimination law!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19152	Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19170	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mrs Stoisits, your commitment and your wishes in all honours! We are, however, concerned with the implementation of this programme. Anti-discrimination policy is not about the name, but it is simply the content that has been implemented in these laws! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lunacek.]] I would like to point out quite clearly that it was you who unfortunately only had time to negotiate with us once, and we have been sitting with Mr Prammer of the SPÖ much more often. I hope it can also confirm that good and objective negotiations have taken place. Unfortunately, no agreement was reached, but it was negotiated well and with a lot of expertise. Ladies and gentlemen! The aim of the government parties was to ensure that the EU Anti-Discrimination Directives are best implemented and correctly implemented, and I think these directives have been implemented well and sufficiently. Especially when Mrs Prammer and Mrs Stoisits point out that there has been a deterioration in equal treatment, they are really passing by reality! In fact, it is very likely that there are improvements to the existing equal treatment law, improvements in the equal treatment offer, especially for women. – I just mention a few examples here. For example, I see the discrimination status of harassment as a great opportunity in the fight against bullying, because, unfortunately, this case is becoming more and more frequent and, of course, much better known. Unequal treatment must also hurt, and I therefore think it is very good that damage limits are set as lower limits, that genuinely independent courts decide on them in individual cases, and that there are no fixed limits or limits of politicians, because the courts actually decide according to the cases in question. I am sorry that the opposition could not go along with this, because the courts can really put the claims for damages in place depending on the case in question. The introduction of the ban on discrimination is also, as I believe, a good rule. It is positive that those who have made complaints or even have been against discrimination must not be released, cancelled and not disadvantaged. The same applies not only to the complainant himself, but also to the witnesses and to the informants. Ladies and gentlemen! The law applies not only in the field of gender, but has also been extended to the issue of equal treatment with regard to ethnic origin and membership, religion and belief, age and sexual discrimination, in particular with regard to the field of work. Social protection has been extended to include ethnicity and ethnicity. The different levels of protection in this respect were very often created by the opposition parties and also referred to as unconstitutional. But now no one less than the Federal Constitutional Service has decreed that discrimination on the grounds of ethnicity is quite simply different and separate, because it has different effects, different areas of life, and other social policy backgrounds exist. It has been mentioned briefly today, but I would also like to talk about it, and it is so important to me because the SPÖ measures by two measures. Especially in the Vienna state law there was no extension of the level of protection. They put one at a time as much as the government parties in the league. the EU Anti-Discrimination Directives. In view of that, I believe that you really have to consider what you want! You cannot, on the one hand, demand something from the government and, on the other hand, measure with different measures yourself in a country in which you are in the government and have the absolute majority! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The fact that the correct implementation was a major concern for us has proved this to be true the many negotiations. We did not just negotiate – and we did not seem to have negotiated, Mrs Stoisits! – but many concerns have been taken into account and many suggestions have really been incorporated into the government template. At this point I would like to express my special thanks to the members of the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs, especially Mrs. Sectionschefin Dr. Szymanski and Mrs. Dr. Ritzberger-Moser, who, with a great deal of feeling and great commitment, tried to coordinate the wishes of the opposition with the plans of the government parties! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] There is also a good solution: I would like to stress the participation of NGOs in the judicial process, particularly in the special position of secondary interveners, the new division of the bill, which highlights a particular equality between men and women, and the modification of the burden of proof. Even if the opposition doesn't want to believe: The transfer is clearly in favour of the applicant, and it is clear from the linguistic wording that the defendant is obliged to provide evidence. Ladies and gentlemen! It is also good that the equal treatment prosecutions are used as independent bodies. The advantage is that there is an existing involvement and that there is also great experience there. However, it is also clear to us – and this was also included in an amendment – that within one year the additional effort caused by the processing of the State of Discrimination must be observed that the personnel equipment must be evaluated and carefully monitored so that such work can also be carried out well and with sufficient staff. A prerequisite for the implementation of the Directive and also for the successful work of the equal treatment prosecutors is the exemption from the directive. I appeal in particular to the SPÖ, because it is necessary for a constitutional change and therefore a two-thirds majority. Mrs Prammer, it really depends on you and your group whether there is a possibility of the equal treatment prosecutions being set free!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19276	Mr Bartenstein, Federal Minister, spoke from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19295	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In all the necessary short for submission of equal treatment law in its various forms. I am pleased that Mrs. Frauenminister and also Mr. State Secretary at the Federal Chancellor's Office are here next to me sitting on the government bank. Madam President and President-in-Office of the Council, I would also like to thank you and your group for the negotiations that have been conducted. I have been informed by my staff that it was not only intensive but also good rounds of negotiations and that the government template has been greatly improved. Of course, I assume that the government template was also a good one and, above all, was in line with the EU directives. We may have different opinions, but allow me to stay with my opinion once for tonight. We'll be able to see you tomorrow. For example, I have always given up, for example, to Mrs Scheucher, in fulfilling his wishes. I believe that the directive is not only fulfilled but overcrowded. There has been a lot more done, but despite all the concerns about the extent to which the labour market is being burdened here, I also feel that this is responsible and feasible. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If we hear that the representative of the Green Group could not always be present in these negotiations, then I think it is not fair to make the two really negotiating participants, namely the two government groups on the one hand and the SPÖ Group on the other, of third, in many cases not present, here the accusation of sham negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen! Three laws would have been possible, but I mean that a flood of law is not really what we want. I have already commented on this in the Committee: In any case, a law provides certain advantages for discriminated people in this country, namely to have a single point of contact. This makes it possible to better cover multiple discriminations – we have addressed the example of the Roma woman. It is even more difficult with today's apparently just a simple legal decision to refer to the equal treatment attorneyship. We have recently heard from the representative of the Constitutional Service in the Committee, Mr. Ministerial Councillor Dr. Dossi, that it is quite possible, possible and perhaps even likely that a simple legal independence of the equal treatment attorneyship is sufficient, because the competences which it carries out go into the vicinity of an expert or expert activity and thus cannot be made subject to a technical instruction. But even Dr. Dossi has formulated that some talk about the possibility of a constitutional solution, but it is not secured. Mrs Prammer, here is a critical remark: It is up to you and your group to ensure this constitutionally. [[Abg. May. Prammer: No! It's up to you!]] We have a good solution on the table from my point of view, but the better solution depends on you! You know that there have been joint negotiating results with you on many points. The fact that one does not always get everything to a hundred percent in the negotiations, I see that, and you certainly do. So give your equal treatment heart another back, and agree with the necessary constitutional provision! It's better with her, but it doesn't work. We have continued with regard to the government template in terms of the conversion of evidence, especially in the case of semantics. In terms of content, I mean, it's always been given. We have resolved the right of secondary intervention within the meaning of the NGOs, and I am grateful for the positive efforts of the government groups by Mrs Prammer. Mrs Stoisits, you are trying to get the image of the devil who is shy of the water of consecration. That seems to me to go a little too far! Let me put it quite simply with my German words: Why should I call a law anti-discrimination law if I can call it equal treatment law in German? Both mean the same. One is Latin, the other is German, so we take the German word. That should not be so far away from your view, and I believe that this is above all no point for a political debate. We know that EU directives are minimum standards, but it makes sense to try to act uniformly in a common market. It's very interesting by the way: I have looked at something with my employees, which I also thank for the excellent work in this context. It is not always easy to balance interests, and this goes from the section desk to the employees in my cabinet. We have once again looked at how it looks in Germany, where the conditions are not quite similar and where your party friends form the government: And see: Nothing's on the table! There was a draft, and there were very critical words according to the motto of Mr Schröder, his sign Federal Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany: We don't need that, it's too bureaucratic, we don't want it and we don't do it! – There was a draft that was then withdrawn. We go far beyond European standards in this regard, if we already implement the directives in Austria. From my point of view, this could have happened a few months earlier, but for which reasons it has always been very late for committee meetings. We don't want to do this any more. Write to your colleagues and friends in the two German government groups – let them continue! We are already at least a few steps and months ahead of them. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is a round and good thing in the sense of more equal treatment and less discrimination. Quite clearly, it is not necessary to regulate different things at the same time, as the EU already says in its directives. There is no equal and equal value for every State of discrimination. We have also implemented that. I do not want to repeat this comparison here, which has been filled with names by you, because I do not want to mention the world-famous artist or the very important position in Vienna. However, this goes back to the EU directive, and we did so. That makes sense, too. We have been a member of the European Union for almost ten years. Thank you, Mr President, for granting the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19333	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Posch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19352	Mr President. High house! I have to say from the point of view of the debates of recent years: They were in fact consistent with the presentation and implementation of the three EU Directives. They never wanted anything. Other! They really wanted to make a novel to the law on equal treatment. We have always rejected this procedure. We always wanted our own anti-discrimination law and anti-racism law. Above all, we have always called for a non-profit ombudsman's office, which, for example, is re-trained by the public prosecutor's office or established at the public prosecutor's office and is subject to Parliament's responsibility or responsibility. This anti-discrimination law has a long history. It dates back to 1998, the year of human rights. There have been numerous discussions. The Bruno Kreisky Human Rights Prize has been awarded the initiators of this initiative “Workplace Anti-Discrimination Law”. There have been numerous initiatives such as Helping Hands, SOS Mitmensch, Initiative Self-determined Life, Initiative Minorities, Ludwig-Boltzmann-Institute, amnesty international, the Homosexual Initiative Vienna and many others. It was always clear to us: The regulation in the Equal Treatment Act is not adequate access, since this is responsible for gender difference. The purpose and objective was therefore to adopt a comprehensive anti-discrimination law, e.g. according to the model of the British Race Relations Act or the Dutch proposals or the Swedish model. In spite of some advantages, there are also some weaknesses in this law, such as the burden of proof: The directive provides that it is up to the defendant to prove that he has not discriminated against him. On the other hand, the draft ministry is significantly weakened. However, it must be borne in mind that most victims of discrimination are financially inferior and pose an increased risk of procedure and costs. Secondly, to the association action you have referred to. While § 62 of the new equal treatment law under the title of the secondary intervention provides for the possibility for a person concerned to request an association of action as a secondary intervener in a dispute in order to enforce his interests. However, this association currently belongs only to the three associations Zara, Bizeps and HOSI. In addition, this is not the same as an association clause in which internationally proven institutions can contest procedures to combat discrimination for victims. That's something else in principle. There is also a lack of the arrangements for dialogue with NGOs, and there is no last but not least also a Ombudsman or an ombudsman against discrimination, which is democratically legitimate and is ordered by Parliament, deals with the structural problems, drafts general recommendations and carries out intensive public work, such as in Sweden, where there is an ombudsman's own anti-ethnic discrimination, which is called for a term of six years, has a business office with 15 employees and a wealth of skills and opportunities. It is obvious that you have regulated the various subjects for synergies and costs in this one law and therefore you have only adapted the equal treatment commission accordingly. The emergence of a positive awareness and discussion process on anti-discrimination will not trigger this, however, in our view. This is evidenced by the creation of four classes of discrimination victims and four different levels of protection, namely for the disabled, ethnically discriminated against, women and such because of sexual orientation and religion. Measures on active equality between women and men in the working world are fundamentally different from measures to combat discrimination. In addition, the Equal Treatment Commission is by no means financially and humanly equipped to carry out the new tasks and is already chronically overburdened. As far as the survey on the Anti-Discrimination Act is concerned, one has to ask why it took place at all, because almost all experts have confirmed that the construction with the Equal Treatment Commission and the three Senates is not a target; one of the experts has even spoken of ‘legislative ease’. The fact that the federal states were very well able to create their own law shows the Upper Austrian and the Styrian example, where there is their own anti-discrimination body, where there are own regulations for social dialogue and where there are also special measures for workers with disabilities. You from the government parties, I believe, have missed a great opportunity with this novel. That's unfortunate. When it comes to animal welfare, there has certainly been a four-party arrangement – in the case of human protection, this is obviously not possible in Austria. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think that's important. If animal welfare is important to you, you should also be concerned about the protection of human beings. It should not be that in Austria it is better to be a manger than a black African.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19453	The motion for a resolution, which has just been read, has been tabled by the honourable Member. Prammer, Mag. Posch, comrades and comrades are sufficiently supported and are therefore involved in the negotiations. This application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19538	The next speaker was Mr Ellmauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19557	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Questions of human rights, anti-discrimination and equal treatment are not appropriate to beat down party-political small money, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Binder.]] Equal treatment is and was, of course, a major concern of the ÖVP. All the accusations and impressions that might arise in the pursuit of this oppositional plot, especially the Greens, that we are against equal treatment, even anti-discrimination, are completely absurd! So I can hold back the facts from this targeted oppositional bad-making: An Austrian law on equal treatment was adopted in 1979. In the following years, the legislator created a functioning tool, an ombudsman, the so-called equal treatment attorneyship to enforce the claims of discriminated women and men. A point of contact for victims of discrimination has been set up. Since 1979, there has also been an equal treatment commission, which allows victims of discrimination to be examined in advance of jurisdiction as to whether discrimination exists. Our country is thus looking back on a long and successful tradition of equal treatment, which is continued with the equal treatment law to be adopted today. With this draft, we have managed in a good way to involve new prohibitions of discrimination in the proven and experienced equal treatment institutions. Thus, the equal treatment offer is extended to the reasons of ethnicity, religion or belief, age or sexual discrimination. We have therefore fully transposed the EU anti-discrimination directives. This successful implementation of the EU Anti-Discrimination Directives is also not a bad thing about the opposition. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Sad: That's where the applause is missing now!]] On the pretext of ‘fifth-negotiations’: Many demands were made from the opposition. Of course, we also take these demands seriously. So my colleague Scheucher and I have tried to reach agreement in four-party talks. Of the eleven demands made by the SPÖ, seven have been regarded as quite positive and implemented, two have been partially implemented, and two have shown themselves ready to talk. Nevertheless, the SPÖ has never signaled approval, but you have always said: Nevertheless, we cannot agree! Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition: What do you want? Are you actually reaching? I doubt that you are really concerned about the equal treatment of people in our country. Don't you try to beat party-political change? I ask you now, my dear friends. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, and in particular Mrs Prammer: Why are you opposed to the exemption of the legal guardians? Why Vote With your demand you are so vehemently opposed to improving legal certainty in Austria? Why are you opposed to strengthening the rights of workers in our country? – That’s what it’s going to be You have to explain to our fellow citizens. This equal treatment law, based on our good and long experience in the field of equal treatment, implements a holistic approach to strengthening equal treatment and protecting against discrimination. This full implementation of the EU Directive promises equal treatment in all areas of life. Yeah, it's true: The request for an anti-discrimination law submitted by Members of the Greens contains important points in many areas, but I am still convinced that a new law on equal treatment can and will make the aspects of anti-discrimination, equal treatment and human rights more comprehensive and, above all, more clear. The Greens' request is also outdated, as the conditions for this change have been changed by the relevant EU directives. Ladies and gentlemen, We want solutions that are implemented in practice, practical laws for the benefit of our citizens. This is a major concern to me, as a human rights spokesman of the EIA, and this is achieved in a wide range of areas by means of the present equal treatment law.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19602	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Weinzinger to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19621	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! If I listen to Parliament's Ell Wall in this way, I have the impression that not even the self-conspiracy rhetoric, which one would not have made for a great law and what one would not have done for a complete implementation of the directives. You know that's not true! I know you're hard to admit now, but in the silent room – I'm convinced – your speech would be different. [[Abg. Murauer: (in the direction of Abg. In other words, you're lying right!]] The fact is: You have not fully transposed the directives! What I can confirm is: There were no negotiations, there were not even sham negotiations, there were four-party talks, whose description by colleague Scheucher makes me a little inconspicuous, whether I should react with arrogance or admiration, that one can conjure up constructive conversations with such an unbroken fronatur, where I felt it was a bit like in the film “And daily the Murmeltier greets!” Let's get together. The opposition says: This law is not enforceable, it is not constitutional, it lacks a uniform concept of discrimination. – Government negotiators say: Aha, um, yeah, right, you could actually talk about it; we'll meet again; we'll probe once as it looks! – We come back together again, get something presented that has not changed. We say again: There is no uniform protection of discrimination. – The government says: Oh, we understood that differently! Oh, that's what you meant? Aha! We'll think about that! And so on. There was no real negotiation. You can admit that openly without being... – Na go’n S’: [[Deputies Dr. Brinek and Dr. Fekter: That's not true!]] You were there, I was there! They were also present at the dates where the information was then provided: A uniform concept of discrimination is not possible. We stick to the law as we had presented it in the first minute. – Whether you have made up a few more detail points with the SPÖ, has not played a role in the four-party talks. The fact is that we have a law whose title has the term “equal treatment for men and women”, although it regulates equal treatment, namely anti-discrimination, for all possible other areas. And: In this equal treatment law, inequality is defined by defining different categories of discrimination protection. You must explain this to any normal mortal and also to the constitutional jurists, how to regulate inequality in a law on equal treatment! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. May. Prammer.]] Let us take an example: A person X goes to hospital, lands on intensive care medicine, notes that she was treated worse there than the person Y, and can now, if it happened to be Harry Belafonte, complain about racial or ethnic discrimination. If it was a woman, she had bad luck – unless it was the “Roma-Women” that Minister Bartenstein so gladly tried in the committees, because it could complain again because of ethnicity. If it was an old or a homosexual person, he/she was wrong again: There is also no provision for the protection of discrimination for these people. So it's colorfully mixed! In reality, one would have to set up one's own advisory offices in order to properly advise people who might be able to carry out different acts, which category of belonging to which group they enjoy the best protection of discrimination and, therefore, what they can and cannot sue. Or: A person A who wants to enter a local and is prevented from doing so. – Harry Belafonte is not, because from 1. It must not be prevented or sued by July. If it is someone who wears a Sikh-Turban, he may be kept outside because of the Sikh-Turban; if it is a man of Indian descent, however, he cannot be kept outside because of ethnicity. As the doorstepper and the affected person then solve, I leave it open. If it is a woman, it can be left out anyway – this is not a problem, because discrimination against women is only regulated on the labour market; by the way, it may also be reversed. [[Abg. Rädler: From what local?]] That is to say, we have a law here by which women – and I am now quite aware of it as women’s spokesperson – are protected only in one part from discrimination, not in all other areas of life – and that, although directives are already being worked on in the EU, women are to be protected from discrimination outside the workplace. In Austria, the watches go differently. Obviously one always takes the worst performance in the EU, because, Minister Bartenstein, you should have looked at the anti-discrimination law of Hungary or Poland, which is ahead of us. [[Abg. Ellwall: Only to implement they don't do it!]] In view of the fact that this law will not be constitutional, that, as has been said, it is likely to be faced with a constitutional complaint in the foreseeable future, it adds that the requirement for exemption, i.e. the independence of the equal treatment attorneys, is not subject to EU directives and not to VfGH compliance. So there is another reason why this law will not be observed. You can only say cynically: The fact that a law is not in conformity with the Constitution has never prevented this federal government from yet deciding on it – according to the motto: After us the flood! Until the judgments have taken place in two, three years, you probably know you're not going to be in government anymore, so risk it! In addition, this law does not only make progress for women and for victims of discrimination in many other areas, but also provides an blatant step back for women, from a totally banal fact: They are also not worth equal treatment and anti-discrimination! What we have in terms of resources in the equal treatment attorneyship on equal treatment for men and women at work is the equal treatment attorneyship, which is already quite exhausted, as we know from their reports. This area alone is being expanded a little – it already has more work to do, and there is hardly any significant additional staff for it – but the EU's anti-discrimination directives should be based on racial and ethnic belongings, on sexual orientation, on the grounds of age, on the grounds of worldlyity, on the basis of religious orientation, all of this should still be dealt with by the equal treatment attorney's office! Staff have no financial resources for this. [[Abg. Ellmauer: That's not all you claim! Read the draft!]] This means that everything will be cut off in one corner, there will be no additional financial resources, and something will be taken away in the other corner of the equal treatment of men and women at work – for there must be a shift of resources somewhere. That is to say, you are creating a law here that in practical life brings deterioration to the status quo, which is not even minimal – and I can only agree with the opinion of Mr Stoisits: “minimum” is still too big for what you are presenting here – standards of anti-discrimination and uniform discrimination are enough and where I assume that Parliament will hopefully have to decide on a repair soon.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19741	The next speaker was Mr Walch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19760	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Mrs Weinzinger, you have criticised the content of the negotiations. I was at the trial only once, but I was told that you did not take part in the last negotiation at all! So I don't know. If I want to negotiate or if I want to achieve something in the course of negotiations, I can't stay at home, but then I have to participate! It'd be very cheap. Mr Prammer has also criticised – although she has also expressed positive criticism or said something positive, namely that much good is also contained in this law, only: If, as my colleague told me, seven of the eleven demands made by the SPÖ – as Mr Ellmauer has already done – have been implemented, two have been partially implemented and two have been shown with two willingness to talk, then I really wonder what higher violence is affecting the SPÖ, which she apparently says: Negotiating on this goal, but then you'll see that you'll somehow make an objection! – I don’t think that’s the purpose of opposition work, that they say: I won't go with you. I don't like that. And I think everyone is interested, because if, like Mrs. Prammer, I am speaking now! – said, in Austria already in 1979, the equal treatment law, the federal law on equal treatment for women and men, and in 1993 a Federal Equal Treatment Act was created and in both a ban on discrimination on grounds of sex has already been established, and now a revision, a change in accordance with EU directives, means that one has already said at the time: [[Abg. Grade:...! Read]] [[think – talk! ...!]] Moment, in Austria we are one step ahead, because we also take appropriate care that there is no discrimination! [[Abg. Well done: Back then! Back then!]] But it is sad that, when improvements are proposed and negotiations are shown, the Greens stay at home at all and the Social Democrats say: Well, then we don't do it anymore, because now it might be possible that they say yes to the last two points too! – I believe that this is not fair – even if one knows what was required: the participation of NGOs in court proceedings, the extension of the time limit for asserting claims arising from sexual or gender harassment from six months to twelve months, the introduction of a lower limit in compensation for damages, and the obligation to state reasons of the court. And what else was: I am in the Human Rights Committee with Mrs Stoisits and therefore I know that what we have dealt with in the Human Rights Committee is already contained in this equal treatment law. That is why this request has also failed. I would really appeal to reason: If the government parties are already ready for good cooperation on an objective level, you will also show today that you agree to our request!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19816	Mrs Bundesminister Rauch-Kallat has spoken from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19834	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As a woman's minister, let me briefly address a number of points which have actually improved in this equal treatment law for women. One of the many points I would like to address here – because of the advanced period only very briefly – is the introduction of a new State of Discrimination: namely, the gender-related harassment that takes place on the grounds of sex, but without reference to the sexual sphere, becomes a new act. In the event of a breach of the principle of equal It is one of the many manifestations of Mobbing and therefore one, I believe, is very important. As far as the limits of compensation are concerned, there is a minimum compensation of three monthly fees for ascent discrimination with a difference in remuneration. There are the abolition of the compensation limits and the establishment of compensation limits. I think this is a step forward because it leaves much open up, and I also hope for a Judicture that is women-friendly and women-sensitive. In the event of discrimination, there is a minimum compensation of a monthly fee for the reasons of employment. So far, two monthly fees have been the maximum, so now much more is possible. In addition to replacing material damage, the legal consequences are amended in the event of breach of the equal treatment bid, including the immaterial damage that covers compensation for the personal impairment suffered. We could double the compensation for sexual harassment from €360 to €720; the amended burden of proof has already been addressed by the Federal Minister. Furthermore, a prohibition of discrimination in response to a complaint is introduced: In the event of the initiation of a procedure to enforce the principle of equal treatment, an employee may not be released, cancelled or otherwise disadvantaged by the employer. And this protection also applies to witnesses – I also think that is very important. The extension of the period of validity of claims arising from sexual or gender harassment from six months to twelve months in particular gives women the opportunity to claim a claim even after the shock has been overcome by an harassment. We know that it takes some women a certain amount of time to take the courage to do so. The extension of the penalty in the event of violation of the command of the gender-neutral job registration to employers according to § 10 GBG has so far only met work intermediaries – I now only take the female form, the men may feel addressed. [[Demonstrative applause with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. One towards ÖVP.]] Now employers are also included in it. After a warning in the first pass, a fine of up to €360 can be expected for further infringements. The extension of the powers of regional lawyers now also gives them the opportunity to submit applications to the Equal Treatment Commission. And the acquisition of costs for interpreters and translators of their own will be a major support for foreign women in particular. Last but not least, this law has finally succeeded in enforceing linguistic equality. This means that the equal treatment law is formulated in such a way that it treats women and men visibly the same language. All in all, I believe that we have also achieved substantial improvements to women's concerns in this law. It would be nice if a Constitutional Provision could also reach the non-corruption position of the equal treatment attorney's office. In this sense, I call on the SPÖ to contribute to this important law, and I would like to thank the honourable Member and my colleague, Martin Bartenstein, for the staff of the working departments. the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Health and Women as well as those of the Federal Chancellery.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19921	The next speaker was Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19940	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! We could very much help this to the constitutional majority, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, if you would also meet these last four demands. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Aha?]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Only at 100 percent!]] Eleven demands have been made by us. However, these were not demands with which we wanted to “citizen” something but, together with you, we really only wanted to implement the EU directive in accordance with it. [[Abg. Steibl: We do that, you have confirmed it to us! You said that's too little for you!]] You agreed to seven demands, that's nice, we're happy about that too. But with four very striking points, which I would like to explain even more, this has unfortunately not happened. [[Abg. Steibl: Mrs Colleague! Don't be so kind.]] So you can have this two-thirds majority of us if we jointly implement the EU Directive in accordance with EU law. But I'm afraid that won't be the case. Mr Bartenstein, if you have a heart of equal treatment – you have just appealed to us – then you could also give your heart a blow and convince your government parties that this directive will be implemented in accordance with EU law. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] In fact, it is incorrect that it is not implemented in accordance with EU law, Minister of State. We would have agreed if it were her. Therefore, as the last chance, I would like to make an amendment by Mr Mag. Introduce Prammer, Walter Posch, Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek and colleagues – he has been distributed, ladies and gentlemen – on the report of the Equal Treatment Committee on the Government Template: Bundesgesetz, with which a federal law on equal treatment is passed and the federal law on equal treatment, says: the equal treatment law, amended, in 499 of the supplements. In the key points, missing points have been formulated so far. If you give this your consent, the majority of the two-thirds will not be a problem for us – except for the legal guardians, we will still not help the majority of the Constitution. First of all, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, they were not prepared to obtain the claims for compensation for proven discrimination on the basis of a working relationship that is effective and dissuasive by the EU. – We demand an increase to three monthly fees. In addition, You are not willing to stay at least one month's salary, although you know as well as I do that only if the compensation is dissuasive and high will discrimination against women be reduced. But so it will not be lower, so it will remain equal or increase. Second point, burden of proof: We have not been able to agree on this either. By the way, I find it very regrettable, Federal Minister Bartenstein, Federal Minister for Smoking, that you were present on no one round of negotiations but sent your employees from the ministries, so you were not interested in equality policy. To the burden of proof: My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, our negotiations have ultimately succeeded in proving that the employer has not discriminated against, for example. But unfortunately, this half-rate, namely your formulation of "probable" non-discrimination, relativizes this burden of proof, so we cannot give this our consent. The third point concerns financial resources and staff increases. As has already been said several times today, it is very important that this be recorded, because if the staff is not increased, if the financial resources are not increased, then the already burdened equal treatment attorneyship will be even more burdened. And then everything won't go out. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If you agree to our amendment, we will be happy to allow the two-thirds majority, as our points would be fulfilled. Make Please have a real equality policy with us – and not the mistakes you have made now!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e20070	I announce that the request of the honourable Member has just been presented in his key points. Prammer, colleagues, and others were also presented in writing and supported sufficiently; he is therefore involved in the negotiations. With regard to the scope of the application, I leave it in accordance with § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure shall be duplicated and distributed; it shall also be printed in the Stenographical Protocol. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e20290	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Brinek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e20308	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! To my esteemed predecessor, I would like to say: Negotiations are not licensing procedures, so according to the motto “If you give me a few points, I’ll give you a few points!” [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Conformity of Guidelines! That's all we want!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Prammer.]] We have dealt honestly over long distances; Mrs Prammer will confirm this and my fellow Members too. I'm sure we're on the right track. The EU Directive is currently in the phase of comprehensive implementation. We can assume that the levels of assessment, assessment, evaluation at European level may change over the next five, six, ten years. I remember that in 1975 – 25 years ago – we started the law on equality in the international “year of women”. The bow extends through the coordination and the introduction of the Federal Equal Treatment Act until accession to the EU, when we introduced new standards. So there will certainly be a further development, but at present we are with a very good, tangible law. Since everything has already been said, for editorial purposes, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I ask for your consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e20387	The amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Scheucher-Pichler, colleagues and colleagues are sufficiently supported and are therefore negotiating. The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e20408	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Brinek, I have not really had the opportunity to look at your request. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Editorial adaptation!]] I just listened briefly, and I was surprised because you spoke of “editorial amendments” as a reason – and then you added the female forms. Before that, I have listened very carefully to Mrs Rauch-Kallat, who said that all of this has now been transposed into the law, including the publication in the language. I can only say: You've just corrected this quickly, if that was the case. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: No!]] It was too fast; we were not informed before. If it wasn't, then it wouldn't. I'll look at that anyway. In any case, I had the impression that you were now quickly correcting something that you had missed before. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: No! I can show you!]] Mrs Brinek, a second point: They told you how long it took to get some anti-discrimination measures or equal treatment measures up to date. You mentioned that there were already the first attempts in 1975, always saying: “We” have already done this in 1975; at least you have used “we” several times. As far as I remember, the ÖVP was not in the government in 1975; that was the sole government time of the SPÖ. That's why I'd say: Honor who deserves honor! In this case it was the SPÖ that started with these things – and not the ÖVP. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Okay!]] - That's just for clarification. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] A comment also on Minister Bartenstein. You have previously explained in your speech why you now call this law “Equal Treatment Act” and not anti-discrimination law, and that is based on the German term “equal treatment” because you do not want to use a foreign word. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Yes!]] – Mr Minister, it is well known to you that there are differences in content and not only linguistic. You probably also use foreign words in your language, otherwise we would have to look at what Latin-born words you do not use and whether you really do. [[Congratulation with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Schieder: “Minister” is not even German origin!]] Thank you, Mr Schieder! Mr Minister, if so, please say clearly, you do not want these contents of an anti-discrimination law – and do not move to a linguistic level now! [[Abg. May. Worm: (in the direction of the government bank) Or do you want to be called “servants ”?]] To the law itself. Ladies and gentlemen! The previous speakers from my group, including the SPÖ, have already defined some of the serious differences to our ideas. Let me address a few specific points. There is the point ‘unequal level of protection’. This is this combination mogel pack, which you serve us here, where under the title “Equal Treatment Act” you take in the other discriminations and then create as different situations or, so to speak, accesses as – and I want to list this differently than my colleague Brigid Weinzinger, in order to highlight it clearly from a different perspective – the following: As far as women are concerned, this law applies only in the world of work. And it is at least theoretically possible to adopt positive measures of discrimination. In English, the “affirmative action” is called “offensive action”. That sounds a little more positive than “positive discrimination”. But in German we have no other word for it. So let's take this! As far as discrimination against people on the grounds of their ethnic origin is concerned, this law applies beyond the workplace, i.e. also in the field of services. But positive discrimination must not be put in place. And in the third group of discrimination, namely the one based on age, sexual orientation, religion or belief, this is only true in the world of work; and positive discrimination must not exist at all. This is, as it were, the group that gets the least in this law. I already know that there are different directives in the EU. But example Black-Green in Upper Austria: They do it all, they make the same level of protection for all. Why Make You don't? Do you want to hide those groups that you may not want to address so openly, for example because of their sexual orientation or even because of their religious practice, discriminated against? [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein:... of the public service!]] Why don't you tell us openly: An anti-discrimination law for all these groups and for all also the same level of protection, ladies and gentlemen, you don't want that! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Mrs. Colleague, we are orienting...!]] That's what we're missing here! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Let me give you a very specific example. Bobby McFerrin has already been mentioned today. I'm going to turn this to an Austrian African origin: Mike Chukwuma, who – two years is, I think, now – has not been left in a disco in Linz. Now I know, Mrs. Gehrer says the young people – he is not so young either, but still – should not go so much on parties and discos. But some still like to do it. Mike Chukwuma was not let in. ==References== He could therefore go to the equal treatment attorney's office on July 7. However, I or any gay colleague from ÖVP or FPÖ or a lesbian colleague from the SPÖ or from where they might not be able to go, for example, to the disco or to a restaurant or to a swimming pool. They have no way to go somewhere and sue it. That's what you call equal treatment? – Ladies and gentlemen, this is not equal treatment, it is discrimination again! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Let me mention a positive point, but this is not due to your work, but to what the EU fortunately requires here, namely that at least facts are created in the world of work. Lesbian or gay partners will be able to take care leave – something that has not been possible until now. This creates, as it were, awareness of the family status of partners in same sex communities. At the same time, however, I have to say: Education, training, something to raise people's awareness of, which can be called discrimination based on age, religion, gender and racism – this is not happening. Also education at schools, measures in companies, so that people understand why a gay know-how or a sexist joke or a joke about old people – and not just a joke – is discriminatory, this is not happening in your template. Such measures, ladies and gentlemen, do not fall from heaven, they belong with trainings, with trainings and so on planned, enabled and financially supported. – Unfortunately, there is nothing in this law for all of this. So even in the area of awareness-raising, what my colleague Mr Stoisits said is: Also “minimum” is too big for what you have done here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e20613	The next speaker was Mrs Hellerer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e20633	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! This law on equal treatment has mainly concerned the implementation of the EU directives. There was indeed extensive negotiations with the opposition parties. As we have already heard today, there was a particularly intense approach to the SPÖ in detail. So if Mrs Stoisits has spoken of “fine negotiations”, we are already wondering where they should have taken place if 11 demands have been made on seven, which have actually been incorporated into this law matter. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lunacek.]] But we are not disappointed, because now it seems that it is a ritual to negotiate until the end point – and then jump off again. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: From you!]] But you still have a chance today, you can still agree to the exemption of the ruling of the institutions of the equal treatment prosecution. You would have to show that you really did something positive in this area. If this equal treatment law is so strongly criticized by SPÖ-side, I ask you to: Look at what has been implemented in Vienna! Mrs. Stadtratin Brauner presented this to the public as a great achievement. I can only say one sentence: “The SPÖ’s criticism of the German government on this issue is therefore totally unbelievable.” – This sentence does not come from me, but is a quote from the HOSI Vienna. If, in Vienna, where you have a home game from SPÖ, so to speak, it has not succeeded in implementing an anti-discrimination law that truly meets your requirements, and thus there is a law that goes far beyond the EU directives, then you could give your consent here without any good conscience.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e20674	Mr Morak, State Secretary, spoke from the Government Bank. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e20692	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen in plenary! Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! You have already referred to the law on equal treatment in the private sector in your comments. Let me stress here some specific points of the Federal Equal Treatment Act. Especially in the area of gender treatment, the federal government as a service provider, through the existing Federal Equality Act, which has been in force for more than ten years, can not only rely on a great wealth of experience, but it also has a pioneering role to play. . In this draft law, we have therefore sought to maintain the existing institutions, which already have considerable experience, in dealing with matters of discrimination and to bring in harmoniously the amendments to this system by means of the Anti-Rassism Directive, the Equal Treatment Framework Directive and the revised Equal Treatment Directive. This made it possible to develop both the existing standards of protection in gender equality and to avoid an excessive increase in administrative burden. This law, in particular, extends the principle of equal treatment for men and women in the field of equal treatment for men and women. treatment offered for reasons of race or ethnic origin, religion or belief, age or sexual orientation. This protection benefits all persons in a service and training relationship, including for the first time free service contracts. It protects in particular non-discrimination-free access to employment, the rise in employment, vocational training, further training and other conditions of employment and working conditions. I would like to stress in particular the proposed division of the Federal Equal Treatment Commission into two different Senates: One will deal exclusively with the issue of gender equality and the second with the newly added facts. The advantages of this solution are obvious: There is no exaggeration of the Senate. The expertise already gained in the gender sector can be made usable. Both Senates need only one single business apparatus – and last but not least, more professional discrimination can be treated uniformly. However, amendments will also be made by the present amendment to the original government proposal. In this context, I would like to thank the experts who gave a very detailed opinion at the last meetings of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Finally, I would like to stress that effective protection against discrimination on the grounds of sex and the concerns of the promotion of women in the Federal Service are and will remain an important social task and duty. The present draft law has not only improved the level, but has also expanded to include further anti-discrimination statistics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e20740	The next speaker was Mrs Binder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e20759	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is that this law contains three directives and is thus mixed. The fact is that EU directives are not fully implemented. I remember the expert hearing where one of the experts said that the mixing of the three guidelines led to a system shift. This is a political decision; it considers it to be missing and wrong. The main shortcomings have already been addressed by my previous speakers. Great for me personally, there will be four different levels of protection. For this reason, the following application shall also be submitted: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! Voices You and we will implement them together! If the EU directives are implemented effectively, we can also give our support to this draft.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e20845	Debates of the European Parliament Binder's amendment, which has just been read, has been tabled by the honourable Member Mag. Prammer, ladies and gentlemen are sufficiently supported and are negotiating. The next speaker was Mrs Riener. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e20866	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary – if he still stops somewhere! Ladies and gentlemen! If I consider the statements made by the opposition parties, especially in the Equal Treatment Committee and the related criticism, the government parties have not moved too much, then I wonder: Where should we have moved? [[Abg. May. Prammer: towards Europe!]] For the SPÖ, the EU Directive has not been sufficiently implemented, and Mr Stoisits regrets that the EU has not gone beyond one millimeter. In October 2003, MP Prammer was appalled at the mixture in the draft and demanded three own laws. If I've counted correctly, it's going to be three laws with the disability equalisation law. However, Mr Prammer again complained in the Committee debate that, according to the press release, government parties were concerned only with implementing EU directives, and not with adopting an anti-discrimination law. You hear me right! A law! – This is just an example. So: Where should we have moved?- Oh, my God! In such contradictory statements by the opposition, the question arises whether we would ever have had an opportunity of agreement by negotiation. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No! Never!]] Even if all wishes had been fulfilled, the fear – I don't think so positive – remains that something new would have come to your mind again in order not to have to agree. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There is a spatula in the ballet, but not in negotiations, as we assume responsibility from the government parties – ÖVP and FPÖ – and we ensure legal certainty for the people of Austria. Previously, the name has been spoken of as equal treatment law or anti-discrimination law. If debate is already under way, I would like to point out that equal treatment is the objective. Anti-discrimination is what we don't want. So the question remains whether we should not mention it positively where we want to go. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But now to the contents themselves. I am pleased to see the increase in the time limit for validating the equal treatment commission in the area of sexual or gender harassment. As one who works in the psychotherapist and consulting field, I know how important a longer term is. In Styria, the draft assessment provides for a period of three years, which I consider very effective. However, I repeat it: I am glad that the deadline has increased to a year. Now on the criticised burden schemes, which would not be largely enough. – In Styria I am a member of the Equal Treatment Commission. If, under the new regulation, a person is now bringing discrimination and making it credible, the defendant must be very likely to believe that discrimination has not taken place – or that inequality has been justified. As a Commissioner, I need to take a look at the best of my knowledge and conscience in order to make a decision. It is about motives or situations where there are no witnesses. So how can I clarify this situation so far in order to be able to make a calm conscience the decision as to whether discrimination has taken place. There are very often no objective evidence. All in all, the good legislation - and the EU directives are fulfilled. As part of the implementation, we will expand all our experience to ensure the best for the population in execution.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e20944	The next speaker was Mr Christ. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e20963	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! With this government template, the EU Anti-Rassism Directive, as we know, will be implemented almost six months and the Anti-Discrimination Directive will be implemented almost eleven months too late – and, as we all know, not even correctly. Granted, there are some positive steps, but – and we know that in the meantime too – even the EU directives are still not implemented in some key areas. Ladies and gentlemen! Independent legal experts and representatives of NGOs – and many of you have also been present – have experienced harsh, decisive, objectively sound and sustainable criticism of this government template, and rightly so, as we believe by the SPÖ. Just one of many examples: The proposed equal treatment laws are contrary to the fundamental principle of equal treatment. Equal treatment should be enforced with legal inequality treatment. The drafts discriminate even within the various victim groups. Four classes of discrimination are created. – These were just a few of the experts’ statements there. We Social Democrats have repeatedly called for higher compensation, proof relief and the establishment of a genuine ombudsman for victims of discrimination instead of burdening the equal treatment prosecution. We have also called for uniform levels of protection for all types of discrimination as well as a separate anti-discrimination law, which we believe is inseparable and important. But like the NGOs, we were often not heard or at least too little. In reality – and this has to be said – we even had to fight for the implementation of the EU directives, because you did not even want to do that by the government parties! As Mr Walch has said, as is so often the case, I am still saying: Someone who was not present at any of these so-called rounds of negotiations should not give so big sounds of himself! That's how it looks inside! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, therefore take advantage of the opportunity: Voices You agree with our amendment so that the EU directives can be implemented! Then we can also decide on the freedom of direction of the institutions. Otherwise, at the best of our will, we do not see the possibility of consent to this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21017	The next speaker was Mrs Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21035	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! I have heard here again and again that real negotiations have not been conducted; this has always claimed the opposition. – To this end: Seven demands were fulfilled, four not. Negotiations, in my opinion, mean that each negotiating partner will take one step at a time. And that's why: Where are the steps of the opposition? I think that if seven of your demands, so more than half of them, have been fulfilled, a lot has already happened. I am of the same opinion as my previous speaker, who has also confirmed that the EU directives have been implemented, and I think that this is a good law on equal treatment. An extension of the equal treatment bids was made on the basis of ethnicity, age, sexual orientation, religion, or belief in the world. It should be noted in particular that the burden of proof is the responsibility of the defendant to prove that there is no breach of equal treatment. Summary: It is a good law, the directives are transposed, there is more equal treatment and less discrimination. I wish that the opposition to the freedom of guidance of the court of equal treatment can still be accepted.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21072	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21090	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government, wherever you are! Ladies and gentlemen! In their criticism of our criticism of the Committee, the government groups have already meant that we only cling to formal matters, such as ‘small things’ as constitutionality or: Summary in a law instead of separate regulations. Such “formalisms” have already been dealt with by my colleagues – and will certainly still have to deal with the Constitutional Court. I would now like, as already in the Committee, to address the specific possibilities that the supposed protectors have to enforce their rights. The key element in the enforcement of rights is the distribution of evidence load. There's a decision whether someone who has the right also has the chance to get right. The equal treatment law, also in the various amended forms, does not give the protected persons this right! And that's where it pays off to read the text of the law more accurately. Under the Directive to be transposed, the applicant or the applicant must make the facts which suggest discrimination credible. The defendant, on the other hand, must prove to the full that he has not discriminated against. According to the Government's draft, the defendant can also prove himself freely with the evidence. The whole is packed in wound formulations in the amendment of the government fractions, but does not mean anything but that in practice a pat situation arises, which forces the applicant/complainant to provide the full proof that he/she has been discriminated against. In practice, you have to imagine this: This is about a job applicant, about an employee, about a job seeker or about the case of an ethnically discriminated against. These rarely have documents, usually have no insight into operating processes – and will also be difficult to drive up witnesses. There it is far from any reality to demand a full proof from them. That is why this directive exists. However, the fact that you do not want to implement this directive, which lays down European minimum standards, is not worthy of a civilized country for which Austria has always held its own. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's why I appeal to you, to your reason and to your conscience: Voices Please accept our amendment! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21160	Next speaker: Mrs Grander. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21181	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, The Federal Equal Treatment Act is fully innovative. For reasons of legal certainty and better legibility, transposition takes place in two laws. The previous equal treatment law is renamed and amended in “Federal Law on the Equal Treatment Commission and Equal Treatment Procuratorship”, and in addition a federal law on equal treatment is adopted, which adopts the material provisions and is extended to include those provisions resulting from the need for implementation. – Finally, gender-neutral formulations are used. I would now like to address the Tyrolean situation. We of the Tyrolean ÖVP have placed the first mayor in a district capital in Austria. That was our current colleague Machne from Lienz. We also have the first mayor of a state capital in Austria, namely Hilde Zach. Hiezu I would like to say that the city of Innsbruck is doing excellent work especially in the area of Gender Mainstreaming. Ten years ago, we also had the first councillor, Elisabeth Zanon. In the meantime, we have three councillors. State councillor Zanon has also introduced and implemented the equal treatment law. Since then, the proportion of women in the country house has increased. In particular, there are also senior positions, such as the management of the financial department and the Children's and Youth Procurement Department, with women. And there are selection criteria in all user groups. The target is: 40 percent women. The need for part-time jobs for women has also been closely considered and implemented. Head of State Van Staa has recently commissioned areas close to public services such as TILAK and Neue Heimat to review the businesses in the sense of Gender Mainstreaming. There are currently working groups in this area. [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] Finally, I would like to say: We in Tyrol also had a Federal President in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21227	Next speaker is Member Fleckl. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21245	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Many reasons have so far been mentioned why this equal treatment law should be rejected. I would just like to point out three more times at this point and, on the other hand, simply express my regret that the government parties were not even able to create the implementation of the EU directives. Too bad, ladies and gentlemen, because I think that such a law in the Austrian population should provide awareness-building, for which the government parties should be exemplary! Or do you really believe that this law will enable you to continue to drive Austria in terms of anti-discrimination as a model country in the EU? – Neither in the EU nor in the Austrian population will this be possible! I listened closely to Mrs Riener – I think she was – and Mr Ellmauer. She said: “Anti-discrimination is what we don’t want.” And Mr Ellmauer said that we are against anti-discrimination. In view of these two statements, it is clear to me what happened in this law. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Put to the point: On the track, effective measures to promote human rights and to reduce discrimination remain. Ladies and gentlemen! Turn around! Act in the sense of people and vote You agree with our amendment so that an EU-compliant directive can be drawn up, because then we can ensure that the institutions have such an important freedom of guidance! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21294	The next speaker is Mrs Marek. Desirable time: 3 minutes. The light shines after 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21312	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We have already heard several times today that the decision of the Equal Treatment Act has preceded long, months long and intensive negotiations. We were able to approach each other very far. Our side also made numerous concessions. I would remind you, for example, of the possibility of the participation of NGOs and the shift in the burden of proof which were only introduced in the course of the negotiations to stimulate the opposition to the government template. But, okay, I take note that you still cannot agree to the government proposal. For me, however, it is particularly regrettable and incomprehensible to me that SPÖ's announced non-conformity to exempt the prosecution of equal treatment. I do not believe that there is also only a reasonable and objective argument against the unbundling of this body from politics. It is interesting, however, that whenever it comes to making such a job point-free, the SPÖ cannot, unfortunately, vote on an excuse. For example, we have experienced the same with Deutsche Telekom and also with the legal protection officer. Obviously you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, want to preserve the access of politics to all arbitration bodies and everywhere. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] But whether this approach is modern and modern, I very much dare to doubt, Mr President. By contrast, you are trying to preserve power structures with all force, which have long since overtaken what even you should have recognized. But that is also a question of political and self-understanding. And this isn't about party politics, it's about the matter, and it's about us, too. We want to preserve essential arbitration bodies, as in this case the equal treatment prosecution, from party-politically motivated access so that they can do their work unimpeded. I therefore appeal to you: Voices You agree to the exemption of the equal treatment prosecution and thus prove your sense of responsibility as well as the orientation of the future!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21355	Mrs Walther has now come to speak. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21376	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear guests in the gallery! In times of socially democratically dominated governments, Austria was known and respected as a pioneer in matters of equal treatment for men and women as well as anti-discrimination. Today, the ÖVP FPÖ government is limited to complying with minimum standards in the transposition of the three EU directives into national laws. Whether it will really be rich will only have to decide the top courts. Let's take the anti-discrimination law: The problem of many people who feel discriminated and need help is that they need competitors, namely competent competitors, NGOs, who are truly qualified, voluntary and committed to human rights. I believe that no government does well to abandon the committed members of civil society. Government parties want to abandon this social conscience. Sometimes I wonder if they fear it. I think that this side-by-side intervention has created a good negotiating situation that is already in order for people who feel disadvantaged to be able to call at least the NGOs to support their concerns. However, we would say that it is still not long to bring about a real anti-discrimination law and equal treatment law. That is why I urge you to agree to our amendment so that the directives can be implemented in accordance with EU law. Then we could also imagine deciding on the freedom of guidance of the institutions.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21410	Mrs Sburny spoke in favour of an actual correction. Mrs Colleague, you know the Rules of Procedure. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21435	Mr President. Mrs. Grander claimed that Mrs. Landesratin Zanon was the first female councillor. – That’s, of course, wrong! [[Call the ÖVP: In Tirol!]] As far as Tyrol is concerned, too, this is wrong, since Mrs Landesratin Zanon was already Mrs Landesratin Lichtenberger at work. [[Abg. Steibl: In the ÖVP!]] That's right.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21483	Mr Sieber. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21501	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. In view of the adaptation of the Federal Equal Treatment Act to EU law, equal treatment is extended to areas of ethnicity, religion or belief, age or sexual discrimination. The present government proposal aims to regulate, as far as possible, all these equal treatment bids in a uniform law, thereby making them multi-disciplinary. It is also necessary to provide for a uniform treatment of criminal offences in the working world and to facilitate access to justice. This holistic approach is therefore expected to strengthen equal treatment and protection against discrimination. In addition, a law is more likely to help to limit the flood of unsolicited law of all of us. I would like to stress that we here have a good and also clear law before us, which will provide more protection to those concerned. An important and often criticised point in this regard is the reverse of evidence that the defendant must prove that no discrimination has taken place. In advance, the person concerned must only make the fact that makes discrimination credible, and then it is up to the accused party to prove that it has not been discriminated against. The defendant is therefore obliged to give evidence. I do not understand, therefore, where the burden of proof is not to be fulfilled here, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, where this system of proof has long been enshrined in the Austrian law on equal treatment and has not been challenged by the EU Commission. An accusation of the opposition is that the draft does not allow for real equality policy. However, the draft explicitly sets out the objective of equality between women and men, and, secondly, it makes clear that positive measures to speed up de facto equality of treatment between women and men are not discrimination within the meaning of the law. On the contrary! This law shows that policies for women and other people threatened with inequality are being made. So today we are adopting a law that will help people who are treated unevenly.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21552	The next speaker is Member of Parliament. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21571	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! The issue is, among other things, very important and very specific, as I believe, also in the world of work and the implementation of this directive on the implementation of equal treatment in employment and occupation, i.e. throughout the world of work. For me, particularly important and, as I believe, a key task of policy is to ensure that all workers – and I emphasize: all workers – find fair and fair conditions in the working world. Ladies and gentlemen! For me, only then do decent and just conditions exist if there is no discrimination in the workplace, in the workplace as a whole, no matter what. Moreover, as I believe, there must be no discrimination throughout society. I now come to a weakness which is clearly still contained in the law, which is likely to be decided by the government parties today, in accordance with EU Directive, that the claims for compensation for proven discrimination should be effective, proportionate and dissuasive on the grounds of employment. However, this requirement is clearly not implemented. In summary and in conclusion, I must say that it is a pity that the government parties did not jump a little above their shadows on the points where there are still fundamental differences with the opposition and have made the necessary concessions, which would essentially mean that the directive will be fully implemented. Use – and this is the last call – the opportunity and agree to our amendment so that this directive can be implemented in accordance with EU law! Then we can also decide on the freedom of direction of the institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21619	Mrs Steibl is now speaking for 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21637	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! At the end of this debate, something to smile: The SPÖ is constantly calling for further measures to ensure gender equality, but is also monitoring its own weaknesses. During the negotiations, a wish list from the SPÖ club was handed over to us with the sender – please listen carefully! –: Dr Gabriele Kotzegger, club secretary. – Where is gender equality here? Where is the same language between men and women? Where is linguistic equality? Where's the gender idea here? I would propose to the SPÖ club, if not club secretary, then perhaps Klubreferentin. Take advantage of the opportunity and apply the law now to be decided to bring about equality in language!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21672	The last provisional speaker in this debate is Mrs Haidlmayr. Your welcome time: 5 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21690	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to take the opportunity to remind the debate today that we in Austria do not yet have a law on equal treatment for persons with disabilities. Of course, this is not about implementing the EU directive, but about a long-term overdue law that we need in Austria and which we have been promised for years now. I can still remember how we took part in government negotiations with the EIA. We have negotiated very intensively with Mrs Rauch-Kallat. At that time we were promised: Well, that's very important, and that's gonna be very fast. Now two years have passed, and in these two years absolutely nothing has happened, but the law or the draft will be postponed and delayed. Mrs. Minister! I would really like to ask you personally to put pressure on the Chancellor's bowl, because he is the one who has simply been trying for months not to pass the law on. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In December, a draft preliminary assessment was sent, but not one made by those concerned, but only by the Ministry of Social Affairs, who had no content to say and write. Now the assessment period is over and the subject matter is back somewhere... – Mr Scheibner, you can do this later with your cigar! [[Abg. Scheibner has a box in his hands.]] I do not think it would be bad for you to listen, because you too would have to be interested in the law on equal treatment for persons with disabilities. I'm asking you to do this! – It’s not enormous if I ask you to listen to me and offer your cigar later. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That's none of your business at all! Don't be so obnoxious! That's incredible! It's ridiculous what you're doing!]] That's just the way it is. It's up to you. [[New condolences with the greens.]] Mr Scheibner, if this is embarrassing to you, don't take the cigar with you. Then you don't need to show them to anyone. What are you doing?- Oh, my God! Well, that's ridiculous! But now continue to the disability equalisation law. Mrs. Rauch-Kallat, you know, the law is overdue and nothing happens. There is nothing happening in the working groups, and the representatives of those concerned have simply been switched off in the preparation of the draft. This draft does not contain a single point that would really bring something, because no single ministry, for example, I am thinking of the field of education, is somewhere in this preliminary draft. You know, Mrs Minister, last year we had the European Year of People with Disabilities. Everyone was quite euphoric, I wasn't. But you promised us that last year, by December at the latest, we would adopt a law on equal treatment for persons with disabilities. Nothing happened! I know you're not responsible, but you promised me. I also believe that the issue is important to you in the interests of disabled people and directly affected, namely as the mother of a disabled daughter. I hope it's still important to you now. And that is why I believe that you should not put pressure here as a competent minister, but as a representative or supporter for disabled people in Austria. That would be important to me. Mrs Minister, I expect the matter to go on now and that at least in July we will have a semi-usable draft in order to be able to pass a law in the autumn. You know that there is really no equal treatment for disabled people in Austria. The situation for people with disabilities is disastrous. I have now taken this as an occasion because I still see three members of the government of the ÖVP sitting on the government bank. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] It's just that the ÖVP blockes the law substantially! Solve your blockades, and finally work to ensure that we in Austria have a law on disability equal treatment, which also deserves its name, and that discrimination against disabled people is at last a thing of the past. I very much ask you to do this!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21757	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is therefore closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Federal Equal Treatment Act, in 498 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Mr Prammer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment. First of all, I shall vote on the parts concerned by the amendment and then on the draft law, together with the title and receipt, in the version of the Committee's report. Deputies Mag. Prammer, colleagues and I have tabled an amendment concerning Z 3. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand for it to be a sign. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Now you can prove whether you are for equal treatment!]] – The application does not find the majority and is therefore rejected. [[Abg. Silhavy: A chance again!]] We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are standing in for this. – These parts, as amended by the Committee's report, are the majority and are therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those members of the House who give their consent to him to give a sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are also in favour of this draft law at the third reading, to have a sign of approval. – The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We come to the vote on the draft federal law, which lays down a law on equal treatment and amends the Federal Act on equal treatment for women and men in working life, in 499 of the supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Scheucher-Pichler, Dipl.-Ing. Mr Achleitner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment. In addition, the Members of Parliament have power. Mr Prammer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a supplementary or amendment. I am therefore going to vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposals, in accordance with the classification of the draft law, and finally on the remaining parts which have not yet been voted on. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution. 1 amendments tabled. Deputies Mag. Prammer, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment which refers to Sections 2, 4, 5, 12, 20 and 26. I would like to ask those Members of the House who are in favour of this request for a sign in this regard. – The application does not find the majority and is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign to do so. – This finds the majority and is accepted. Deputies Mag. Scheucher-Pichler, Dipl.-Ing. Mr Achleitner, fellow Members, and the honourable Members, Mr Mag. Prammer, colleagues and colleagues each have the removal of the third paragraph of Article 29 of the directive. Section and headings requested. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Deputies Mag. Scheucher-Pichler, Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner, colleagues and colleagues have an amendment concerning § 32 para. 2 introduced. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this amendment to be a sign of approval. – The approval shall be granted by a majority. Deputies Mag. Scheucher-Pichler, Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner, colleagues and colleagues have requested the deletion of Sections 30 to 32 as well as headings under § 37. Whoever stands for this, I ask for a sign of faith. – The consent is granted, this is therefore accepted. Deputies Mag. Prammer, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment which refers to Sections 44, 45 and 62. I am looking for those Members of the House who are in favour of this amendment by Mag. Prammer enter to a corresponding sign. – The application does not find the majority and is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. In case of consent, I'm looking for a sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Deputies Mag. Scheucher-Pichler, Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment which refers to § 64. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – The approval is granted by a majority. Deputies Mag. Scheucher-Pichler, Dipl.-Ing. Mr Achleitner, fellow Members, and the honourable Members, Mr Mag. Prammer, colleagues and colleagues have requested the removal of the articles under § 64, Sections 55 and 56, together with headings. I ask those Members of the House who agree to this to give a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on this. 2 of the draft law. Deputies Mag. Mr Prammer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an additional request for the insertion of a new paragraph. 12 in § 3 zur Inhalt. Whoever stands for it, I'm looking for a sign. – The request does not receive the approval of the House; it is rejected. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are also in favour of this draft law at the third reading, to have a sign of approval. – The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Barbara Prammer, colleagues on the request to the Federal Government to give the National Council a real anti-discrimination law. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – The request remains in the minority, it is therefore rejected. In addition, we reach the vote on the draft Constitutional Law establishing a Federal Constitutional Law on the freedom of guidance of the institutions of the Court of Justice as well as a Federal Constitutional Law on the freedom of law enforcement agents, in 500 of the supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Scheucher-Pichler, Dipl.-Ing. A request for a separate vote on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 1 introduced. I shall therefore vote on the draft law in accordance with this request. Since this draft law is a federal constitutional law, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, specify the number of Members required for the vote. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the subject. 1 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a sign. [[Abg. May. Molterer: (in the direction of the non-representative of their seats) This is typical!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: No freedom of guidance!]] – The draft law, which has just been agreed, has not been adopted with the required two-thirds majority. Consequently, there is no legislative decision of the National Council within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure. We shall now proceed to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. [[Abg. May. Molterer: ( towards SPÖ) Not again!]] – The remaining parts of this draft law were not adopted with the required two-thirds majority. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Consequently, there is no legislative decision of the National Council within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. May. Molterer: They do not even agree with independence! Typical SPÖ!]] We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Human Rights to take note of its report 501 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall come to the vote on the request of the Committee on Human Rights to take note of its report 502 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is also accepted by a majority. 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Committee on Science and Research on the Government Template (371 D.B._Other Organiser Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine on cooperation in the field of science and technology (481d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21929	Now we get to the 11th. Agenda item. Thankfully, there was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21953	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! We are now discussing the agreement on scientific cooperation between Austria and Ukraine. How did this agreement come about? – The Federal Ministry of Education, Science and Culture has conducted a survey among Austrian researchers on the interest of cooperation with Ukraine in the field of research. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] This result, of course, has aroused a great interest in project cooperation. However, this study has also shown that there are already numerous contacts between the two countries in the field of research. For example, I call the cooperation of the University of Vienna and TU Vienna; TU Wien already has successful partnership agreements with TU Lemberg. Another example is the cooperation of the University of Kiev with the University of Vienna in participating in EU projects. Dear ladies and gentlemen! This agreement was initialled by President Kutschma in November 2002. In June of the previous year, our Federal Minister Ferrero-Waldner signed the agreement at her Ukraine stay. With the ratification of the agreement on the Ukrainian side of the Feber this year Ukraine has now, in accordance with its nature. 9 fulfils all national requirements for in-force treading. The aim of this Agreement is to promote the internationalisation of the science area by financing mobility costs of bilateral research cooperations. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The cost of this agreement is estimated at approximately €90 000 per year and is financed by the Federal Funds of the Austrian Exchange Service for Scientific and Technical Cooperation. We will, of course, be happy to give our approval to this agreement.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22011	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Niederwieser. Voluntary time limit: 3 minutes; Two minutes would be better. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22029	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! We will vote in favour of this agreement. Mr Kurzbauer has already explained the essential contents and advantages. I therefore focus on the one question that has already been raised in the Committee and which has remained open, namely the question of what this agreement means with regard to the European perspective which Ukraine is seeking, which is supported by Austria. You said it was about schools and other scientific exchange programmes. We do not believe that this is subsumable from the point of view of ‘European perspective’. Furthermore, I would like to point out that these agreements are not alone, but that, as in a memorandum from the Federal Government, it is possible to read about the European Research Area in order to solve further questions. In particular, there is a need to redesign social security, taxes, labour law, foreign law and also commercial law in order to give real impetus to scientific cooperation. In the last few days, a term has been coined: “Multiculturality” you used, Mrs. Federal Minister. This would fit very well when it came to cooperation between universities, scientists and researchers. However, they have used it in a different context, namely to justify why the right university councils, which generate a lot of mishaps not only from the student, should continue to remain such. One could hardly better formulate how to understand this statement. He first quotes you when Hans Rauscher did this today in the “standard”. First of all, he brings a quote from you, namely: “I believe that we are living in an age where multiculturality and tolerance are very important goals.” and writes – I quote –: “Multiculturality! Tolerance! For German-tumbling rulers who want to think about the crimes of National Socialism, do not think in the paths set by re-educationers’ (Friedrich Stefan)! To defend the fact that both gentlemen became protestant students, Gehrer says: ‘,’ says Rauscher, ‘this is out of court’. And he concludes: “This is how we have always introduced the black and blue ‘uni-reform’: Intermutation of research and teaching with aggressive eternals.” Mrs Bundesminister, this has not deserved our universities in the competition! [[Call at the ÖVP: Who were the aggressive?]] The responsibility for this is solely borne by the Federal Government which has ordered these persons. Change that before the damage becomes too big!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22067	Mrs Bleckmann is now speaking. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: I've been notified!]] This is not yet known to us, but we are flexible. - Aha, now it's ready. Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Ahleitner, I'll give you the floor. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22096	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! We also welcome the agreement with Ukraine on scientific and technical cooperation. We are pleased that Austria is working more closely towards scientific cooperation, in particular with countries outside the EU. It is all positive what the research rate in Austria supports. The current research rate can be seen: With 2.27 percent of GDP, we have excellent performance in the field of research – even though I know that the opposition still does not believe that and the number is constantly questioning the subject matter. Another successful step in research policy has been taken today. Today, the Council of Ministers has passed structural reform for research. This is the biggest reform in the Austrian research funding landscape in the last 40 years. Ladies and gentlemen! Since the Black and Blue Government takes care of research policy, we are on the right track to reach the Lisbon target of 3% of GDP by 2010. We deliberately raise this latte, because: Overcoming the previous governments is really not a challenge for us!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22130	Mr Grünewald has now spoken. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22148	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs. Federal Minister! It's, I think, one-and-a-half years ago, you called me: Please not only with screen, charm and melon! You have to agree with me, too. – This event occurs today. I agree with this government agreement. I wonder, however, why what science and research should mean for Austria should be put out so eminently, by means of a state treaty or a government agreement, at around 10 p.m. in the evening, the importance of Austria's research should be extended. [[Abg. Ellmauer: There's nothing she can do for it!]] Look, I'm reporting that despite this state treaty, which is good and beautiful and fine, and which also brings some reasonable benefits, in the last Scientific Committee, for those who were not there or who did not belong to it, there has been a fairly respectable debate. Why? – From nine items on the agenda, the current one sees the light of Parliament, all the others have been postponed, rejected, as absurd, as not necessary, as not mature enough for the government, for research. And nothing of this is discussed in Parliament! Nevertheless, the government, including you, is constantly talking about the need to focus on the need to show our profile that it needs to be focused and the prestige of science and research in the public also needs to be recognized. But You do not want to debate it publicly – except for your loyal state agreement! What was there on the agenda? The Federal Government's Technology and Research Report 2003 was discussed. This contains, as it is not produced annually, data which go back to 1999. On the day the debate was held, the 2004 report was finally signed. But he wasn't discussed. – I wonder how fast-lived research still needs to be, that at least one does not deal with ancient writings, because such a thing would have to be almost antique in research, I say quite openly in committee. Furthermore, an academicisation of the care professions should have been discussed. What is also important for research: A rise in medical and technical professions – 80 percent of women who encounter a glass ceiling, although they are often involved in research – was not interesting enough or not lupen-only exactly your place of business. - You just don't discuss that. It should have been discussed why the universities are not as happy as you all suspect because they lack money. This too was not worth a debate in Parliament. I think, Mrs Federal Minister, that there is a lot of things to solve together with property and house mind. However, this is only possible if one goes down a little bit from all-powerful feelings and some of the government parties do not show themselves in a magnificent truth to the evangelism and reject any request to oppose any proposal of the opposition from the outset. That was to connect with Ukraine, perhaps decades ago there. Not naïving, it might have been fidelity. But much is no longer missing and we are at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22185	Mrs. Gehrer has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22203	Mr President. High house! First of all, I would like to refer to the comments made by Mr Ddr. The Dutch say something: I really think it is important that we talk about what tolerance is, how far tolerance goes, and that those who claim any tolerance of the world must also exercise tolerance on the other hand. If you don't apologize for the doors entering and tossing, it must be very tolerant on the other hand. I'm going to tell you something: A group that does not apologise for our Foreign Minister Mock to be scrambled at an official event that needs a lot of tolerance on the other side to justify that too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] And I'll tell you something: On Sunday the Pennal Day of the MKV takes place. The Middle School Cartel Association is a combination of young people who are ideally seen to meet. All left groups call for protest demonstrations on the Internet. This is supported by the AKS, which is supported by the executive of the high school, it is organized that those from the station go down to Baden, that they officially demonstrate that they are practically ringing the event of the MKV with vibration pipes. [[Call the ÖVP:Very tolerant!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I mean, that's a lot of tolerance you're demanding from us. And so we also demand tolerance for a broad spectrum that exists in our country. I really ask you to take this very seriously! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Now the agreement with Ukraine. I was last weekend on a work visit to Ukraine. We signed a Memorandum of Understanding. We have invited school classes from Odessa, who receive a tourist training, to come to Bad Leonfelden, to Ried im Innkreis. We work together at university level, we work together in teacher education and in the know-how transfer. And what I've done to the Minister responsible: We support Ukraine in its efforts to participate in the Bologna process to become a member of the Bologna process. Together with Ukraine, we will apply for research projects in the 7th and 6th years. EU framework research programme, as research projects involving third countries, are a particular priority in the new framework research programmes. We will also invite Ukraine to participate in our CEEPUS programme, which is a special mobility programme. ==References== May celebrate a great feast because new countries have come to the EU. However, in order to ensure a stable Europe, a Europe in peace, we must also look beyond the borders of the EU, establish good contacts for young people with the other countries. This agreement with Ukraine is such a basis for establishing good contacts between young people, students, researchers and the professors. And I thank you for supporting all of this agreement with your vote.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22249	The next speaker is Dr. Brader. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22267	Mrs. Minister! Mr President. High house! Mr Grünewald, you have complained that the debate on the technology report is not taking place publicly here. I would remind you, however, that the discussion in the Committee was public, it was only no one who found it worth listening. But that's another subject. Even if the present agreement of our two countries is only part of a larger whole, it reflects the constant efforts to create good conditions at political level for contacts in Eastern Europe. That's good. We not only support Ukraine's approach to Europe, but also create the best conditions for our country, its citizens and its citizens. The starting position is not bad. For example, the Austrian Institute for Comparative Education and Higher Education compares country-specific curriculum of the various fields of study in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe in order to address problems of foreign stay. There is one of the main countries Ukraine. Austria is the only country involved in both mobility programmes. That's good. I hope that this agreement will also bear fruit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22306	Mrs Walther is now speaking to us for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22325	We also welcome this agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Ukraine's Department of Ministers, because many similar agreements have already brought a lot of positive things for researchers and technicians as well as for the studying youth. Mrs. Minister has already mentioned CEEPUS. This programme also allows a lot of experience, experience of young people also about land and people. They have also produced good results in cooperation between the scientific institutions. A non-essential aspect – now, three weeks after the EU accession of ten new countries – is also the fact that the meeting of young people and also of technicians and researchers in Europe has delivered some building blocks to the enlarged Europe and brought a good basis for the future. The funds used are never spent for nothing. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22355	Mrs Felzmann has now reached the speaker's desk for 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22373	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The present Treaty between the Republic of Austria and Ukraine is a major and certainly a milestone in bilateral research cooperation. Why is Ukraine important and particularly important? – Ukraine is the largest European country on the ground. That's pretty important. In the order of magnitude, it is comparable with France and Italy. And the border... – This is partly Asian – I have spoken of European. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Russia!]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: No, Russia is a member of the Council of Europe!]] - Good.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22419	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22435	Good. In any case, it is important for us: Ukraine is a huge country, up to the border it is no further than to Vorarlberg. What is the point of this agreement? – It’s about research, it’s about the transfer of research, it’s about mobility, it’s about good cooperation between our researchers and Ukraine’s researchers. [[Abg. Arbitrators: I just wanted to be correct!]] It will focus on topics such as pharmaceuticals in hospital management, new thermoelectric materials, interethics and migration history as well as studies on literary works. So you see, there is a very broad arch here, you can also see that this Federal Government is very committed to research, innovation and development, and in this case we are pleased that you too are going along and are proactive.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22472	The next speaker is Mr Rada. He also wishes to speak for 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22493	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Before I come to the subject, I would like to introduce two more thoughts to the speeches made by my previous speakers. On the one hand: Member Achleitner has claimed that, since the blue-black government, the research rate has increased so enormously. The only thing we hear from you are forecasts for this research rate, and it is absolutely impossible to prove it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If I were cynical now, I could say, They have therefore chosen Ukraine because we have almost the same research quotas. We're about 2 percent and Ukraine is 1.6%. Maybe that was the consideration. But much more important to me is the statement made by Mr Grünewald, because this has a method and does not refer only to the Scientific Committee. Although, in principle, everything is done publicly in the Committee, and we are not going to deal with the subject in plenary. And here we move on to marginal issues, for example, an agreement with Ukraine, to which everyone agrees anyway, because it is positive in terms of the EU. The practice will show whether it will only be student exchange, whether only some correspondence or actual research is taking place. At €90 000 I really can't imagine that.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22532	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hütl. Time limit: 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22550	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ukraine has been active since its independence on 6 June. In July 1990, great efforts were made to improve the country's internal situation. It opens wide and strong towards Europe. A first highlight was reached in 2000 with the Protocol to the Agreement on Cooperation establishing a Partnership between the European Communities and Ukraine, which entered into force. In the administrative and legal sphere, approximation to the EU is aimed at achieving the goal of acquiring membership in the future. After many years of cooperation between Austria and Ukraine in science, education and culture, we are today discussing an agreement on scientific and technical cooperation between the two countries, with particular emphasis on the reciprocity and the jointly agreed areas, i.e. the balance of financial, content and infrastructure contributions between the two partners and the concentration on certain fields of expertise. Cooperation in the university field has also been particularly highlighted and also the one between the national academies of the sciences of the two countries. Ladies and gentlemen! Thanks to our Federal Government and our Mrs. Federal Minister Elisabeth We are certainly on a good path to the proposed research quotas, as it has already been mentioned, and to a European university and research area. To this end, it is also necessary to provide the greatest possible support for young researchers, students and students. This agreement will also contribute to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22589	The next speaker was Mrs Wolfmayr. Time limit: 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22607	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This agreement, which has already been discussed in detail and positively by Members, aims to further improve cooperation between Ukraine and Austria and regulates the financial support of joint projects. First of all, it is about replacing the so-called mobility costs – all on the basis of reciprocity, my colleague has already said that – taking into account the priorities of both parties. The agreement was also drawn up by both parties and the respective departments of the two countries were also consulted. There was no objection from here either. Finally, if you are doing research, countries can now have additional resources for international cooperation. I would like to stress one point of the agreement, namely Article 5, which relates to the protection of intellectual property, which is particularly important for research projects and the researchers themselves. Finally, any legal effects of the results of joint work must be regulated, as well as the scientific and technical information provided to each other under the Agreement must be protected legally. Summary: Of course, we welcome this agreement, which promotes and regulates further exchange and cooperation in research, science and technology. I think it is very, very sad that some of the opposition's colleagues do not miss an opportunity to even take political change on this issue and make the work of the government parties bad.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22637	As the last speaker on the list of speakers, Mrs Fuhrmann is speaking for 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22656	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! In principle, we need to note that experience abroad has long been a necessary qualification, especially for young people, in the category of private pleasures, but rather in the field of economics and science, in order to be able to exist accordingly in the labour market. That is why I am very glad that many young people, including 51,000 Austrian students since accession, have been able to complete some of their studies abroad in another country. It is clear that this is not cheap and that, accordingly, one must also provide support. Accordingly, € 89 million of EU funding went to Austria, and I believe that we should continue to work on achieving this objective. We should also work on facilitating young people by mutual recognition of exams and diplomas. Otherwise you can hold: If 70,000 people succeed and we can also support the EU's support for educational projects, that is something we can be proud of. Austria is therefore not for nothing an interesting research location and has the investment from the Since 1994 it has been possible to increase tenfold abroad. So I'd say, Keep going!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22688	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We are now voting on the request of the Scientific and Research Committee to approve the conclusion of the State Treaty in 371 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. 12. Point Report of the Education Committee on the Government Template (390, B.C.E._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Landeslehrer-Servicesgesetz and the Landescontractslehrergesetz 1966 (485 d.b.) 13. Point Report and request of the Teaching Committee on the draft federal law amending the School Education Act (486, e.g.) 14. Point Report by the Committee on Education on Amendment No 284/A (E) by Mr Dieter Brosz, Members of Parliament on emergency measures to prevent unwanted and unwise teacher exchanges during the school year by early retirement (487, B.C.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22746	We are now moving to the last complex that we have on the agenda today. These are the agenda items 12 to 14 on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The debate opens Mr Ddr. Decliner. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22771	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! We agree with the Landeslehrer-Denstrechtsgesetz, the two-thirds-matter. Ladies and gentlemen will put forward another motion for a resolution. This is – if you have noticed – the first school law here in the house for a year, and I hope that next year we will pay more attention to this issue because we do not get very far with this way. I am now dealing with what does not come from the department, namely the School Education Act. We got a leaflet this morning. I would have liked it better if the media-law imprint would be on it, but be it on it. It was a lot of partnership here. But you did not even find it worth it, Mr Amon, before you submitted your request to talk to the school partners. They did not talk to the teachers, nor did they talk to the students’ representatives and the parents’ representatives. [[Abg. Grandruck: That's wrong!]] You have had a wish with regard to your student representation, and you have admitted that to the committee, and with regard to parents you have referred to a press release. There was no conversation. This is not the partnership that we imagine, which is the opposite. They are talking about partnership, but they are not talking to these partners before you make a request. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the future, no one can be overshadowed, so is the motto. That's nice. But in the future, no one can be disputed? – The house rules that are on the agenda are all decided. That is why our proposal was if you really take it seriously to make a restart. This means that in the future, the behavioural agreement and the household regulations will be decided by a majority of two-thirds, but that this applies equally to existing ones, i.e. they will be lifted and re-adopted in accordance with the new rules. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] The National Council is without a doubt entitled to do so, you know. You also said yes first and then presented us with a motion for a resolution which is absolutely unacceptable – a motion for a resolution which is even a little succinct. In it, nothing else is required but that school supervision ensure that the laws are complied with. That is probably their task, and we do not need to put forward our own motion for a resolution. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But this is not certain in Vienna!]] The LDG shows that we are very well prepared to give our approval to two-thirds, but we are not ready for this with an unthinked rapid shot, Mr Amon. [[Calls and counter-calls between honourable Members Mag. Worms and discs.]] If you then believe we can be pressured by press releases, which are anything but friendly, in the negotiation phase, if you believe you need to play the Rambo, then you can try it quietly, you won't be successful with it.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22844	Now the apostrophic Member is speaking Amon. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22863	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Niederwieser, on the one hand, I am not obliged to inform you in all the details with whom I have talks. I'd ask you to take note of this. Secondly, Mr Niederweiser, we wanted to give you today the opportunity to correct a mistake you made a few years ago. The interesting thing is that you today criticize that at one school or another there may be a house order or a behavioral agreement that does not correspond to the notions of a Curia – student representatives, teachers representatives or parents. Do you know why this is possible? – It is therefore possible because at that time, although there has already been a four-party agreement here in the House, which was signed by the teachers of all parties, your club members in the morning Then declared the agreement irrelevant. That is why we have this problem, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is actually sad that this is not possible, and that is also the reason why we discuss very few school laws here because you operate fundamental opposition out of the corner. When it comes to substantial improvements for the school partners, you are not willing to participate. That's really sad, that's really disappointing, I'm telling you. One thing has to be aware of whether you want to or not: More than 200 student representatives at a student congress of the Austrian Student Union have come forward with a resolution and with the urgent desire for education politicians and the Minister of Education to eliminate these abuses and to allow any Curia involved in the school partnership to agree in the future also if such agreements or house arrangements come into force. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Niederweiser]] But they reject this wish, a wish that is basically just as much from your social democratic parents. – Mr Nekula is no one to be assigned to us, no, that is a social democracy, a high-ranking member of the children’s friends. He also believes that this scheme would be useful. If you cannot agree to such a regulation because of the fact that you want to remain in the corner of the fundamental opposition, then this is a sad thing for Austrian education policy, a sad matter for the Austrian school partnership in the sense of successful cooperation, and it is embarrassing for social democracy.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22920	The next speaker is Mr Faul. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22938	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Last week, on television and in the print media, you held a plea for the Smallest Schools in Austria and referred to the missing village infrastructure, you talked about the post and the closed army posts that did not close us, but your government. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Schlögl has begun!]] And if you now see the local small school as the institution that is supposed to be the salvation for the intact village life, you almost have to agree. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Schlögl or One, this is the question!]] For the sake of order, Mrs. Minister, I have to ask you: To whom do you have to save the small country schools that are now to be threatened by the closure? – But perhaps not before you, Mrs. Federal Minister, or perhaps before Federal Minister Grasser or perhaps in front of Mr. Federal Chancellor? Mrs. Federal Minister! Who has turned the money to the countries, who has given them these ratios? Who imposed on them the ratios between students and teachers? [[Abg. May. Molterer: Häupl, Niessl agreed!]] Mrs. Minister! Finally, as the last committee meeting has shown, you want to be completely free of the problems of national teachers and thus of the problems of pupils in the country. Mrs. Federal Minister! Thus, if you have been touched by the situation of small rural schools, you, as a responsible minister, are overcoming the problems of city schools, which are ultimately also subject to such high pressures by your savings policy. Mrs. Minister! Imagine these children in the media too, say just as loudly that you want to take action for the advancement of these students and for their good education, and eliminate this injustice by penetrating student numbers in the overcrowded city schools!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23002	The next speaker is Mrs Rossmann. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23020	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to follow Mr Amon's statement, which has already pointed out that there has been a very useful four-party proposal, which has also been signed by you, Mr Niederwieser, and which has not been achieved at the end of the day. [[Abg. Gradwelt: Niederweiser has not signed!]] – Then it was his predecessor as an educational speaker. The fact is, he was signed by your group and then he did not get it. And now we wanted nothing but to make a change that would have been useful. But, of course, we're caught ourselves. I can only quote from Goethe’s “Zauberleiterling”: We are no longer going to let go of the spirits that we called for, because in the end, everything was cemented with two-thirds of a majority in the education system, one in a way in which constitutional law was x-fold misused. And now we are facing this situation. Our only hope is, I say, the Convention. Perhaps then all these simple and not great upheavals in the school system are no longer subject to the two-thirds majority. However, I would also like to comment briefly on this law because it is important to me. It will implement an EU directive, namely the protection of workers in the field of national teachers, which we welcome. All that is natural in the private sector, namely the protection of employees, is now also being received in the school sector. However, I also mention that this protection of workers will cost something. We know from the private sector, workers' protection is expensive, and this, of course, will create additional costs for the countries and communities with which we will be faced later, at the latest in the financial compensation, or will face the countries. To sum up, it is a very useful measure that is being decided today, and we very much regret that, unfortunately, a democratization of the school system will not be possible once again on the basis of the Social Democratic Group and that the participation of pupils – we will tell the students – cannot be implemented in this way. I think the students will not understand that they are not heard to this extent.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23055	Now, Mrs. Gehrer is speaking to us. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23075	Mr President. High house! First of all, I would like to say something to Mr Rada because he called Ukraine's research quota. Maybe she's right, maybe she's not right. But one thing is true, and I have experienced this on my work visit: The universities receive 33 to 50 percent of their total budget from the state. I don't know if that's so desirable. We can happily appreciate that our universities receive a much larger sum from the state. I don't think we can do the comparisons the way you did. Ladies and gentlemen! Now on the question of the school partnership, on the development of schools and on the question of village schools: I am always amazed that the colleagues of the SPÖ do not particularly appreciate autonomy, independence and independence of the federal states for their area of responsibility. You probably want a new centralism. Everything is supposed to be located at the Federation, everything is to be centrally managed. Mr Faul, there will be no one "thinking at the eye". The countries are negotiating a financial compensation with the Minister for Finance. You know very well that the countries, in order to get their full housing support, have agreed on ratios for the school sector by saying that we want to increase efficiency. I ask you to read this. There it says: In order to achieve the stated objective, the countries shall agree to amend the establishment plan guidelines starting from the school year 2001/02 with the targeting for the primary school: 14,5 children for one teacher, primary school: ten children – a teacher, a polytechnic school: nine children – a teacher, special education: 3,2 children – a teacher. The Heads of State Dr. Häupl, Niessl, i.e. the heads of state of your group, have also agreed to this. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Niessl!]] And I think you should take responsibility for what you agreed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you ask: What are the small schools supposed to be afraid of?, then I can tell you: They should be afraid of a school ideology of SPÖ! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The chairman said that the schools should be grouped together to 300 to 500 children. It's in the paper. Read it! I want the small school sites to remain independent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I don't want five school locations to have a director together. That doesn't mean anything. A director of a small school is not exempt at all. That doesn't matter at all. That is, the small school locations are important for our communities. We have such conditions in Austria that we can still say that we have seen good conditions across Europe. We have a high level of school students, which is below the European average, we have a proportion of pupils to teachers who are under the OECD track. We spend more on education than on other countries. And so we can get the small school locations well. We just cannot have such ideas that we say we all want to put together. Ladies and gentlemen! Another thing about the school partnership: I think that school partnership is a very important basis for our school. You too have repeatedly said that the students should be taken seriously. I'm in favour of taking the students seriously. If it is a matter for young people to make a decisive contribution to the behavioural agreements, we must take this seriously. Please don't talk about the house rules. House rules have always been: Put on strings and hang wet coats. It's about behavioral agreements. It's about the questions, how do we deal with each other, how do we shape our living together. And there it is only right and cheap that we let parents talk, let teachers and teachers talk along, and let the students talk with them. I can tell you one thing: I know about the discussions of previous years, that is with the parents, that has been discussed with the teachers, with all x times, and all are for that. I think it would be a wise act if you still agreed to this proposal from the government to demonstrate that you are taking school partnership seriously and taking young people seriously as partners.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23137	Mr Ddr. has made an actual correction. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). You know the Rules of Procedure: Facts and facts. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23158	I have two points to make in order to correct. One concerns the last sentence: We shall vote in favour of this request from the Government. The fact is that this is not a government proposal but an initiative by Mr Amon. [[Abg. Lens: That's why you don't have to make any correction!]] Secondly, They said that the SPÖ president proposed the combination of schools with sizes of 300 to 500 children, students and students. [[Federal Minister Gehrer: That is also true!]] – That too is incorrect! The President of the SPÖ and the SPÖ have never proposed anything like this.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23206	Mrs Walther is now speaking. 2 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23224	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer to the Landeslehrer Service Law and its amendment. At present, the provisions on the protection of workers do not comply with the relevant EU directives, and at present head offices cannot be awarded to provisionally pragmatised national teachers. This is, of course, a disadvantage because a faster occupation is not possible. The Landeslehrer Service Law 1984 should therefore be adapted to the requirements of Community law, mainly with regard to the protection of employees. This concerns, for example, security provisions such as security officers, i.e. all the conditions that must then be addressed for the employed teachers. Preventive professionals may be determined to have medical examinations. And there may also be costs for structural adaptations. Of course, this is all necessary, and as mayor I also take note that the necessary budget for schools will, of course, increase a little – something that, on the one hand, will result in burdens on the communities and cities. On the other hand, I say: The children are worth something to us, and they should continue to be worth something to us. I also have to say that I am with the whole community recipient of a very small school, but we are very happy to receive this school also in the desired size with 60 children. [[Abg. Neugebauer: How many classes does the school have?]] - Four classes. [[Abg. Newborn: Four-class folk school?! Be heard!]] She's just meeting the conditions to be led four-class. In so far as I have to say, this is not our thing as a community, so is the statement of our chairman Gusenbauer. I think there's something that's been mixed up with the press. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23287	The next speaker is Mr Brosz. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23306	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! On the three points on the agenda, I shall be brief. First, to the Landeslehrer Service Law. We will give our consent to the protection provisions, even if we believe that it would have made sense if something more had been done about this. But what is contained in the law is certainly a proper development and also an adaptation to the EU directive. That is the second point I have to make, to the agreements on conduct. We Greens will agree to the request as already in 2001 – if I have it right now. I would say that there are several parts that are right. It is of course correct that a certain problem now arises, which Mr Niederweiser has mentioned, that behavioural agreements have just been decided in the meantime, which are then confirmed. But if you say, Mr Niederweiser, that the only requirement would have been to let these be re-adopted, then I must say that there is no other difference in content for the last time, saying: In fact, you say to yourself that it would have been useful to agree already at that time. Somehow the whole story bites in the tail. At some point it may be necessary to get through to a two-thirds matter and ultimately to agree with the pupils and to have the opportunity to influence the decision-making accordingly. I am also not sure whether such agreements have now been concluded in all schools. So: This makes sense in the future. In addition, I would like to say that what we have seen about difficult agreements is primarily a matter of primary schools. This is also the common analysis. We all know that there is no student participation in the primary schools until now; they will not exist afterwards either. I therefore believe that this is a legitimate request that we have in common. But the argument is very limited because it is only applicable to the higher schools in general. In compulsory schools it is still so that between parents and teachers. And there the question of whether to agree by 50 percent or by two-thirds majority is probably only a condition as to the content of these agreements. You have also criticized the resolution I am now submitting. It is a joint resolution by Mr Brosz, Mr Amon and Mr Rossmann with the following content: [[Quoted print version removed]] From your point of view, that's a bit bizarre. Granted, this would already be possible. Right! However, I think it is remarkable that the National Council jointly notes that there are now agreements that do not comply with the intention of the law. It is also contained in the text of the resolution – I quote – that: ‘This is, for example, the case in point. in order to avoid future sanctions against students.” – So there is a common understanding that there have been some regulations that we have not wanted and that have not taken the intention of the law. Active steps are to be taken here so that this is corrected. The school authorities should also be invited to take appropriate action in this area if this has not been the case so far. In principle, this is progress. Whether it will work in practice, you can look at that. But the clear determination of the National Council and the "Zum-Expression-Bring" that it wishes is, I think, better than nothing. This should also be achieved by means of this resolution. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the ÖVP.]] I am going over to our request, which I now no longer want to comment on, but it refers to the problematic situation as regards resources in relation to the reduction of teachers. I would also like to talk about what you, the Minister for Education, explained a few days ago, namely when you de facto made a declaration of guarantee for rural schools for small schools in rural areas. I found that quite remarkable because, as we all know, your ability to influence it is quite limited. On the one hand, the teachers are the municipalities, the municipalities, on the other hand, the teachers are financed by the national school councils. In other words, countries are assigned a certain quota from the federal government per student head, which is present in the country. They say that small schools should be preserved. There are very good reasons for this: departure; the school plays an important role for life in the village. It is only natural to say that in recent years the closures have not been made from jux and tollery, but have been the reason for this policy, personnel resources to reduce. If the countries are assigned fewer teachers, but at the same time have a condition as regards the maximum number of students, then there is either the possibility of receiving small schools with fewer pupils or of finally taking higher numbers of students in the classes in the agglomerations, or of challenging and closing what has now happened. I think that if you take this seriously, it also has the consequence that you say there must be more resources. That was the point. In recent years – as has been said – it is not because someone has felt a particular desire to close the school sites, but it has happened. Therefore, I would also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] If you are serious about it, it would be very urgent to give this request the consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23418	The two motions for resolutions, Mr Brosz, Mr President, Mr Brosz, Mr Werner Amon MBA, Mr Mares Rossmann, Mr President, are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23506	The next speaker is Mr Rada. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23525	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Unfortunately, I do not have the time to ask you, Mrs Minister, the fear of the The European Parliament has already adopted a number of amendments to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community. But I only remind you of the following: Read what has happened to ministers of social democracy in the field of school policy since 1970! On Mr Amon's comments there is another sentence. I think you do not believe what you have tried to explain to us today about the agreements on conduct. We do not agree with the SPÖ for this reason because, in fact, since the first move to decide on agreements of conduct, to which the Social Democrats did not agree, nothing has changed in essence. Behavioural agreements are currently agreed between teachers, pupils and parents and are also respected. The question is: What about sanctions if someone fails to comply with the agreements? To do that, you're not saying anything about it. You'll leave that in the dark again. And that there are sanctions that are huge, I could read to you sometime when we have a lot of time from practice. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] Everything has already been said about the Landeslehrer Service Law. However, we only partially welcome this. I therefore propose that the European Community should only implement minimum standards in this respect, and that seems to us to be too little, as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] This includes, for example, the extension of the protection of workers in workplaces to the classrooms, the clarification of liability issues et cetera.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23591	The motion for a resolution which Mr Rada has just put forward in his broad outlines was tabled in accordance with § 53 para. 4 GOG is distributed to MEPs, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23682	The next speaker is Mrs Fuhrmann. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23701	High house! At the beginning, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Now on my real topic in this discussion. Dr. Niederwieser, if you submit a SPÖ paper to the Austrian Convention under the VI Committee, which reads: School size 300 to 1,000 students, so you can't deny that there was this SPÖ proposal. Apparently it is the mentality of the SPÖ to demand things to put in space and even to have sealed with a signature in 2001. They said that the behavioural agreements were a good thing to strengthen and support democracy at school. The next day in the morning, all of this didn't go away and you pulled it back. [[Abg. May. Posch: Who said that? Don't make false claims!]] That is, two steps before and three steps back. This is the SPÖ method. I am sorry that there is no way to help students, young people, in particular, to accommodate their concerns in school and to ensure more democracy in school. I find this really embarrassing, I would like you to make a more youth-friendly policy in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23762	The amendment by Mrs Fuhrmann, drawn up by Mrs Werner Amon, MBA, Mares Rossmann, colleagues, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Muttons. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23790	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Fuhrmann, it is certain that we have a more differentiated attitude to the behavioral agreements than you do. This is also the reason why we reject them, because we want to give young people the opportunity to participate and in a community their laws in the area in which they are moving and to shape their environment. [[Abg. Neugebauer: Then you have to agree!]] The specific application points to the role of schools in the development of personality. We are talking about a new culture of agreement. The words “jointly”, “consensus”, “participation” and “cooperation” always occur again and again. But as the experiences of recent years have shown, theory and practice are very far apart. In recent years, there have been obscene regulations in individual house rules that have nothing to do with partnership at all. Measures that are humiliating or also massively intervene in the privacy of students are reported. Very often cleaning service is used as a sanction. That is, under the cover of the agreement culture, hard discipline measures are being carried out. We had a proposal which you did not agree with. We have proposed that schools should be given a year to draw up new and truly participative behavioural agreements. But, ladies and gentlemen, there is still something very essential that really goes away from me. I miss a broad debate on your part about alternatives to behavioural agreements, i.e. a debate and discussion of models that have been successfully tested in some schools for some time. It really is about the positive culture of dealing, mediation and mediation instead of punishment. That would be a way of democratization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23828	Next speaker is Mrs Sburny. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23847	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, on the behavioral agreements. I must confess, I was not here in Parliament in 2001. When I followed the debate and co-existed in the committee, what the SPÖ is now saying was that there are currently agreements of conduct that do not really deserve this name, even for me a point on which I at least wanted to think about what that means. That was also one of the reasons why we were precisely referring to these agreements, which were at all possible because the SPÖ did not agree at the time, now bring in this motion for a resolution together with the EIA, which refers precisely to the need to review and amend these behavioural agreements, which are not worthy of these names. On the other hand, I think it is right for students to be able to take part in these behavioural agreements in the future and that this request will also be adopted in this way. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The fact that the sanctions are terrible is also true of what Mr Rada has said. But the sanctions are also part of the agreements. They are in the same position, otherwise we do not know; and that is exactly what should be checked with this request. I think that makes sense in connection with our new motion for a resolution. Secondly, with regard to rural schools and rural schools. I would like to comment once again on the fact that you, Mrs Minister, are making a statement of assurance here, which I think is very positive. I think it is only interesting in so far as it actually goes against your other political line. This is classically a matter of public tasks. Agricultural schools do not return in the sense, because they are small and because they need a lot of money disproportionately, if you want to secure quality for a few children, and if you want to save the children, go many kilometers to another school. That is to say, it is a classic thing that cannot be left to the market, for example, precisely because it is not marketable, because it is not profitable. In this sense, I am particularly pleased that there is a guarantee here. I think that this should be extended to other areas, whether public services in the field of transport or certain infrastructure measures, as we have already called for in many areas. Our request also aims to ensure that additional funds needed to do so are not deducted on another side, namely in the agglomerations, but that we simply and simply stand by the fact that it costs more if we want to maintain this quality. In this sense, of course, we are for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23902	The next speaker was Mr Riepl. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23922	High house! The present government template on the State Teacher Service Law also regulates, among other things, the safety and health protection of teachers. In general part of the explanatory notes, the following two sentences can be found: Most of the employment protection measures provided for in this draft will be applied primarily to vocational schools. And: At this point, however, it should be pointed out that spaces and areas serving the education or the stay of the user – i.e. the student – are excluded. Ladies and gentlemen! Workers' protection is intended to protect them against risks at the workplace. However, the employee protection of this government template does not apply where the teacher's main place of work is in the class or in the vocational schools in the laboratories and in the workshops. However, it applies – admittedly – in the teacher's room. From this point of view, I would like to ask the Federal Minister whether this is not something curious. A protection of workers, a protection of workers, a protection of workers, a highly esteemed Mrs. Federal Minister, who applies in the teacher's room and at the toilet of the teacher, but not in the class or in the laboratory or at the workshop in vocational schools, where the teacher is most frequently present, is actually a remarkable provision. Since you have not provided any information about this, perhaps one of the following speakers in the ÖVP Group can clarify it. – Mrs Fuhrmann could not, neither could the Federal Minister. Maybe anyone can explain where the logic is. Nevertheless, we are of course in favour of health protection for teachers and will also agree to this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23972	The next speaker is Mr Principal. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23990	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The main issue of this proposal is the adoption of European regulations and directives into Austrian legislation. Mr Riepl! If minors are taught in classrooms, there are special protective provisions which also concern teachers. Furthermore, there will be the installation of safety trustees in this area, which will certainly provide the best advice and support for workers. However, this government template also deals with the ordering of directors in compulsory schools. In the future, also provisionally pragmatized state teachers will be made equal to the contract staff and can thus be entrusted to the head office if no teacher and no teacher apply for this from the definitive service relationship. This problem could be most likely to happen in small schools. These are particularly important to us. We don't want people's students to go to the pendulums already. will be – quite unlike a SPÖ paper, which has been incorporated into the Austrian Convention and provides for school sizes of at least 300 students. Perhaps the SPÖ-educator Niederweiser should think about what his proposals mean, and finally distance himself from them. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lap.]] As old mayor Dr. Helmut Zilk said in a comment in the “Kronen Zeitung” on 11 November. April 2004 on education debate in SPÖ: Forward, comrades, we're marching back! Ladies and gentlemen! No, thank you – not with us!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24044	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Dr. Brader. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24063	Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr President. In connection with the amendment of the Landeslehrer Service Law, the following seems to me to be very important: I would like to point out that these new safety professionals are to cooperate with staff representatives and occupational doctors. I welcome this change in the Landeslehrer Service Law, as well as the new behavioral agreements, because this two-thirds majority simply ensures that none of the school partners are overshadowed. This involvement also increases the identification with the agreements and thus the chance of them being respected. I believe that an active school partnership has become an important part of the quality criteria of the Austrian school. You should confess to that too. I therefore do not understand why the SPÖ does not want to support this. Behavioural agreements have the meaning of regulating and setting a broad basis for cooperation at the school in question in partnership with each other. Behavioural regulations strengthen the school partnership and are an important contribution on the path from the culture of arrangement to the culture of agreement. I think that's something we really need in school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24105	The next speaker is Mrs Felzmann. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24123	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The present Federal Law, which amends the State Teacher Service Law and the State Contracting Teacher's Act, follows, among other things, the preventive civil servants' protection that we have already mentioned. In order to ensure this protection, we also need security trustees and preventive professionals. § 113d provides that the service provider – and this is the country – has the task of ordering security trustees in sufficient number. The result is that the country concerned also has to take care of the training and the costs of these persons. I therefore declare this again, because we have seen in Vienna that it is not so clear that anyone who forgives the posts pays. I just want the example. Mr Häupl mentioned briefly, who signed a valid directive in the current financial compensation, calling for 9 640 teachers' posts. The wish of the City School Council was then 10 320 posts, that is, about 700 more. In that case, both establishment plans were decided. That's amazing. As the SPÖ will explain these two figures, it is not yet understandable to us. In principle, we have seen that much is not comprehensible in the SPÖ's education policy in general. The “Kurier” presented this once very charming and also very pointed. [[The speaker holds a caricature in the height, the abg. Dr. Gusenbauer is in front of a table on which a winding line is drawn.]] There it says: “This is your straight line from A to B!” – you see colleagues Gusenbauer here, and it is not quite clear which line the SPÖ pursues in education policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24172	Mrs Franz is now speaking. Speech time: 2 minutes. – You are speaking, Mrs Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24190	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! I have an interesting newspaper article here and would like to read to you the title: ‘Not enough, set: SPÖ blocks school law. The four-party agreement on behavioural agreements has been put into place.’ You'll be amazed: It is not an article of tomorrow’s “Kurier”, but that was three years ago, 2001. So it's an old, miserable topic. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! My question is: What do you think of school partnership? This law on school behavioural agreements not only deals with clothing regulations, but also concerns respect for one another and for health promotion or accident prevention agreements. I wonder what's bad about that! Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! If you think something of school partnership and take the youth seriously, then you must agree to this school law!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24226	The next speaker was Mrs Wolfmayr. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24245	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A short while short of the Novelle of the Landeslehrer-Dienstrechtsgesetz: We all now know that this is an adaptation to EU directives. It is intended to help to avoid accidents at work, occupational diseases and other occupational diseases through prevention and prevention. There are minimum rules that require Member States to improve existing conditions. The central point of approach is the services. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] Advice and support from internal and external professionals is needed. – This is certainly not easy. You're right, colleague Walther. The framework directives therefore also stress the need for dialogue and cooperation. In order to avoid excessive regulatory density, minimum requirements shall continue to apply under the law of the respective countries. Furthermore, provisionally pragmatized state teachers should be able to take up a head office. – This has already been the subject today and is an important measure, especially for the small and smallest schools, which we want in our country and which we certainly want to have further from the ÖVP. – You are right, Mr Brosz. Dear colleague Faul, even if you don't like it and you want to make fun of it: Amazingly, we today – I would not have expected it anymore – decide with each other a bill that adapts our legislation to the needs of modern school policy in a meaningful and practical manner, and that the mood is such that I really felt that this is not happening at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24305	The last speaker is Mr Grossruck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24343	At first I listened very attentively – not strangely – to the words of Mr Niederwieser. Do you know what he said? – We do not participate in these “fast shots” – literally. Now I have to explain what Mr Niederwieser means by "fast shot": Four years ago, matter was treated, then it was brought in unanimously, and the SPÖ was opposed, and three years later he speaks of “quick shots. ” – Mr Niederwieser, if you had lived in the time of the Neanderthals and had been hunters and collectors, then you would have been starved, for with your arrows and your “fast shots” you would never have taken a game! On the contrary, the arrows would still swirl around today without having met a target. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] That, my dear colleague, is your policy – the SPÖ policy: You make demands, then public opinion is against, and you withdraw and pretend to have been nothing. The abolition of the district headquarters, demanded by Mr Gusenbauer – never said, but documented. Locking District Army Commanders – never said, but... – Well, who did the closure care, Mr. Maier? [[Abg. May. Johann Maier: Who did this?]] [[Abg. May. Johann Maier: Straster!]] [[Call the ÖVP:Schlögl!]] – Schlögl and One thing it was! There the Minister Bartenwerg was an incarcerator against your closure care! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The comrades then call for the lockup of small schools among 300 students. Today we've heard: That was never claimed to be the case either. The witnesses say it was brought into the Convention. And then you are too cowardly to sit down and say yes, that's our policy. – It’s nothing bad, but if you represent this policy, then it’s up to you too! Mr. Niederwieser, do you know what that would mean? – 90 percent of all schools in Austria would be closed on the basis of your proposal. This is SPÖ school policy! We've heard it today. The headlines speak for us, and the Greens also agree that they are reasonable laws – and I do not say that everything where the Greens do not agree is unreasonable. I'd like to say that. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Neudeck.]] The headlines in the press: ‘Not enough, set: SPÖ blocks school law.” “A golden banana for the SPÖ.” “The SPÖ on the donkey bench.” “Pfui, order.” ‘Three SPÖ club members and a school package.’ “Will the citizen still be able to follow the bocks?” – That’s where the SPÖ is meant. That's the press's opinion on your school policy! Ladies and gentlemen! The students are lucky that the Minister of Education is called Gehrer and does not hold the office of a socialist. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The students are lucky to be involved in the discussion. You want to exclude them. You're against it today. We'll tell them that, of course. Students and young people, of course, also know who is running the more modern future policy. This is what we see in the polls on the European elections, which took place on 13 November. It will take place in June. Ladies and gentlemen! In view of this situation, I can bring my four-line obligations to you, to which I add a small two-liner. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Sad: Goodbye!]] - Listen!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24451	We cannot hear the four-liner at the Bureau. But I need to hear him, so I know if he's a suspect. So I'm asking for peace!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24472	Mr President. He's not legally suspect. [[Calls and calls between ODP and SPÖ MPs.]] Unless someone doesn't come along, maybe he'll ask for one. [[Call the SPÖ: No one cares!]] At the time, you put Mr Martin – I still remember it – as a great "Wunderwuzzi" as Zampano. Mr Swoboda has been tricked. He always said: Europe we will make Europe mature. – That was his contribution. Now you've got the mess, and I've got a four-lineer in my mind. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – Listen to me, I'll be right there! Ladies and gentlemen! Volume is not an argument! Which one of you is a teacher? In school they always say: Listen! - Okay. [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] Then you never went to school. I'm still telling him: Mr. Martin, who forgot, was a red top candidate. As Wunderwuzzi once explained he is now your Trojan’s horse. Now you only have more Swoboda – no comparison to Ursula!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24531	Mr President, I should like to make a point of order on a point of order. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Calls and calls between ODP and SPÖ MPs.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] I would like to be able to give the honourable Member the floor in peace. – 2 minutes speaking time. You know the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24575	Yeah, she's familiar with me. [[Call the ÖVP: The question is whether he will comply with it!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Are you the new top candidate?]] Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I would really like to correct my previous speaker, Mr Grossruck, in two respects. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: With a four-liner!]] First, what surprises me, he addressed a person as a “barge dwarf. ” In fact, this is incorrect. It's true that this person is called beards. [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: That was “Garden Dwarf! ” This is not an actual correction!]] Secondly, he claimed that a closure care at Gendarmerieposten and police services had been carried out under Schlögl and One. – This is actually incorrect. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Extinguishing nuke!]] It is true that now under Strasser Gendarmerieposten and District Army Commanders, ladies and gentlemen, are closed!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24675	The last speaker is Mrs Schasching. The speaking time of your group is 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24704	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Which government, as the government of the closure of all the institutions that can only be imagined, will go into history in this country, which is probably clear and does not have to be made clear again. But I'm telling you, It is the blue-black and black-blue federal government that only locks everything you think of. – She has proved this wonderful in the last three years. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl: That's not right! Do you just sense untruths?]] Mrs. Federal Minister! If you say you are afraid of social-democratic education policy, I say: Don't worry, 'cause we have a very clear line! The education system needs the resources needed to maintain quality, and our students and our researching young people deserve these resources and resources, Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] We orient ourselves to the education world champions, and these are the Finnish and other school systems, which logically have all day school forms and a not too early selection. Mrs. Federal Minister! That's our clear line. We never left them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The last thing you said was: We really take school democracy and school partnership seriously. Only that is why you cannot expect our approval of this request today. Mrs. Fuhrmann! That's where the whole crocodile tears don't help anything you've shed here. School partnership really means something different than what you have presented here today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24763	Mr Broukal. — (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on 1 minute speaking time. - No, I'm sorry. The computer has found: 0 minutes speaking time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). – That seems to be the final thing. The debate is therefore closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we reach the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Landeslehrer-Servicesgesetz and the Landescontractslehrergesetz, in 485 of the Supplements. Mr Amon, Mr Rossmann, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an amendment which refers to the rate of introduction in Article 2. There is only one request, so I will be voting on the draft law as it stands in the Committee's report, taking into account the amendment just mentioned. Since the present draft law contains constitutional provisions, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. We shall come to the vote. I now ask the ladies and gentlemen who, taking into account the amendment tabled by Mr Amon and Mr Rossmann, agree to this draft law and its title and receipt in the version of the Committee's report, to give a positive signal. – This is unanimously accepted. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to this motion at third reading to have a sign on it. – That is unanimous again. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ddr. Deweisers, colleagues and colleagues in the field of teacher protection. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – The request does not find the necessary majority, it is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 486 of the supplements. In view of the fact that this draft concerning a federal law amending the School Education Act is in accordance with Article 14(1). 10 of the Federal Constitution can only be decided in the presence of at least half of the members, I note it once. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this draft law to give an appropriate sign. – The present draft law has not been adopted with the required two-thirds majority. Thus, there is no law of the National Council within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Brosz, Mr Amon, Mr Rossmann, Mr President, on the review of agreements on behaviour. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – The request has the majority and has been accepted. (E 53.) Finally, we shall come to the vote on the request of the Committee on Education to take note of its report 487 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. . The request of the Committee on Education has the majority; it has been adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Brosz, colleagues and colleagues on the conservation of small and medium-sized schools in rural areas. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – The application does not find the majority and is therefore rejected. The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24935	I am still announcing that in today's session, independent requests 397/A to 401/A have been tabled. Questions 1781/J to 1812/J were also raised. Finally, a question by Dr Glawischnig, ladies and gentlemen, has been sent to the President of the National Council – and has already been answered. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 27. May 2004, 9 a.m. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. The session will begin with a Question Time. This meeting is closed.
