ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00074_d7e483	The 74. The meeting of the National Council was opened. As prevented, the MEPs are reported Mag. Weinzinger, Dr. Gabriela Moser, Dolinschek and Mag. Trunk. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00074_d7e514	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Decision to terminate the ordinary meeting in 2003/2004
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00074_d7e694	In agreement with all the political groups, I now put to the House the following request for a decision: "The President of the Federal Republic of Germany is asked to attend the ordinary meeting of XXII in 2003/2004. National Council legislative period at the end of the 12th century. to be declared terminated on July 2004.’ I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Reading of parts of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00074_d7e724	On the basis of a request made by 20 Members, I shall read the Official Protocol on the decision to terminate the ordinary session so that this part is already deemed approved at the end of the meeting. This will enable the immediate wording of the decision. I am now reading the Official Protocol on the Decision, which we have just adopted unanimously. 'The President, in agreement with the political groups, submits the following request (Annex B): ,The President of the Federal Republic of Germany is asked to attend the ordinary meeting of the XXII meeting in 2003/2004. National Council legislative period at the end of the 12th century. July 2004 for finished to declare.’ This amendment, Supplement B, is adopted unanimously. There is a desire according to § 51 para. 6 GOG on reading the part of the Official Protocol concerning the decision to terminate the ordinary meeting in 2003/2004 (Annex C).’ Will objections be raised against this Protocol? - That's not the case. Therefore, we log: No objections shall be raised against this part of the Official Protocol. The read part of the Official Protocol is therefore valid in accordance with § 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. Final address of the President
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00074_d7e770	Ladies and gentlemen! We have now completed the 2003/2004 meeting. We've done a lot of work. There have been a lot more days spent in the High House. I don't want to bore you with numbers now, just so much: Many plenary sessions have been held and over 130 laws have been passed. 60 percent of the laws were passed in consensus, and this trend in consensus is slightly rising. As President, I would also like to say that the climate here in the house – and I would like to thank the club members and everyone for this – is objective, parliamentary, labour-intensive and in no way characterised by conflicts and disputes. [[Abg. Mandak: Well!]] – Yes, I must say that, Mrs Mandak! I've already experienced a lot of other things here. I can remember committee boycott. I can recall the withdrawal of political groups from the Chamber; I can recall the screams here. All this is over! And I think that's a sign that's being measured. Of course there are controversies. Of course, there are – as for example on the question of deadlines – exhorting and harsh words that one feels as too hard, others as too soft. But in total, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this work Parliament can be satisfied with its work. [[Abg. Neudeck: This is like an operating instruction!]] We have conducted a large number of events here in the house. Every second day there is a public event: either a club or a high house. In addition to the traditional events on the fight against racism and against National Socialism, we have in the Reichsratsaal, commemorative day 5. May, had remarkable theater performances. In all, this is a balance sheet with which the clubs can be truly satisfied in their political work, but also the House as a whole. In addition to our work, the Austrian Convention, in which many of you are involved, held 155 meetings, both committee and plenary sessions, in this House, and all of this undistorted despite a conversion which is now entering a crucial phase. Luckily the holiday is starting now, because soon the drill drill is no longer to stop! The ramp disappears for some time as you see, and when we come back due to a special meeting – at some point such a one will take place – and everything without air conditioning, you will see that we were very diligent over the summer. I would like to thank all of you very much for working together at the Presidential Conference, which leads the house in a usual factual and consensual climate. Thank you very much! I would like to wish you, your families and your partners a relaxing and fruitful summer. But before we go apart, I would like to sing a high song on the work of our employees. We've had days with five events at the same time. For example, we brought these great events of yesterday’s day to the stage with our staff, who worked sacrificefully and skillfully. There have been no complaints as to the organization. Everything worked out. We have a really good team. [[General condolences.]] I would like to thank the Director of Parliament and his staff for this. Good for the summer! The sitting is closed.
