ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e2749	The meeting was opened. I very much welcome Mr President-in-Office Dr Heinz Fischer, who lives among us according to tradition, in our midst. [[General condolences.]] We also welcome Mr Altbundes President Dr Kurt Waldheim, who is also present at our meeting. [[New general appeal.]] The Official Protocols of 76 and 77. Meeting of 22. In September 2004, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies Dr. Stummvoll and Lacner are reported as prevented. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e2802	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e3051	Before entering the agenda, Members of Parliament, Mr Steier, colleagues, asked for urgent consideration of the self-employed amendment 455/A (E) tabled at the same time by Mr Gusenbauer, colleagues on the grant of a uniform heating aid. Under the Rules of Procedure, the request for urgent procedure will be discussed at 3 p.m. Application in accordance with § 69 para. 3 GOOD
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e3072	It is my request according to § 69 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure to take at first reading the Government's proposal concerning the Federal Finance Act 2005 together with investments, 650 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give an appropriate sign. [[The Green Members rise from their seats, as well as the SPÖ Members; the EIA and the Free Democrats remain in their seats.]] [[Intervocations with the Greens and the SPÖ towards the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] . Now we are voting on the first reading. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Do you not want to?]] [[The representatives of the ÖVP and the Freeman are now also raised from their seats.]] The request for first reading is – Mr Bösch!? – adopted unanimously. Mr Oellinger spoke on business. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: The behaviour was typical of the budget, Mr President!]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e3140	Mr President. I would like to thank the majority in the House for being willing to enter a first reading with us on the government proposal on the harmonisation of pensions. Mr President. We therefore asked for the first reading because the Government's proposal on the Pension Harmonisation Act was passed by the Federal Government within a few days and sent to Parliament. However, this government proposal on the Pension Harmonisation Act is largely negative in the opinions of various organisations which are also being sent to Parliament. That is why we are very glad that this first reading is now being held in Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e3174	Mr Oellinger, this must be a mistake. We voted earlier to take the Federal Finance Act at first reading. This is the decision of tomorrow. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Good morning!]] And now her speech comes to the Rules of Procedure. Are you making a request?
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e3205	Yes! I propose that the Government's proposal on the Pension Harmonization Act, 653 of the Supplements, be taken at first reading.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e3230	Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Molterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e3248	Good morning, Mr. Ollinger! [[New cheerfulness at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: (to the representatives of the ÖVP and the Freeman) But that can be said for you too!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the last presidency, we discussed this issue intensively and found a three-party consensus on the treatment of such important pension harmonisation matter. It is ensured that on the one hand there is a public – namely by holding a public hearing on the subject of pension harmonisation – and it ensures detailed parliamentary treatment. The public is aware of the issue of “pension harmonisation” through the intensive negotiation activity of the Federal Government for months. We therefore remain in the process of implementing this decision of the President-in-Office on Parliament's treatment and therefore reject this request which has been put forward here. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Very cynical!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e3310	Mr Cap also spoke on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e3328	Yeah, that's right. We discussed this at the Presidential Conference. On the other hand, I have to say, it is well-known that what the government has proposed here is a very unfair and unsocial pension harmonisation model. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] If there is a need – and there is, of course, also from our side – to give the greatest possible room for discussion, both in the public and in Parliament, we see no reason not to join the Greens' request and to integrate it into the plan we have found at the Presidential Conference. [[Call the ÖVP and the Freeman: Zack-zick-zack!]] [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] That is why we would support it.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e3383	Mr Klubobmann Scheibner gave a further speech on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e3401	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! After in-depth discussion, there is a proposal from three political groups on how to discuss this important pension harmonisation in Parliament – a proposal from the Austrian People's Party, the Free Party and the Social Democratic Party! This proposal does not provide for the first reading. We stand by what we have agreed in the presidency. That's why we had – and will still have the opportunity to comment on this pension harmonisation in principle. However, we do not accept this joint proposal, which was decided at the Presidential Conference.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e3435	No request for a debate was made. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Karl Oellinger for the first reading of the Pension Harmonization Act. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who join this request to be a sign of approval. [[Call the liberals – in the direction of the SPÖ delegates raised from their seats –: Zack-zick-zack!]] – This request does not include the majority. We shall now proceed to the debate on the agenda. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e3467	The debate on points 2 and 3, 6 and 7, 10 to 12 and 13 to 15 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e3492	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day-block time of 8 “Wine hours” agreed to give rise to the following speaking times: ÖVP and SPÖ each 140 minutes, Free 96 minutes and Green 104 minutes. Above that is the Hohe Haus. We shall now proceed to the vote. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal for a speaking time to give a sign on this point. – This is unanimously accepted. I also inform you that the entire budget speech will be transmitted by the ORF. In accordance with an agreement at the President's Conference, I will interrupt the meeting from 1 p.m. to 11:30 p.m. 1. Point Declaration by the Federal Minister for Finance on the Government Template on the Federal Finance Act 2005 and investments
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e3537	We're now on the 1st. Agenda item. I now give the floor to the Federal Minister for Finance to give the statement.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e3566	Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Mr President of the National Council! Mr. Bundeskanzler! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Members of the Government! High house! The draft proposal for the 2005 Federal Estimate has been prepared for you today at a time when all national and international experts agreed on an economic recovery. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser.]] After three years of economic weakness, the current year – despite a strong rise in oil prices and other risks – is marked by a strong global upturn on a broad basis. In the United States, real economic growth of over 4 percent of gross domestic product is expected for this year. In Asia, the economy is booming as never before, especially China with growth rates of more than 9 percent in an impressive economic recovery process. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] Even Japan, which has had to struggle with economic stagnation and deflation for more than a decade, is looking forward to a real economic growth of 4 percent this year again noticeably better times. The world economy is growing by 5 percent this year. This is the strongest world economic growth that has existed for about 30 years. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Is this due to the government?]] For the European Union, real economic growth of around 2.5 percent is forecast in 2005. The economic thirst of recent years is definitely also over in Europe, and there is every reason to look to the future with optimism. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Posch.]] This applies to Europe as a whole; But Austria will be better and grow stronger than most countries in Europe, because we have made an active economic policy in recent years, because we have implemented bold structural reforms, and because we are strengthening the public's available incomes and improving the quality of the location of Austria with the large tax reduction. That is why Austria is better off than most of the Union's Member States. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the time of harvest has come. Let's look forward to it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: But this is a grotesque speech!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Jarolim) Don't bother!]] In 2000, we set out to go through a comprehensive process of renewal of the country, a process of renewal that promotes the prosperity of all those who secure the future opportunities of today and future generations, create jobs and strengthen social cohesion. We have undertaken to make the geographical centre of Europe the economic centre of Europe. In our vision of Austria, the economy should be social than in the dynamic United States, and it should be more dynamic than the social market economies of the rest of Europe. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That's embarrassing what you're saying!]] [[Call of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé and counter-call of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] We are working for an Austria that is to be awarded less taxes and taxes, more available income for private households, more consumption, therefore more money for investment and jobs; less state interference and premeditation, more individual freedom, more entrepreneurship and more personal responsibility; less public administration expenditure, more resources for the country's future security: for research and development, for education, for training, for infrastructure; less state redistribution according to the principle of foundry; more social justice and financial sustainability by means of a powerful and a reliable transfer system and thinking, ladies and gentlemen, not in legislative periods, but for generations to live by it on their own example that prosperity and justice can go hand in hand. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Jarolim]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: No, no!]] That's our vision! Targets that pay off for our country! A good way for Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Hearing!]] High house! ==References== In February 2000, we consistently pursue an economic and budgetary strategy based on three pillars: firstly, on the policy of a balanced budget over the economic cycle; secondly, on a reduction in the tax and tax rate to at least 40 percent of the gross domestic product in 2010; and third, on an active growth and employment policy. On this basis, the Federal Government has implemented a number of measures in recent years, which have made Austria more powerful and dynamic, even better. [[Abg. Oils: Better!]] [[Abg. Oils: Better, yes! Stronger! Dynamic!]] Our motto is: You should not want to foresee the future, but make it possible! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] We have put public finances on a solid basis. [[Abg. Reheis holds a table in the height with the label ‘Highest Tax Load’, where each word is held in blue and one in black.]] For the first time, we have achieved practically twice a balanced budget for almost 30 years. [[Call the ÖVP: The Taferl is wrong!]] With the tax reform 2004 and 2005, we have launched the largest tax relief offensive that has ever existed in our country. The 2003 pension reform and the 2005 pension harmonisation set milestones in a forward-looking social policy. – You must not live in the past, Mr deputies, but should go into the future with us. [[in the direction of the Abg. Reheat]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Pepper holds a table with the title ‘Highest government debt’, where one word is held in blue and one in black.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] More social justice, strengthening social cohesion: This principle...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e3809	Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask you to listen to the Minister of Finance!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e3841	More social justice, strengthening social cohesion: This principle, as a red thread, draws itself through the work of this Federal Government. [[Abg. Broukal: A little more intellectual honesty!]] Never before has a federal government invested more in the future of our country: more expenditure on research, high-performance universities, more money for education, for investment projects in infrastructure. We benefit from the benefits and opportunities of the enlargement of the European Union. This ensures that new markets are opened up for Austrian companies. We've made the state more modern. There are fewer public officials and slimmer ministries today. On the contrary, the quality of the administration has become better, not worse. We said: Private is better than state. With our successful privatisation policy, we drew a conclusion among the lost, plan-economic approaches of earlier years. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Kummerer holds a table in the height with the title “Public Property Scattered! ”]] This is our balance sheet after four and a half years of new government for Austria. This is the balance of our successful renewal policy: clear economic policy beliefs, clear positions, consistent implementation. That's what you know, and you can rely on it. That is what we can be proud of, and so do we, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] High house! In recent years, Austria has become a model country for a successful economic and budgetary policy. Austria has become a country with above-average dynamics, a country of moderate but consistent change, a country of flexibility, innovation and renewal. Austria is today an economic and work location that many of us envy – we are on the trail of overcrowding, our strategy is true. In the 1990s, Austrian federal governments were criticized by international institutions. Now Austria is being praised by the International Monetary Fund, by the European Commission, by the OECD as a model for successful reform policy. In the last three years Austria has developed much better than our neighbouring countries Germany, Italy or Switzerland. [[Abg. May. Posch:... read the summary?]] In all essential economic key data, we are ahead of the average of the euro zone. [[Abg. Riepl holds a table with the title ‘Unemployed Record’.]] [[Call the ÖVP – towards SPÖ – Vienna! Vienna!]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Unemployment: With 3 244 380 employees, Austria achieved a new record value in September 2004, deputies. Therefore: Let's not make it ready! Let us look forward to the positive things in our country! Ladies and gentlemen! Record employment with 3 244 380 employees! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This is about 27,900 more employees than in September 2003, which is almost 100,000 more employees than in 1999. We have the third lowest unemployment rate within the European Union. The gross domestic product in Austria per capita – measured in purchasing power standards – is 21 per cent higher than the average of the European Union. We are behind Luxembourg, behind Denmark, behind Ireland, the excellent 4th. It's all right. Austria's inflation rate is one of the lowest in the euro area. On average, from 2000 to 2003, we had an inflation rate of 1.8 percent, and in the euro area this figure was 2.3 percent. For 2005 one of the strongest increases in real income is forecast, with 2 percent net per capita. The Austrian companies were able to increase their exports by more than 11 percent in the first half of the year. Exports will reach an absolute record value this year at €85 billion. This will also create about 50 000 new jobs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This record value also for exports is a clear confirmation of the international competitiveness of our economy. In the period between 1999 and 2003, our exports even increased by 31 percent! Ladies and gentlemen! We have thus also surpassed the former German export world champion in the trade sector. The direct investment of Austrian companies abroad also achieved a new record value at €47 billion in the previous year. Austria is already the top priority in direct investment in Slovenia and Croatia. In the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary we have excellent third place. We benefit from the opportunities of enlargement. Austria is the location for international headquarters. More than 1 000 international companies are already coordinating their activities in Central and Eastern Europe from Austria. The Vienna Stock Exchange is increasingly used as a source of equity. At the beginning of 2000, the ATX was 1 066 ‘points’. In the last days, the 2 100 “points” brand has been exceeded for the first time. That means we almost doubled. The Vienna Stock Exchange is thus the best-performing stock exchange of the developed Western industrial nations. In the same period we almost doubled, the NASDAQ lost 59 percent, the DAX 46 percent and the Japanese NIKKEI 42 percent. It is not a coincidence, ladies and gentlemen, but an idea-rich policy for the Austrian financial centre! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We now have 50,000 companies in Austria more than in 1999, i.e. more entrepreneurship in our country. Ladies and gentlemen! According to statistics from the Austrian National Bank, capital financing of these companies increased from 21.4 percent in 1999 to almost 27 percent in 2003. A really great success! In view of the insolvency statistics alone, the lack of equity is the central cause of insolvency and, vice versa, sufficient equity is, in turn, a fundamental prerequisite for the existence of exponential corporate growth and more employment. So I really think you can say: Together, ladies and gentlemen, we have achieved a great deal in a short time. I would like to thank the Austrian people, the workers and the companies. They have all brought along a not always pleasant but necessary reform course. Our excellent balance sheet, the good economic performance: This is the common harvest! And this one, ladies and gentlemen, has only begun. 2005 will be a really good year for Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] High house! But trust in politics can only be achieved if headlines and content match. [[Abg. Broukal: Right! That's a good idea.]] Therefore, our excellent achievements are reflected on the one hand in the facts and on the other hand in numerous international rankings, such as the World Competitiveness Yearbook. In 2000, Austria was number 8 in the European Union. We've started and we've said: We want to bring Austria to the top 3 of the European Union! Today I can tell you: We have already achieved this goal this year! The structural indicators identified annually under the Lisbon Strategy demonstrate: Austria is one of the three best economic and labour locations in the European Union. A great success, ladies and gentlemen, that takes international note! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In 1999, Austria, together with Portugal, had the highest budget deficit in the European Union. The budget I took over from my predecessor, Rudolf Edlinger, showed a deficit of 2.2 percent of gross domestic product – an unfunded tax reform. The deficit would have exploded to over 3 percent of gross domestic product. [[Call the ÖVP: Madness!]] The debt at the time: 66.5% of gross domestic product, the European Union's fourth highest debt ratio. This Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen... [[Abg. Reheis holds a panel that reads in blue and black: “Highest tax burden”.]] – You have the wrong Taferl, you have to show once your debts that you have incurred over 30 years – unfortunately God! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But it's interesting that you changed the color. They have written so beautiful in blue-black, obviously red is no longer in. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: You have also changed the color from blue to black!]] - It wasn't bad. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government had to assume debt of € 133 billion. We had to make annual interest payments of €7.3 billion. This means that every day the taxpayer has to pay the amount of € 53 million for repayment and interest for these debts. Every day €53 million! Austria has been strongly criticised for this budgetary policy by the European Commission, the ECOFIN Council, the International Monetary Fund and the OECD. Austria's budget policy has been called unacceptable at European level and has been rejected because it has not complied with the requirements of the European Stability and Growth Pact. This has changed fundamentally since the political turnaround in 2000. For the first time, ladies and gentlemen, we have achieved a budget surplus in 2001 for almost 30 years, and in 2002 with a very small deficit of 0.2 percent, we have reached a balanced budget. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If you compare your financial policy with ours, I must tell you: Over 30 years, Social Democratic Finance Ministers averaged 2.3 percent of budget deficits per year. We have here a quantum leap towards Better achieved and averaged 0.8 percent of deficits between 2000 and 2004. 0.8 per cent on average here, 2.3 per cent on you – this is a clear comparison, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Today, thanks to these reforms, we are among those Member States in the European Union, whose budgetary policies are recognised by the Commission and the ECOFIN Council, i.e. by the Member States of the Union. We succeeded for the first time this year after, as a final light in the Union, we had to compete with Alfred Finz that our current stability programme was praised by the Commission as one of the four best. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, I would like to say that the opposition is now criticizing us because of the deficit development in this year, i.e. 2004. Instead of 0.7 percent deficit, there is expected to be a deficit of 1.3 percent. However, if you are fair, you should also say that we have only agreed on the big tax reform after the decision of this budget and have already preferred parts of this tax reform from 2005 to 2004. Ladies and gentlemen! If you're fair, you also say that we're really good internationally. The average deficit of all Member States in economic and monetary union will be 2.7 percent this year. If you're fair, it's said you never did 1.3 percent. You haven't made such a good value in 30 years. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] And if you are fair, ladies and gentlemen, then it is said that in France in 2004 the deficits amount to 3.7 percent, in the Netherlands 3.5 percent, in Italy 3.2 percent, in Portugal 3.4 percent, in Greece 3.2 percent and even in Germany 3.6 percent. If we ask the question, ladies and gentlemen: If, for example, these countries with these much higher deficits have now achieved a reduction in unemployment, then we will say: No, that wasn't the case! In August 2004, we had 4.5 percent unemployment in Austria, 4.8% in the Netherlands, 8.5% in Italy, 9.6% in France and even 9.8% in Germany. But: 4.5 percent in Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What about the question of growth? Because of the higher deficit, have these countries achieved higher growth? – You get on it: no again! The 2 percent for Austria, as forecast by the International Monetary Fund for this year, represents 1 per cent for the Netherlands, 1.1 per cent for Italy and 1.4 per cent for France. That is to say, ladies and gentlemen, we have a lower deficit, we have higher growth, we have significantly lower unemployment – all the evidence that our stability and reform-oriented economic and budgetary policy also brings better results in growth and employment. This is also proof that we are right in our economic and budgetary policy, and a clear mission to continue this right path. That's exactly what we're going to do! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] High house! I can therefore present to you today the 2005 budget, which is also appropriate to our policy in a fresh form: transparent, comprehensible, modern. You see, we have designed completely new documents, not only from the design, but also from the content. Mr Oellinger, you are laughing now, it was the Green Group that has always called for the budget report, that we should include the sub-headings, that we should make the work aid more informative, that we should make the explanations first, and that we should include, for example, gender budgeting. We recorded the gender budgeting. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: (showing on a booklet) There are no women!]] We are very important to women's policy, ladies and gentlemen. And we're alive her! Professor At the beginning of this week, Van der Bellen asked me to report honestly to the National Council. Ladies and gentlemen! I know that for the first time in ten years, the entire budget material, all of which you see here, has been sent to Parliament a day before the budget speech and has been distributed yesterday, it has been reported to me. Honourable Member Van der Bellen! We understand this by honest and serious reporting to the House. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We continue to focus on the future of our country and its people: expenditure on education and research, expenditure on infrastructure, expenditure on security and family expenditure. We are economical everywhere where the citizen does not receive a corresponding return for his taxes. Today's Federal Estimate 2005 provides you with revenue of € 58.9 billion and expenditure of € 64 billion. Next year, we expect a Maastricht deficit of 1.9% of gross domestic product from the general government. At the same time, I can say that the average of the euro countries, the twelve countries forming economic and monetary union, will be 2.8% next year and that six eurozone countries will be over 3 percent. Average 2.8, six countries over 3, Austria at 1.9 percent of gross domestic product. The 2006 budget, ladies and gentlemen, has also been negotiated, and it was decided yesterday in the Council of Ministers. In 2006, this Maastricht deficit – from today's point of view – will fall to 1.7 percent. For 2008, we are looking for a balanced budget again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Herbs lifts a panel to the height at which it can be read: “billion grave Eurofighter”.]] Ladies and gentlemen! After the financial compensatory negotiations have not yet been completed, we have assumed that the countries should be able to achieve at least a surplus of 0.5% of the gross domestic product and that cities and communities will achieve a balanced budget. I am of course aware that the opposition will criticise the rise in this deficit, which is also its task, not at all. I do not want to say that we also need to reduce the budget deficit. The target is set for 2008 with a balanced budget. At the same time, however, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that this temporary increase in the general government deficit has not happened to us, but we take it very consciously, because we have always said that this tax reform is not being refinanced and that this temporary increase in the deficit is necessary in order to strengthen the economic upturn. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If we are now critically opposed to Alfred Finz and I being responsible for the highest deficit of our time, then the questionable is right, but at the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we have the lowest tax burden since the 1980s. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Reheis has recently raised the table to the height at which it can be read: “Highest tax burden”.]] At the same time, I say: In 30 years ahead of us federal governments have managed to reach just under 2% in the deficit. Three times in 30 years you have managed to achieve a value similar to that of our worst value. Therefore: I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that it is the right of the people, it is the duty of this Federal Government to do everything to create work now. That is exactly what we are doing with this budget, which is exactly what we are doing with this tax reform, without counter-financing: Tax down, Austria up – this is our way! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I say to you with all my conviction: We can also answer this higher deficit with a calm conscience, because this money is very well invested. Lower and medium incomes are greatly reduced, the purchasing power of the population is significantly increased, the economic and labour location is upgraded, the equity base of small and medium-sized enterprises is strengthened and investment is boosted. If you are fair and objective, you can see a very clear picture: We have countered the world economy with two economic recovery packages, with a growth and location package and with a truly very substantial tax relief. If we had not done so, ladies and gentlemen, in order to produce this context too, then we would still be budgeting roughly balanced, then in 2006 we would even have a slight budget surplus. But we've said exactly what you've always assumed that we're not. We said: The zero deficit is not really a dogma! In economically difficult times, the focus must be shifted towards more growth and more employment, but without losing sight of the policy of a balanced budget over the economic cycle. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You can be safe with one: We do not say otherwise today and tomorrow, we are not presenting you today with a tax reduction and are still tomorrow for a tax increase, but we are consciously going a well thought out way. [[Abg. Eder: Just!]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] And this way means: Less taxes and taxes, at the same time solid state finances. That pays off for you, that pays off for the population, that pays off for Austria, and then, I hope, we as government have some of it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] High house! High taxes are a sign of the welfare state old embossing. High taxes in a globalised world lead to site disadvantages and higher unemployment. From the very beginning, therefore, the Schussel I cabinet has made it clear that it is one of the most important tasks to relieve the population and the economy in a fundamental way. With the tax reform 2004/2005, the Austrian Federal Government is relinquishing its pledge of discharge. The time of the in-force pace of the tax reform could not be better chosen, tax relief will further strengthen the economic rise and further strengthen the dynamics of growth. According to estimates by the Austrian Institute of Economic Research, the tax reduction will increase real growth by 0.4 percent and 0.5 percent in the next two years. According to the Economic Research Institute, the discharge saves more than 3,000 Austrians from unemployment and creates more than 4,000 new jobs. We lower taxes and taxes in two stages by €3 billion. With this we relieve each taxpayer on average by 500 € per year. We give an average of €1 000 more in purchasing power to every household in Austria and our goal to reduce the tax rate to 40 percent of the gross domestic product by 2010 is closer in huge steps. As early as 2005, the tax rate is due to 41.7 percent of the gross domestic product, which is much better than we did in the government agreement with the 43 percent for 2006. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But in 2006, ladies and gentlemen, we are taking the really big step. We manage to reduce the tax rate to only 40.6 percent in 2006. Ladies and gentlemen, from almost 45 percent in 2001 to 40.6 percent – this is a reduction in taxes and taxes of 4 percent of gross domestic product in just six years! [[Bravorufe at the ÖVP.]] [[Lively condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you are honest, you must admit: We were not accepted by the first ambitious targets with the zero deficit, then we were not given the next ambitious target with the 40 percent tax rate in 2010. Now we achieve this goal with the 40 percent tax rate in 2010 practically four years earlier and already create 40.6 percent in 2006. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If we consider what that means for the population, then we see that in 1999 every taxpayer, every employee, every self-employed person, on average, had to work 160 days a year to pay his taxes and taxes. In 2006 it will be no longer 160 days, but 148 days. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] That is, we give people more freedom, more than two working weeks less for the state, and thus twelve days more for themselves and the family. Less taxes, more to life! The Austrian taxpayer has something of that! That makes sense! This is a great victory for more income. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Sburny: This is cynicism pure!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If I told you four years ago – I think you remember –: “A good day begins with a renovated budget,” I say to you today: [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] A good year 2005 begins with the greatest tax relief in the history of the Second Republic! [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP, as well as congratulation with the liberals.]] This discharge brings an upturn in Austria. [[Abg. Heinzl holds a black and blue paper on the top of a table that reads “Unemployment in the record. ”]] [[Abg. Oils: Don't praise the day before the evening!]] Tax reform 2004/2005 is socially fair, the discharge is balanced: €1.5 billion Redemption for the self-employed, for workers and for pensioners, additional €1.5 billion relief for businesses, for the security and strengthening of the economic and employment location Austria. [[Abg. Sburny: This is an incredible untruth!]] A particularly central concern of this tax reform is the smaller and medium incomes, the single earners and the single parents, the families. Around two thirds of the tax relief is payable on income tax, which amounts to annual gross income of between € 10 000 and € 25 000. Furthermore, this Federal Government has increased the negative tax from €60 million to €90 million. This is a measure that is particularly effective in supporting vulnerable populations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would also like to give you some examples of this: A single mother with two children and a monthly gross income of 1 300 € had to pay 862 € in taxes per year. ==References== In January 2005 this single parent will no longer pay a tax, but 14 € directly as a transfer, when negative tax is paid by the financial office. This is a tax improvement for this single mother with two children by 876 € per year. Less taxes, more to life! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] An employee with a monthly gross income of €1500 has so far had a tax burden of €1 855. ==References== In January 2005, its tax burden will only be 1 410 €. The tax savings are at least €445 per year. A pensioner, a pensioner, standing alone, with a monthly gross income of 1 000 €, has so far paid 788 € in taxes. ==References== January 2005 this burden is reduced from € 788 to € 144. This is a discharge of 644 €. Ladies and gentlemen! We also continue our family-friendly policy. We have introduced child supplements to the single-earner and single-earner discount amount and significantly increased the amount of earnings at the single-earner discount. This relieves families by € 230 million. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Everyone benefits from this tax reform! It benefits the entire population, benefits workers, self-employed, employed, pensioners, the wide range of small and medium-sized enterprises as well as large industrial enterprises. 2.6 million employees in Austria are relieved with €990 million. 900 000 single-earners, including 100,000 single-parents, are relieved with an additional € 230 million. 660 000 taxpayers will be relieved with an additional €20 million. 1 050 000 pensioners are relieved with € 450 million. 130 000 farmers are relieved with €50 million. 100 000 individual companies and personal companies, i.e. small and medium-sized enterprises in our country, are charged € 400 million. 100 000 GesmbHs and stock companies, most of which are small and medium-sized enterprises, are relieved of €1.1 billion. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] That is, less taxes and more money for private consumption. That means higher real income. There will be more money for the Austrians for life 2 per cent in 2005 per capita. This means an important boost for families, for the economy, more investment, more growth and more employment. A very good reform at the right time! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: A little too thick applied!]] High house! The Austrian economy is facing a very strong international competitive pressure. 2004 is also a special year because the enlargement of the European Union by ten new Member States has been implemented. This brings us many opportunities and opportunities that we also want to use, but it also brings us increased competition. The global economy is networked, enormously fast-lived and increasingly globalised. You can be against globalisation, you can be for globalisation, but, ladies and gentlemen, globalisation has no telephone number, it has no office, it has no address where you can complain, it simply takes place whether we want it or not! That is why we must do everything we can to ensure that our economy can benefit from the opportunities and benefits of this globalisation. Austria is characterised by excellent entrepreneurship, the excellent level of qualification of our workforce, the quality of infrastructure and security in our country. However, the last major reforms in corporate taxation are already going back to 1989 and 1993. Since then, many other countries have very much reduced their corporate taxes. Slovakia, for example, has opted for a flat tax with a tax rate of 19 percent. Hungary charges corporate profits of 16 percent, Poland with 19 percent, Slovenia with 20 percent, Switzerland with 24 percent. Therefore, the Austrian Federal Government was faced with a very clear decision-making situation. The question was: Do we want to be active or do we want to be passive? Do we want to act and be proactive or do we want to wait for the damage to occur and then react? [[Abg. Oillinger: Is your policy a yogurt?]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Kummerer keeps a panel in height that reads in black and blue “public property” in “public property”.]] If we don't do anything, ladies and gentlemen, then – we knew exactly that – companies will leave Austria, then foreign investment will take their way around Austria. And I'll tell you: A policy that does not know what it wants, a policy that waits for the damage to occur, that is not a policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] For this reason we were always clear, there can only be an offensive way here – a way that the investors who should surprise the markets should be. Clear and substantial improvements for the economic and work location, so that the international flashlight is directed to Austria. A quantum leap for the economic and work location Austria had to be our goal. I am convinced that we have also achieved this objective, namely through three steps: firstly, by significantly reducing the nominal corporate tax rate from 34 percent in one step to 25 percent from 1st. January 2005; second, by introducing the preferential taxation of untapped profits for individual companies and personal companies; Profits that remain in the company have been made since the 1st century. It was the first European group tax system to be introduced in 2004 and the first European group tax to be taxed. January 2005, which makes Austria a particularly interesting location for decision-making centres of international companies. These three steps, corporate tax reduction, preferential taxation of non-profits and group taxation, are very important tax advantages that clearly speak for Austria. The strong foreign interest confirmed this even before the in-force step of tax reform. We had already around 1,780 first contacts with potential investors in the period January to September, a plus of 17 percent compared to the annual average in 2003. At the Austrian Business Agency, 384 investment projects are currently at the negotiating stage, which is an increase of 25 percent compared to the previous year. And of these investment projects, 157 are in turn attributable to Germany, which is a plus of 64 percent. We send very clear signals with our tax reform, we carry it outside. We are also going to these other countries. We say: Investors, come to Austria! You are to a great extent welcome to us. Make your headquarters in Austria! Edit the Eastern European markets from Austria! Austria is the geographical centre of Europe, but we also make Austria the economic centre of Europe! Ladies and gentlemen! [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The international media coverage and studies of international tax experts also confirm how well we are doing with this reform of corporate taxation. A recent study by KPMG compares the actual total tax burden in Austria with that in our Eastern European neighbouring countries and concludes that, taking into account the different tax bases, Austria has picked up or even overtaken these states in the attractiveness of corporate taxes! The respected German “FAZ” writes “Tax Reform Agitates Austria’s ATX”. The internationally highly respected “Financial Times Germany” quotes experts with assessments such as “This is a big step forward” or “a real quantum leap” or “This is a sensation”. The important “Neue Zürcher Zeitung” writes of a“ great throw. ” More importantly, ladies and gentlemen: Many companies have already made the right decisions for their stay in Austria, for investments in our country or even for the relocation of their business activities to Austria. A few examples are: At the beginning of July, the BMW Group Austria launched the seventh and so far largest expansion stage. Investment costs: €500 million. Sandoz, part of the Novartis Group, invests € 148 million in Tirol at the Schattenau site, creates 50 new jobs and increases the costs for research and development to € 133 million. Opel Austria Powertrain opened the new six-speed transmission plant in Vienna Aspern at the end of June. Investment costs: 380 million €, jobs for 800 employees. Infineon, based in Villach, began the construction of the new research center for automotive and industrial electronics in June. High-quality jobs for 270 employees. Escada has spent an investment cost of €20 million on a new logistics centre with jobs for 100 to 120 new employees. And many small and medium-sized enterprises, ladies and gentlemen, have made investment decisions and go into the future with a greater optimism. That only confirms us once again: There is no right economic policy, there is no left-wing economic policy, there is only a right economic policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: And a wrong one!]] This tax reform is the milestone in our right and exemplary Austrian economic and location policy. This tax reform is the success dividend for our population. This tax reform is the turbo for more growth and more employment. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Please, Grace!]] That's good for the people in our country, that's good for Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Reheis holds a panel that is read in black and blue “Highest Tax Load”.]] High house! The 2005 Federal Estimate sets the priorities where the future of our country is about the future of the population. Targeted priorities, investment in the future on the one hand, government tasks and expenditure reforms on the other: This is the essence of a modern, modern budgetary policy. Our goal is a competitive, innovative, knowledge-based economic location in Austria. Of course, we need well-trained, highly qualified workers. We need experts, we need researchers in businesses, universities, research institutions. [[Abg. Oillingers: universities, exactly!]] Mrs Bundesminister Elisabeth Gehrer, Mr Hubert Gorbach and Mr. State Secretary Eduard Mainoni have accepted this challenge, pave the way to an educational, research and knowledge location in Austria, because we know how necessary the training needed for all the citizens of this country. Then: Learning, ladies and gentlemen, is like rowing against the electricity. As soon as you stop, you drive back. It was so important, therefore, that with the establishment of the National Foundation for Research, Technology and Development, we could set a milestone in Austrian research policy that we have created important incentives for companies to invest more in research and development with the research premium and the research allowance. In total, over the period 2004 to 2006 this will add €1.2 billion, beyond the allocations of the resort chapter available for research and development. That is, we have significantly increased these resources. At the same time, however, we have created clear and transparent structures for research and innovation funding. With the establishment of the Research Funding Society, there is for the first time a single roof for research funding in Austria. The most recent statistics in Austria also show: Austria has picked up enormously because of the numerous initiatives we have launched in recent years. We increased the total research expenditure from 2000 to 2004 by 47 percent over the period 1995 to 1999. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Ten years ago, the research rate was around 1.5 percent of GDP. Research expenditure will reach almost 2.3 percent of gross domestic product this year. We are already in the fifth place within the European Union. We have taken a new approach to research funding. We went a new way in training, in the universities. With the university reform, our universities become independent, efficient and flexible actors in Europe. We have thus created the conditions for international standards in research and teaching, have developed a performance-oriented, open attitude, which is also to be underlined by the establishment of an elite university – an elite university that is designed to produce special qualities and special achievements. We have also set a focus at the technical universities by extending the courses to around 33 000 by 2009. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In total, ladies and gentlemen, we stand at over €9 billion in budget expenditure on education, making it 14 percent of the total budget. On the basis of previous year's debates with Professor Van der Bellen, I can say: Without the extension of the balance sheet, Professor Van der Bellen, for this amount of just over €9 billion contains €647 million of the balance sheet extension for university offices; therefore, without balance sheet extension, slightly more than €8.4 billion, which means additional €120 million compared to the last estimate in 2004. So this is a huge investment in our youth, in the location, in the future. That can really be seen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] More money for research, more money for education, for training, more money for infrastructure. We thus strengthen the economic location, thus strengthening competitiveness. This federal government is a central concern for the development of rail and road – not least in the context of the enlargement of the European Union. In the context of the Infrastructure Plan, a total of over €30 billion will be allocated to road and rail for the period 2000 to 2010, in these ten years. We increased investment in this area by 32 percent between 2000 and 2004, in turn compared to 1995 and 1999. We are thus investing in the future of the country. We create conditions for more growth, more employment, more quality of life, better environmental conditions. I would like to say a thank you for the great commitment of Hubert Gorbach and Helmut Kukacka, even as far as the ÖBB reform is concerned, where we have achieved a really great success. [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] High house! One of the most important objectives of our economic policy is full employment. [[Abg. Riepl keeps a table up to the height, which is read in the black and blue writing “Unemployed. ”]] Work and income, these are the most effective means of combating poverty and social exclusion. This Federal Government – above all Federal Minister Martin Bartenstein – has implemented a number of projects together with the social partners in recent years to improve the functioning of the Austrian labour market. An active labour market policy has been forced, the efficiency of employment placements has been increased, the early warning system has developed in the event of terminations, individual care plans have been drawn up for each job-seekers, and a skills offensive for younger and older unemployed people has been promoted. In international comparison, we are excellent with labour market data. We have the lowest unemployment rate throughout the European Union. With 3 244 380 employees, we have more employees than ever before. Still unemployment is rising, we do not want to beautify it, but, ladies and gentlemen, in September there were 4 per cent fewer unemployed aged 15 to 24, 8.1 per cent less unemployed in over 50 years of age and 6.1 per cent less long-term unemployed. Domestic unemployment has fallen by 1 percent. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Many countries, ladies and gentlemen, envy us for this excellent labour market data. I mean, it's really not natural for you to have the third lowest unemployment rate and the second lowest youth unemployment in difficult times. That is why I would like to thank Martin Bartenstein very much for this great commitment to more employment. Record employment: 100 000 jobs more than 1999. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But just as clear, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress: We certainly are not satisfied with the reach! We will not find ourselves with unemployment anywhere! We fight for every single job because we know that work makes sense. Where the work is missing, there is frustration and despair. We want to make it hope and confidence. That's why the most important thing now is: Work! We will be able to do so with the upsurge through discharge. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! They question our labour market policy. – In the Federal estimates 2005 we planned €1.5 billion for active and activating labour market policies. This is almost twice as much as you used for active labour market policy in 1999. [[Abg. Oils: Not us!]] We invest a total of €4.5 billion in the labour market in 2005. This federal government allows attractive conditions for a better labour market, because we know that only successful and innovative companies can create jobs. But there, ladies and gentlemen, where it is possible, we ourselves take action and become active for our youth. Our Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel has launched an apprenticeship offensive. 800 apprentices will receive an apprenticeship in the Federal Administration next year until the private labour market can give them a perspective. The Federal Chancellor has negotiated that the countries and municipalities will create another 1 000 teaching places. That means, ladies and gentlemen: 1 800 more courses! We do not manage unemployment, on the contrary: Unemployment is fought very specifically! And that gives us reason to be optimistic. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] High house! Of course, an active role in foreign policy strengthens Austria's reputation with its international partners, and an active role benefits companies. Foreign policy is not least local policy. The excellent export data of recent years, especially to our new EU partner countries, is the best proof of this. This Federal Government stands for an active foreign policy. It takes its international obligations seriously and makes available the necessary budget resources. The 2005 Federal Estimate provides for further increases in expenditure on development cooperation, so that we will reach the target of 0.33 percent of gross domestic product in 2006. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] At this point, I can express my warm congratulations to you, dear Benita, for the new challenge. It is an award for you and for Austria that you will be able to shape the Union's foreign policy in the next few years. I think your internationally well-respected hearing was an excellent introduction to this new task. - Good, dear Benita! – By the way, I may mention: [[As a result of this, the European Parliament has adopted a number of amendments to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, namely the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty on European Union, and the Treaty on European Union on European Union and the Treaty on European Union on European ……]] Benita has negotiated the budgets as if she were foreign minister in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Our programme for Austria is to secure the future. Future security means that we are already thinking in the morning of all the decisions we make today. Austria is a country with high quality of life, a country with an intact environment and agriculture. Together with Federal Minister Josef Pröll, we want to ensure that this remains the same in the future. We want future generations to find a ‘life-worthy’ country. We can ensure the consistent implementation of the 3-billion-€ agricultural package with the Federal Estimate 2005. The budget is sufficient to co-finance the Community programmes so that we can make full use of all EU budget funding. With the support of the biodiesel, the costs for the farmers are falling. The resources shall be reduced. A promise made a long time ago will be fulfilled: Agriculture is getting even more competitive! We provide €30 million in addition to achieving the Kyoto target. Austria will also use renewable energy sources for eco electricity generation in the coming years. Steering measures are intended to promote the increased use of diesel particle filters. The addition of biogenic fuels is favoured by a further ecologisation of the mineral oil tax and thus cheaper. That is to say, we are also putting a sign here to reduce the dependence on fossil energy sources and are also preparing Austria for the future in this area. – A further proof, ladies and gentlemen, that we take our responsibility for Austria seriously and that it is not only about today, but also about the morning and about the day after tomorrow. Thank you, Sepp Pröll! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Just a few more speech bubbles!]] Our parents and grandparents have made Austria a rich country – a country where internal cohesion and solidarity are important. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] This federal government is a major concern for social justice. A policy that creates social benefits with undiscovered checks on the future and shifts funding through the burden of the next generations has nothing to do with social justice. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Our aim is therefore to create fairness between generations and better security for the really needy and disabled. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] We want socially compatible growth, better opportunities for young people and more support for the family. This will strengthen social responsibility and social cohesion in our country. We have taken a new path with the introduction of the childcare allowance. We have further expanded family support, we have improved the compatibility of family and work. In 2005 family-related benefits from the Federal Budget will increase to € 5.3 billion. Austria remains the most family-friendly country in the world. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] There has never been a federal government that has made more for people and disabilities in Austria than this Federal Government. For us, the professional and social integration of disabled people is a central concern. It is important to us to raise awareness of the concerns of people with disabilities. We want all people in this country to have fair opportunities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Despite pension reform 2003 and pension harmonisation 2005, the Federal Estimate 2005 estimated €734 million more for pension payments than this year. Pension benefits continue to rise very strongly, estimated at € 734 million more. This increase shows how important the reform of the pension system must be to us, how important it is to reduce the current expenditure dynamics. However, he also shows that social responsibility for this federal government is not only a political keyword but also a concrete concern in the implementation of its reforms. Ladies and gentlemen! The last point in this context: There has been no increase in the care allowance since 1995. We have already agreed in the Government Agreement to valorise the care allowance. – In this respect, we also keep our word: We have a two-percent valorization with the 1st. It is planned in January 2005. Therefore, in the Federal Estimate 2005 we make €40 million more available for the financing of the Federal Care Fund. So in total, ladies and gentlemen: In the Federal Estimate 2005 no less than €19.5 billion – more than 30 percent of total budget expenditure – is earmarked for social benefits. A better proof of the social conscience of this federal government, a better proof of the successful work of Federal Minister Herbert Haupt and Mrs. State Secretary Ursula Haubner, is probably not available. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That's embarrassing, this speech!]] High house! Austria has one of the best state pension systems in the world – but also one of the most expensive! With about 15 percent of the gross domestic product, Austria has the highest pension expenditure within the European Union. In only a few Member States, the employment rate of over 55 year olds is lower than in Austria. In just a few Member States, entry into working life is made later than with us. The number of older people is increasing, the number of younger people is decreasing. An increasing number of pensioners are required to finance fewer and fewer workers. It is therefore perfectly obvious that such a system, in which the gap between contributions and benefits is increasing, in which an ever-increasing number of pensioners need to be financed by an ever smaller number of persons in employment cannot function in the long run. It's about maintaining the generation contract. It is about ending special rights and privileges. It is a fair burden distribution between generations. Ladies and gentlemen! We want to be able to tell the population with good conscience that our state pension system can be financed in the long term; a state pension system, which can also be expected by young people today to receive a fair and adequate pension in old age. Our aim, however, is also not to overreact to any one with the necessary reforms and to ensure fair and socially acceptable adjustment costs. People must have the opportunity to adapt to the changed living conditions. The very ambitious response to these high objectives is the harmonisation of pension systems. – A century reform, ladies and gentlemen! No federal government has been awaiting this reform for decades, but this cabinet Schüssel II also makes the seemingly impossible possible. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Modesty is a grace!]] Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel, Hubert Gorbach, Ursula Haubner, Herbert Haupt, Martin Bartenstein, Herbert Scheibner, Willi Molterer, the presidents of the social partners have negotiated for a year. The Federal Government has done everything possible to reach a broad consensus across the party borders. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: It's no longer embarrassing to overwhelm what you're talking about here!]] The result is a real social policy milestone. A big throw! The harmonization of pension systems is a matter for the Council of Ministers yesterday. She's fair, she's solid, she's sustainable, she's just! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It is fair because the consensus of all the social partners on the basic formula: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Jarolim]] 45 years of insurance are in 65. Year of life to a pension of 80 percent of the average living income...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e4662	This does not apply to you, Mr Minister, to Mr Jarolim.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e4695	It is fair because the consensus of all the social partners on the basic formula: 45 years of insurance are in 65. A pension of 80 per cent of the average average living income is taken into account, because a uniform increase of 1.78 per cent is applied because the consumer price index is used as the basis for the increase in the pension, because there is a single maximum contribution basis for all, because the up-to-date of acquired claims is achieved with the increase in the contribution base; this alone means a 1 to 1.5 per cent higher appreciation of the amounts paid per year than before. – This is an improvement, ladies and gentlemen, and not a deterioration associated with this harmonisation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This harmonised system is transparent and flexible at the same time because a pension account is set up for each insured person because a pension corridor from 62 to 68 years has been introduced for those who want or need to deviate from the age of 65. It is sustainable because the performance is guaranteed for identified claims because a sustainability factor ensures the guarantee of financial viability. It is social, because the unemployment period is counted for the pension, because heavy work is particularly taken into account because harmonisation applies only to all under 50s, but on the other hand it does not completely eliminate the burden of reform on young people, because the cover of possible losses is reduced from 10 to 5 percent, because higher pensions contribute in solidarity by adapting them to a fixed amount, and because child rearing times as well as presence and civil service and hospice care are counted with a much higher basis of contribution, instead of as previously at 640 € per month, with 1 350 € in the future. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: No! 1 100 €! Wrong numbers!]] Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== In January 2005 this uniform pension right will apply to all: Fair, solid, sustainable and just, no privileges, no special rights, a equal pension right for all, with benefits for women, for the hard workers, for long-term insured persons! A really big throw that will find a lot of international recognition. We invite you to: Carriers All this century work with you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] High house! Unfortunately, in recent years the world has been shaken by terrible terrorist attacks. Especially in uncertain times, the Federal Government wants to send clear signals: Austria is a safe country, security is a very important value for us. Therefore, we also set clear priorities for even more security in Austria in the Federal Preview 2005. We spend around € 4.7 billion on internal and external security as well as on justice. Important reform projects should make our security organisations even more powerful. Lord-in-Office Helmut Zilk was at the request of Minister of Defense Günther Platter as regards the management of the Bundesheerreform-Commission. The results of this Federal Government Reform Commission are available. Our federal army will be more modern, the comprehensive security of our country will be guaranteed even better. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Kummerer holds a plate with the title “Million Grab Eurofighter”.]] Interior Minister Ernst Strasser is driving forward the basic executive reform, police, gendarmerie and customs guard are brought together to an executive guard, “Team 04”. We want less administration, less management structures, more security for the population. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Minister of Justice Karin Miklauch develops a major judicial reform to ensure both jurisdiction and enforcement of the requirements of the 21st century. ==References====External links== That is why we thank these three ministers for their increased security in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A few other points of focus of the federal budget were mentioned very briefly: Austria has one of the best health systems in the world; at EU level, we even take second place behind Finland. If we want our health system to be among the best in the world in the future, we must ensure its financial viability. This is where Mrs Health Minister Maria Rauch-Kallat has already clearly outlined the way. We must make the benefits and costs of our health system transparent, patients must be at the heart of the reform, and the prevention must be given a new priority. Quality rather than quantity is the credo in administrative reform. Fewer staff, more customer and service orientation, e-government, financial online, electronic act, the establishment of a accounting agency, the reform of financial management are exemplary for a slim and performance-oriented administration. From the year 2000 to the present, the number of staff employed by the Federal Government could be reduced by no less than 14 000. The sum of all administrative reform measures made savings of €1.5 billion. Alfred Finz has been particularly committed to this. I would also like to thank you very much, Alfred, for negotiating the sixth and seventh budgets together. [[Abg. Oellinger: But he is praised today!]] I would like to thank you and the staff of the Ministry of Finance for this very, very positive, very good cooperation. The results can be seen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Privatizations, ladies and gentlemen! We've started and we've said: Private is better than the state, out of deep conviction. We have launched a large privatisation initiative. We took over €6.3 billion in the ÖIAG debt in 2000. In comparison to this, there was an asset of €5 billion. That means we took a cover, a minus of €1.3 billion. [[Abg. Oillingers: Don't say anything to ÖIAG!]] Now, I would like to say, we have the following situation: [[Abg. Oils: Could become a problem!]] €1.7 billion in debt, a assets of €5.7 billion – that is, a cover of €4 billion! Again: We have taken over a minus of €1.3 billion, now there is a plus of €4 billion available. That is, we have assets, we have created value of €5.3 billion for the taxpayer. – This is a renovation of the ÖIAG, these are black numbers, the first time in 30 years. This is a very successful privatisation policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Kummerer keeps a plate with the title “Public Property Swallowed” in height.]] Sports. – State Secretary Karl Schweitzer has achieved a particularly good negotiating result. From 2005 onwards, the Federal Government will provide 3 per cent of the sales of the Austrian lottery GesmbH, at least € 40 million per year for the special sports promotion. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] – Dear Karl Schweitzer, I hope it is enough for the European champion at the EURO. Art and cultural nation. – Austria is rightly a world famous art and culture nation. State Secretary Franz Morak has successfully negotiated and achieved that we provide €224.5 million for art in the Federal estimates in 2005, which is also important for the 2005 anniversary year: 50 years of State Treaty, 60 years of Second Republic, 10 years of membership of the European Union. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Let me conclude, ladies and gentlemen. High house! We have achieved a lot in recent years. Our renewal programme has made Austria more competitive and sustainable, modern and internationally successful. We have brought a new freedom and a new dynamic to this country, a dynamic that is necessary in order to be able to come first in international competition. We want to build on this, which is the basis for our economic and financial policy in the coming years. Our objective, ladies and gentlemen, is a balanced budget over the economic cycle, zero deficit 2008, fewer debt, a lower interest rate service. In the last 50 years, no one has been able to reduce the tax performance as much as this Federal Government under the leadership of Wolfgang Schüssel. More than 4 per cent of GDP less taxes and taxes and yet stable state finances, better than the European Union, is an extraordinary achievement! We know what we want! Others want to raise taxes – we lower taxes! And that's good, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Our goal is to invest in the future, in research, in training, in infrastructure. We thus strengthen the economic location, thus strengthening our competitiveness. Our goal is a powerful, service-oriented public sector, less regulation, less bureaucracy, more flexible environment, more competition. In doing so, we are promoting private entrepreneurship, creating new jobs. Our goal is better opportunities for young people, for families, for the more socially vulnerable. Improving social cohesion, ensuring greater social justice in our country is one of the central concerns of this Federal Government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are living at a time of change, of upheavals, of rapid change: the increasing globalisation of markets, of rapid technological developments, of demographic shift. We take these challenges offensively to ensure prosperity and income not only for today's generations, but also for future generations. Austria is the country to work! Austria is the country to invest! Austria is the country to life! And those among you who should have been waiting for an advertising announcement so far, I must be disappointed today, because this tax reduction is the best advertising for myself. [[Abg. Oils: That was really the best advertising!]] Therefore: Resurrected by discharge! This proposal makes Austria even better, please give it your consent. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e4898	I would like to thank the Federal Minister for his statement. I inform the House that all the documents relating to the budget were received by the National Council at 2 p.m. yesterday. They were distributed between 15 and 16 o'clock to the opposition and between 16 and 17 o'clock to the government parties. All documents on the Internet have been available since midnight. That's the first time we've got this. successful. I would like to thank the officials for this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The first reading of the Federal Financial Act will take place tomorrow. 2. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (560 e.g._Other Organiser Amendment to the Convention establishing the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (646, e.g.) 3rd. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (546, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Stock Exchange Act and the Securities Supervisory Act (647 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e4950	We are now continuing with Agenda items 2 and 3, on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Matznetter is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Its voluntary time limit is 8 minutes. Mr Matznetter, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e4983	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! We have two agenda items to deal with today. The first concerns the extension of the EBRD's possibilities for financing in Mongolia. As we have already explained in the Financial Committee, we welcome the expansion of the business areas for the EBRD, since it has already done major tasks in the past for structural renewal after 1989 in Central and Eastern Europe. [[Members of the Federal Government are in the process of leaving the government bank and talking to each other.]] Mr President. Perhaps you could leave the Federal Government out of the way, then the parliamentarians could deal with the agenda items here.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e5017	I ask everyone to take the places and lower the general level of noise. Above all, I would also ask to stop the “tumble ” at the government bank. The speaker is speaking!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e5035	Mr President. The Members want to do their job. – The government bank is emptying. All right, that's what we can do with the subject. [[Abg. Neudeck: We have 16 agenda items today and not 2!]] In the past, the EBRD has had some problems with its indwelling organization, but it has to be said that the bank has made a very, very neat gesture in recent years. However, enlargement also means, as far as the environment of Europe's economic activity is concerned, towards the states of the former Soviet Union and now also to Mongolia, that we think in greater contexts, including the reconstruction of these countries, and make some progress. My group will therefore vote in favour of this amendment and enlargement. But now on the more important point, on the new provisions on insider trade. Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to remind you that Austrian stock exchange reality does not have a very good reputation for preventing insider trade. I should like to remind you that it was only last year that the Director-General was able to escape one of the largest companies in that country in the context of an out-of-court settlement of a conviction for insider trade. At the same time, however, I should like to remind you that the FMA, which was set up on the basis of a four-party agreement a few years ago, even with regard to some of the things taking place on the stock exchange today, is out of order to take essential steps to improve. What do I mean by that? – An example: In the field of Telekom Austria a number of employees received a very, very high success premium. This was dependent on the achievement of a certain course on the Vienna Stock Exchange, at a very precisely defined time. And just then, there was an order for purchase from an Austrian bank, by which the price was raised exactly to the extent that these premiums were due. What can the FMA do? – The FMA tried to immediately initiate surveys in this respect, but ended with the finding: We can't actually raise who really gave this purchase order! Now it would have been up to the Federal Government to use this proposal to ensure that the toothless authority becomes an authority that can actually do something. One could have taken an example of regulations and institutions in other countries, including the powers and authority of the SEC in the USA, for example. I do not understand, however, why the Committee itself did a further compensation for the government template on which it had been agreed. The criminal framework has been reduced, and it has not been taken into account in all that the Federal Government had provided, namely a strengthening of the provisions. I have explained in detail in the Committee that the precise definition of the individual circumstances, where the directive was simply written down, is in fact restricting the possibility of persecuting the perpetrators rather than extending them. It was the Federal Ministry of Justice – I know, Mr Miklauch was not yet responsible – which, in his opinion on the project of insider trade, expressly represented this kind of law enforcement. The Federal Ministry of Justice expressly writes in its opinion – Ms Minister for Justice, that was the number of business 241001/3-3/33/5/04 – that in several respects the literal adoption of the EU Directive appears to be problematic. The directive necessarily has a certain degree of uncertainty. A literal adoption of the provisions of a Directive translates this indeterminateness into national law. Such a procedure, which is already in conflict with the requirement of sufficient determination in ordinary administrative provisions, is all the more worrying in the case of criminal law standards. Ladies and gentlemen! Why don't you listen to the Ministry of Justice? Why are you not prepared to show reason on this point and to include the new provisions in criminal law where they belong? There are two sentences in the Criminal Code, no precise casuistic definitions. And there are other measures that lead to an intensification in the field of stock exchange offences – and not a compensation like this law. Here only ammunition is delivered so that lawyers who have enriched themselves or third parties can box out. That cannot be the meaning of the law, and therefore we will not agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e5077	Now, Mr Magz, I would like to say a few words about Mr Magz. Ikrath. Requested time: 5 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e5095	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! Dear colleagues! I would now like to continue with regard to the amendment of the Stock Exchange Act and the Securities Supervision Act, the debate which we have already held in the Financial Committee with colleagues Matznetter. From our point of view, this law, as we have now done, has not only been developed in an exemplary way, namely in an intensive dialogue with experts and experts, but it is also ideally suited to prevent market abuse, insider trade, market manipulation in the future, or – in individual cases – where this fails to pursue and punish massively and harshly. This is necessary because both the Federal Government and the representatives of the government parties are committed to ensuring the smooth functioning of the Austrian capital market and to strengthening public confidence, investor confidence in the stock exchange, not only in the capital markets, but also further. The fact that timing is perfect for this also shows the increased confidence of investors in securities in Austria, especially in shares. In the last three-quarters of the year, the percentage of those who can imagine investing in shares rose from 10 to at least 12 percent of the population. That means commitment to us, but it also means that this law comes at the right time, i.e. the right timing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] As far as the content is concerned, Mr Matznetter gave an extremely shortened presentation. I would like to make that more clear. With this law, we have not only substantially expanded and clarified the practice of the abuse of inside information – a crime that is in itself difficult to grasp. This case-law is now so precise that legal certainty is linked to it. This too is a command that we have to follow, especially when it comes to severe sanctions that I will still refer to. We have extended the situation of the abuse of inside information to private trade, i.e. a very substantial extension of this situation, and we have, in particular, enabled financial market surveillance, at its own request, to participate in criminal proceedings in the future, to be sufficiently involved and to bring in their expertise. That is to say, it is the opposite of what Mr Matznetter said, the case and the truth. We have not given any teeth to financial market supervision, but very pointed teeth – this is also recognized by the FMA. I do not know why Mr Matznetter simply ignored this in committee and today. Let me now come to the level of punishment. In the event of damage or profit, we have expanded the level of punishment for the primary insider from over €50,000 to five years, from two years to five years in the future. We have thus increased the penalty by more than 100 percent and have no longer provided for alternative fines. It will no longer be possible to resolve a division, an out-of-court case. In this way, we are in the Austrian criminal law system exactly where, according to proportionality, such an act exists with its legal consequences, and, more importantly, because it is international markets – we are high in European comparison – I would like to say this briefly. In Germany, five years, but also fines, in Switzerland three years and fines, in France, Great Britain seven years, but also fines are possible there. So you can also buy yourself out there when I say it overtly. We are therefore at the top of our penal framework with the intensification of it. That was a concern for us. We're on it. If we do not now find the opposition's approval, we will do so. We are acting anyway, we are strengthening confidence in the capital markets! And if the Minister of Finance has said: A good day begins with a good budget!, then I say: We continue this good day with good laws! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e5152	The next speaker is Mr Eder. Desirable time: 4 minutes. Mr Collegue, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e5171	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Ikrath has also set out a number of the arguments he has put forward here on these laws, namely the Stock Exchange Act and the Securities Supervisory Act. We have held a very factual and good discussion there on this matter. It is only so – Mr Matznetter has already done this in detail, I would like to look at it from other points of view – that a number of arguments put forward by us have not been incorporated into the law. That is why we will not give this law the consent, not because we think the direction in which it goes is wrong, but because a number of important points which I will mention have not been incorporated into the law. Ladies and gentlemen! We must not forget that insider trade has been through some sort of cavalier crime for a long time. You thought it was so, you just have more information than others and you can buy or sell in time and make quite a lot of money. Only: This is not the case, because there is, if one wins, loser on the other side. And that's why I'm in favour of this law being made in the form – that's not a question at all. But the objective of eliminating abuse in all possible variants is not achieved by this law alone. I am thinking only of the organizations, of how many Director-Generals of individual banks sit in how many supervisory councils of companies. It is often true that well over 20 or 30 supervisory functions are covered by a person. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I know, but then you should put that into the discussion. I'm not saying it's totally bad, I'm just saying you should be too. Consider once – perhaps I can invite you, the specialists in this field – whether it makes sense for individuals to have the opportunity to sit in different societies completely different from those who do not sit on the Supervisory Board in these companies. Of course, you have quite different information possibilities, and the evidence is the central point in this whole situation. So we are dealing here with a matter where it is not just a matter of holding back criminal activities which have been done with a corresponding level of punishment. We have also discussed this in the Committee. The government's original proposal – and this was also justified by the Ministry of Justice – has provided for a different level of punishment. Then it was again argued that these three years in connection with immediate prison sentences are also a severe punishment. You can see that kind of thing, I don't want to abdicate it. However, it is also necessary to take into account, on a regular basis, how criminal measures are in terms of crimes against people's bodies and lives and the dimensions of punishment in the financial field. You can discuss all of this. But in principle it was too little for us to draft this law in the form we now have. From our point of view, it is not designed according to sharp enough, and I believe that you will need to improve here again and the experience will have to play a bit. It is a step in the right direction, I do not want to argue, but nevertheless we do not give the law in this form today the consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e5219	Mr Bucher came next to the speaker's desk. His welcome time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e5237	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! First of all, I would like to say a few words about the ERP fund, which, from our point of view, has developed very, very well and which has helped the Austrian economy in recent years to a great advantage and, overall, has also been able to change the entire funding scene in Austria by combining the priorities of economic promotion in the area of the AWS. Although there has been difficulties in the run-up over the last few years, support efficiency has been increased and the economy has a great advantage. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I am particularly pleased, of course, that investment-intensive economic sectors, such as tourism, have a relatively high share of economic support and interest-based loans that are paid out. [[Call the SPÖ:Many too few!]] Yes, of course! It's 10 percent of the total funding volume. We can expect more and more, but this corresponds roughly to the share of GDP that tourism takes in Austria. I believe that we can be satisfied with this, because, in addition to this, national funding is always paid and not only the Federation for tourism-intensive funding is available. I therefore believe that, on the basis of these statistics, which have been created by new investment and by this offensive of the AWS, we can achieve a very good balance between 1,500 new jobs. The third item concerns the Stock Exchange Act and the Securities Supervisory Act. Here, an EU directive will be incorporated into a new law. The insider trade in Austria has already been called a cavalier crime. For many private and also securities dealers, it is not clear that insider trading is punishable. I believe that this law has achieved one, and that is very essential, namely that the private, if they have inside information, are also taken into account. I think we have managed one very well: to find an optimal balance with regard to the criminal framework. If, today, Mr Eder has criticized the fact that the criminal framework is too low and that it could have been set up for ten years, I believe that there is a need to make a comparison with the criminal offences: A 10-year maximum penalty exists in the event of wrongdoing against body and soul, for murder and injury, so that there is no proportionality to economic criminal acts. I therefore believe, in sum, that this five-year penalty threat, which we are putting into this law, is a relatively good and also an average maximum penalty, with which one can live and which will certainly also provide an important impetus in Austria as regards the compensation of insider trade. I believe that the confidence-building measures will be those that will also have a positive impact on the Austrian Stock Exchange. Today, as part of the budget speech, we have already heard that the development of the Austrian Stock Exchange Square is a very positive one, which also radiates beyond the country, for example to Budapest, where there are attractive capital market shares. We will give this law our consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e5277	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e5295	Mr President. High house! The amendments to the Stock Exchange Act and the Securities Supervision Act under discussion will provide the authorities and the courts with better and more effective means to combat abuse of power in the stock market, in particular to combat insider trading and market manipulation. We fully implement the EU Market Abuse Directive with these legislative amendments. What are the priorities? – A significant increase in the penalties, reporting and publication obligations of issuers of stock exchange-oriented securities – ad hoc publicity keyword – reporting and publishing obligations of potential insiders – keyword Director’s Dealings – reporting and publishing obligations of persons who could influence the development of the stock market – key Analyst obligations. The position of financial market surveillance in judicial criminal proceedings for insider trading will be strengthened by analogy with the financial authorities in the judicial financial criminal proceedings. If it is now discussed whether five years of insider trade are sufficient or 10 years are sufficient, I refer to the current legal situation. At present, the maximum penalty is two years. With the five years now under discussion, we are increasing to more than double. In addition, unlike so far, the application of the division is excluded. If I now compare internationally – Mr Ikrath has said that – the highest penalty in Germany is five years, in Finland four years, France has a higher penalty of seven years – but it must be said that France, compared to Austria, generally provides higher maximum penalties than Austria – and the UK has seven years – that is similar to France – and Switzerland has three years. I therefore believe that this increase to five years is quite appropriate compared to the previous regulations, compared to international law, and we are now strengthening the capital market, trust in the capital market by this law. As the Minister of Finance has already stated in his budget speech today, the Austrian Stock Exchange has been taking a great turn in recent years, and I believe that these legal frameworks are a major support for this development. - Thank you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[11:50]] Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e5344	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I announce that Members Bures, colleagues and colleagues, according to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested that an investigation committee be set up to examine the conduct of the Federal Ministry of Health and Women and the Federal Ministry for Social Security and Generations, as well as the main association of social security funds with regard to the planning, preparatory proceedings, contractual negotiations, awards and overall implementation of the Chipkarte (e-card) project as from the initiation of an appropriate award procedure by inviting five applicants to submit a bid in February 2000. In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a debate be held on this request. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the debate and the vote shall take place after completion of the agenda. Mr Magz (PPE). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, Mr Hoscher for 4 minutes Preferred speaking time at the speaker's desk. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e5370	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Eder has already mentioned that the thrust of the novels to the Stock Exchange Act and the Securities Supervision Act is basically correct and welcome. In particular, I welcome the fact that, in the Federal Government too, it is obvious that, while fully liberalised financial markets may be a good thing, they need appropriate framework conditions and tight regulations, that is, there is something like market failure – which has been disputed for years – and market failures such as insider trade and market abuse. I do not hide that certain improvements in consumer protection and therefore investor protection will certainly occur with these novels and that at least the position of the FMA will be strengthened formally. Only: With the FMA, the first basic problems begin, because if the financial market supervision does not receive additional resources – and it is the question whether banks will then voluntarily pay for it, whether there will be no political lobbying again – one will find it difficult to execute these novelties. Just one example: § 48a para. For example, 2 Z 3 defines as market manipulation in particular the corresponding use of access to traditional or electronic media, e.g. by giving opinions that are suitable to produce price manipulations. This, of course, requires a massive search of financial market supervision. If all these media have to be searched, then there is certainly a need for additional resources. So that means: Either the FMA has been completely overcrowded so far – then you should break your head over it too – or it will not be able to implement this law as it should be implemented. In our opinion, however, such deficits are also due to certain formulations. The question then arises: Do you really want this law to be implemented in this way, or did you deliberately put in such formulations? As an example, take only the term “accurate information” when trading insiders in Section 48a para. 1 Z 1 a), which leaves much open, although it pretends to define this precisely. It is based on terms such as “abundant probability” or “events” that “will occur in the future” – although we have heard today in the budget speech, we should do the future instead of waiting for it to occur – or “the possible impact” and such things more. So, that means, there's a lot that doesn't fit in here. This leaves a lot of open and in particular a lot of room for advice and consideration. [[Abg. May. Ikrath: Mr Hoscher! Do you want to expand or not?]] We want to expand the situation – and there seems to be a difference – and not only formally on paper. [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] That is your opinion – and your opinion is also legitimate, as is ours! A strange feeling of punishment remains. Now we can certainly discuss whether ten years or five years are appropriate in the course of the criminal investigation. I think that five years, especially with the exclusion of the disversion, are well-discusionable and that one can say that this is also an intensification. I don't want to caprigate myself to the ten years, but the procedure is already a strange one: The Ministry of Finance first submits a draft at the age of ten. Then State Secretary Finz in the committee – and I believe him – says that this was, so to speak, a welcome to the Ministry of Justice, because you would have wanted to be five years. However, this has been a presentation of the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance again agrees with the Council of Ministers for the ten years, because the need for unanimity has been met. Then comes an amendment which will again be in there for five years. Then it says again: The Ministry of Justice was now again for these five years. This procedure does not leave a soothing sense of harmony and coordination within the Federal Government, which has also been reflected in the budget speech. It is then very strange that in the assessment draft of the Ministry of Finance, the personal liability of members of the board of stock companies was included in the case of incorrect information. That's completely outside now, there's no more talk of it at all! The question of the reason for this was not answered in the committee either – another point, which is why we unfortunately have to reject this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e5415	Next, Mr Magistrate. Kogler to the speaker's desk. Desirable time: 7 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e5433	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to refer to the Stock Exchange Act and the Securities Supervisory Act and can agree to all previous speakers on the point that the matter is not quite that simple. We didn't make it easy either. On the basis of the amendment of the government template, we had access to the Committee that it might not be possible to agree here. But we have – and this event is a rare one here in the house, I would like to admit – during the Committee debate already made contact with Mr Ikrath not only, but also with his arguments. In any event, and I have already done so, I will recommend to my group that this proposal be accepted now, not because not a few criticism points would be maintained, or not some of what Mr Matznetter has very clearly said here is shared by us, but because this is a very important matter and under the rule an improvement to the status quo is at least diagnosed by us, I emphasize: an improvement to the status quo. The fact that it could be even more and sharper – in that case one must say, sharper – is a second debate. I also recognise the fact that we already have to put this in relation to other offences, but I still want to hold on to what is the key to our agreement: that not only the criminal framework – whatever happens – will be extended from two to five years – but also the possibility, if you want to do so, of an alternative fine de facto. This must, of course, be considered from the expected deterrent effect that such a provision is capable of unfolding; I think that this is a much stronger instrument than the increase from two to five years. Because if one really has to be aware that one is excluded from participation in capital movements and transactions or has to expect significant disabilities due to the withdrawal of freedom, then this should already have a corresponding effect. Whether and to what extent the restriction or the specific description of the offences is more damaging or beneficial, I must tell you: I have not yet reached final wisdom, but notice that this does not prevent me from finding overall improvement. What is already a problem is, in any case, legal – in the case itself, probably some experts will also argue – is in line 1 : 1-implementation of the EU Directive in the legislative text. This doesn't just seem strange to me, but it might also be in need of repair, but: Let us look at the law, let us see how the FMA is getting along with it, which has ultimately made a positive judgment, and let us see how the Ministry of Justice continues to maintain its opinions here! I asked the Minister of Justice before, because her predecessor, Böhmdorfer, had also raised objections here: This is going so well from her point of view. So I'd say, Let's see how it works, you can still be failed! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e5473	The next speaker is Mr Bauer. Desirable time: 3 minutes. . You are at the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e5492	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! First of all: The SPÖ Group has also noted that it is a step which is quite an improvement, but not a sufficient improvement. We all know the importance of financial market supervision for the functioning of a financial market. I would like to show, on the basis of some examples, how difficult it is to show that there is market abuse and insider business. I'm aware of that. I also know that in Austria, because of the smallness of the market, the term “insider” is difficult to define, because if you sit in many supervisory councils and have functions, you simply can’t turn away knowledge that easily. That is, it is extremely difficult to demonstrate that insider trading has been committed. This requires – that has already been suggested – information work on lawyers and difficult procedures to establish this. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] However, I also believe that we need to discuss how to deal with the question of how to protect ourselves as an insider in the future. It would be important, I believe, to rely much more on other measures, i.e. measures to be taken in parallel, for example on increased publicity obligations to be enshrined in the Stock Exchange Act, or on the strengthening of prospectus liability. There is much more to be done in order to better comply with the capital market law aimed at the protection of functions on the one hand and investor protection on the other. I believe that each of us knows what the prospectus liability is not doing at the moment, namely, in the case of denominations of over €50 000 per share, the principle of equality is fully applied to investors. In other words, there is a gap, and there is a need to do something in the interests of investor protection. However, I would also like to consider the following: How was it possible that at Telekom Austria a course of 12.74 € with date 13. ==References== On August 14, it was hunted up to over €14 and then by a message to €11 on 19th. Is it a crash on August? – You have to ask yourself the question: Can information that exists in this regard be used by insiders, or can one do only one thing: to inform the public in such a way that the accusation of the abuse of insider information at all does not arise at all? Indeed, Finance Minister Grasser did not get out of the way! The increase in shares has begun with the meeting with the counterpart from Switzerland – that was very clear, even though it was demented that Deutsche Telekom was the subject of the talks, no one thought so right – and then the crash came. If, instead of going to the public, the ÖIAG holds a Supervisory Board meeting, this is truly – and so it was commented on by the media – a bad strategic performance. I could continue at Telekom Austria, but I would just like to say more that I believe that it is a matter of bringing information to the public in such a way that the accusation of insider trading cannot be raised. In any case, the FMA has not complied with its supervisory obligation in such a way that it would have intervened, with the exception of a short interruption of trade, and it has not conducted an investigation, although it would have been urgently necessary. Either the FMA has not done so for reasons of its capacity, or it has not been made possible for it to intervene – so I would formulate it. I think insider trading needs to be seen much wider than we are currently discussing it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e5531	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Fassleven. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e5550	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I was at a working session of the European Central Bank in Frankfurt yesterday, where the Lisbon Strategy was on the one hand and the Monetary and Employment Pact on the other. I've been in politics for several years now, but I have to say: I have never done so at an international meeting, namely, that I have heard such recognized words about Austria from experts and from economic professors from all over Europe, namely recognized words concerning the development of key data and the development of the most important economic and employment structures. – I was extremely positive, I really have to say that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] These statements by the economic professors referred, as has been said, to Austria. There is no doubt that in Austria – and this has been very clear from the budget speech today – there has been an enormously positive development in the stock exchange sector, which has been an increase of almost 100 percent since 2000, in terms of the ATX's course, while at the same time making significant losses both on the American and on important European exchanges; I am thinking of the DAX or the Japanese Nikei. It's not a coincidence! Of course, this is essentially the product of entrepreneurial activities in the banking sector and in other sectors in Central and Eastern Europe, but this is also due to the support of government policy, namely the capital market offensive that the Federal Government has launched. I am just saying – because Mr Eder has also spoken about this –: I believe that the appointment of Director-General Schenz of a specialist, who led Austria's largest company before, to the Capital Market Officer, who deals with it, was really a very, very important contribution to this. In my opinion, all of this – the regulations, the macroeconomic situation and the actions of the Federal Government – has contributed significantly to the fact that there has been a very positive and important development for the Austrian economy. This means that there is more equity for Austrian companies, which also means that, if necessary, one has enough capital to be able to capture an Austrian company on the Austrian side, and that also means that more is invested in innovation, et cetera. Of course, especially if the development is so interesting, monitoring should also be strengthened accordingly, and that is exactly what we are doing today. I have reached the point where I must say that I no longer understand the colleagues of the Socialist Group. Then: You're going out here and you're the only party in Parliament saying you're against it. At the same time, however, each one of you also says that it is a clear improvement compared to the previous regulation, which must be admitted. – Up to four years ago you have yourself have not brought together such a good rule – yet you are against it now! In my opinion, the best opposition really begins to work! That in such a situation you simply cannot get through to say a yes to the new regulation, and only for some formal reasons do I find that sad. Opposition policy should be tough, should be consistent, should also point out, as did Mr Kogler of the Greens, that one or the other would have been able to grasp it even more or better, but that can't change the fact that if you think something good and right, you say yes to it. That's exactly what I'm asking you to do! Rethink your position, you're sure you're here on the wrong steamer!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e5610	Mrs Hagenhofer is speaking next time. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e5628	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I will go back to the item on the agenda and deal with the government paper on the change in the Statute of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) This bank – and we all know this – promotes the transition to the open and free market economy for private and entrepreneurial initiatives in the Central and Eastern European countries, which are subordinated or professed to the principles of multi-party democracy, pluralism and the market economy. Mongolia is not one of these Central and Eastern European countries and has therefore asked the Bank to support projects in its own country, and Austria welcomes this project. We Socialists are very positive about this approach, but I would like to say very critically, on the example of Bosnia-Herzegovina, that under what conditions and according to what principles such funds are to be allocated. The question must be examined: How then are these funds forgiven? Bosnia-Herzegovina has an official unemployment of 15 percent, but in fact it is 70 percent, yet in Bosnia-Herzegovina there is great economic activity recognizable, many things have already been carried out, but there are only a few people paying taxes there. That is, ladies and gentlemen, The framework conditions of money allocation are to be observed very carefully or even strengthened by additional requirements, because it is necessary for the respective country in which money flows – including from us – tax revenue to be lurked! It can't be that money without tax revenue simply disappears in the shadow economy. Our goal must be to have ladies and gentlemen – and therefore, Mr State Secretary, I ask you – that in these transformation countries the economy has to work under the same conditions as our economy, because otherwise we can never – never! – keep economic pace with these countries! It is my request and my order to you to present it accordingly to this bank. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e5669	The next Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Long rider. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e5687	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We all agree on the need to do something as regards the Exchange Law amendment, but the larger opposition party seems not to agree completely. Now, of course, as Mr Hoscher has done, one can assume that one has the intention of not actually making a real law. This is another level, on which we do not want to go. But I can very well understand Mr Bauer's argument that perhaps we could do something in the publicity of the traded papers. I read in there and I thought, perhaps there was some kind of need for action. Only: This is the first step we are taking today. I think that's important, too. The control of the financial market – I think we agree – is all right, it is about protecting trust, it is about Austrian capital, it is above all also about protecting small investors, it is about trying to prevent abuse preventively. Some irritations should also be prevented. It was also stated in the Committee that even the Law of Law was concerned and that the terms were inadvertent. To do this, I have to say: It is indeed a difficult matter! On the one hand, we are talking about deregulation of legislation, but on the other hand, we are trying to somehow regulate every way of life. I assume that, of course – and that will not be possible – a case law will also have to be established, in order to help protect the trust, protect the investor – as you may call it – according to the explanatory notes of this law. We only have the framework conditions with this law to create, we are not the crowns of this beautiful republic. It should also, of course, be pointed out, as in all other areas, the proportionality and the objective justification of legislation. It is, I believe, legitimate to have discussions on criminal law catalogues. Mr Eder has also said that, I am clear. We will always have discussions about this. On the one hand, we hear from the media that some sort of suffering happens, for example, that German parents almost starved their daughter, and that is due to two years, and on the other hand, racing drivers clear out the lives of young people: Thus, as an outsider, one will always have a problem with the fact that some criminal law might be a problem. I am pleased that the Greens agree to this law. What I miss in the social democrats is the willingness to acknowledge that a goal of this law is also to ensure that there is no distortion of competition at the expense of many investors, especially small investors who have no advantage of knowledge. That's exactly what you should stop! We Government parties do this together with the Greens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e5741	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Trunk. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e5760	Madam President! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) A brief comment: There is “real appreciation” in relation to and in contrast to the verbal welcome speech here, and I attach great importance to the fact that my appreciation of the President is a real one and not just a rhetorical phrase. [[Interlocutory calls at the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] - So much for it. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Ellwall.]] Mr Fassleven and Mr Langreiter. I can only say to the opposition of the SPÖ Group – that in a short time, because 3 minutes of speaking time are really very few –: Half-hearted are the enemy of the active! I should now like to comment briefly on your misunderstanding of our attitude: Unfortunately, this novelle – like some others or some other law – is also evidence of the unculture of the handling of government parties with opinions, with drafts, with criticism, not only of the opposition, but also of those of experts who have been presented in the context of the review process. That you see the need for action, on the one hand, on the basis of the EU directives, on the other, but also on the basis of the proven, researched – in many cases one was unable to act – national and international acts of insider trade, it is positive to assess – that my colleagues have already formulated that once again you have denied the opportunity to lay down real effective, applicable, practical and truly dissuasive sanctions or penalties, that is a pity. You also know that this room would have been given for it. The fact that you have left half the courage in the criminal framework – in the government's ten-year plan – is unfortunate, because ten years are much more horrendous than five years. Second point: That you have little worth in opposition criticism, we know, but that even the criticism of the Ministry of the Interior is not even taken into account is worrying, because I understand that it is indeed a massive restriction of criminal police activities if the Ministry of the Interior or the police can only take action at the request of financial market supervision. I think it could have been said that this objection on the part of the Ministry of the Interior should have been heard. The last point is that not only the Chamber of Workers, but also other experts, are demonstrating that you are reducing certain liability issues to the existence of a practically gross negligence. It's not just a criminal act, it's a form of insolence. I mean, insider trading can't be taken with a twinkling of eyes and not considered as a cavalry crime at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e5815	Mrs Tamandl has been mentioned as a provisionally last speech. Voluntary time limit: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e5834	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Mrs Trunk, I think that we are, if we are to ‘respect Mr President’ or “Dear Madam President” here say that it is also very serious that it is not just a flake. That's an adjunct of yours! I cannot share this opinion with you at all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Trust in the stability and fairness of a financial place is one of the most important conditions for investment. Effective supervision makes a significant contribution to this, and Austrian financial market supervision has therefore been built up according to state-of-the-art and forward-looking international standards. In order to protect consumers, investors and creditors, the FMA is watching about the equipment of financial services companies with own resources as well as about transparency and fairness in the Austrian capital market. Financial markets continue to develop. New products are constantly being developed, existing improved and no longer targeted. At the same time, however, new techniques and procedures are being introduced, existing optimizations and survivors are being replaced, so it is constantly being further developed. It is therefore a permanent change, with which the pace of course must also be monitored. The legal framework is of great importance here. For example, the European Directives contribute to the effective fight against market abuse in order to ensure the smooth functioning of the securities markets and public confidence in these markets. Some improvements are, for example, the extension of the practice of market manipulation or the development of the procedural position of the FMA in the insider procedure. Overall, the present draft contributes to increasing the fairness and attractiveness of the domestic capital market, in a balanced way. As the Social Democrats so vehemently demand a higher level of punishment: It would, in my opinion, call into question the balance of criminal threats throughout criminal law if, for example, the intentional serious injury of the body with a fatal outcome of the same criminal framework as insider trading would apply. It may not be in the sense of the legislator – that is, in our sense – to have the same criminal framework for it, because thus a offence against body and life would not weigh as hard as a property offence. I am pleased that the Greens will agree to this and take very good account of the improvements. If the SPÖ can't go along, we're sorry, but it's always that the opposition, if it's not necessarily about its own ideas, doesn't agree. Only: The unculture, how government parties deal with opposition parties, becomes more than clear in Vienna. Unfortunately, Colleague Trunk is not a Viennese, otherwise she might not even say such things at all.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e5892	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteurs did not want a final word. We shall therefore vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the request of the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in question: Amendment of the Convention establishing the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in 560 of the Supplements to be approved. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request within the meaning of Article 49. 2 Federal Constitutional Act that the French and Russian language versions must be made known by the fact that they are involved in public consultation in the Federal Ministry of Finance. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign to do so. – This too is unanimously decided. We come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the Stock Exchange Act and the Securities Supervision Act, together with the title and receipt in 647 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – The draft law is adopted by majority vote. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – This is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 4. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (617 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Genetics Act and the Food Law 1975 (630 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e5969	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I'm going to open the debate. First of all, Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e5997	I need to express a little bit to my stranger: a standing State Secretary, a missing minister. [[State Secretary Dr. Finz is in a waiting position behind the government bank.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: (in the SPÖ ranks) A missing party chairman!]] This is about the genetic engineering law, and we assume that Minister Pröll should actually sit on the government bank. Mr Finz just wanted to go, but then he saw that the government bank would be completely empty. I can't imagine that this is a permanent state now, and suppose the minister is now being brought. [[Call at the ÖVP: Get brought!]] - Good. On the agenda. – You know that 90 percent of the Austrian population in principle rejects genetic engineering in food, that there is severe criticism, high sensitivity, and the dangers to consumers, producers and the environment are therefore a relevant and very decisive event. However, this new genetic engineering law now opens the way to the use of genetically modified varieties and ultimately food doors and gates. And by the way, we are miles away from the fact that there is a four-party resolution request here. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Grillitic.]] This has been held for this purpose once. I come to another point. We have heard the public announcement that there should be a general debate on environmental policy at all, and the Greens would like to combine this with a request for distrust. I would therefore also like to present the social democratic position in this regard. If you look at the list of what the Environment Minister is for, I am now saying – and the emphasis is on the word “also” in this case – then you are already asking the question of the extent to which massive criticism can be made. Whether this is the question of the liberalisation of water in the context of matter or other matters to be negotiated at the WTO level, it is already clear whether there could be more resistance from the Ministry to the position of the European Commission. [[Abg. May. Molterer: The cap is very difficult!]] This also applies to the question of establishing an anti-atomic policy, where even Hungary has recently offered us to be available as an alliance partner. We can assume that the milking process has in principle failed. 70 pans have so far been recognizable in Temelín, and yet the final operating permit is now to be granted! We are also criticising the implementation or fulfilment of the Kyoto targets. We believe that Austria is further away than ever. The goal of achieving 13 percent less CO2 emissions by 2010 compared with 1990 is not really achieved because too little is done for this. There is also no financed new climate change plan negotiated with the federal states. It should be noted that there is a fairness with regard to an old house renovation programme, which would, of course, be in the interests of the environment. In principle, there is criticism in the area of transport policy, where CO2 emissions are growing most. Today, as part of this self-lobe-organization of the Minister of Finance, which is marching with two kilos of incense during his budget speech, we have heard the word "Bundesbahn", ÖBB. We say that the reduction in rail investment, which did not make a positive contribution in terms of personal transport, did not make a positive contribution. There are, therefore, a number of criticisms, up to the fact that we have to recognise that environmental protection funds are being used to redouble agricultural support rather than that environmental protection is at the centre. Otherwise, we will see that under the Ecostrom Act. In this regard, we believe that a small group of “golden noses” would very well deserve that wind power operators work with returns from 14 to 17 percent. [[Abg. Grill: What did the Chamber of Workers say?]] – This is more about the address of Minister Bartenstein, but it is the subject of the debate, and of course it can also be said by the Minister for the Environment as a member of this government that this is not for the benefit of small consumers. We therefore have a somewhat different view, including in the public debate. Nevertheless, it must be said in summary that while the Minister of Agriculture is a talented agricultural lobbyist, environmental protection is not really at the centre of his political considerations and his work, it remains far behind. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We therefore believe that this request for distrust should be supported today.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e6134	As the next speaker, I would like to give Mr Deputies Ing. Schooled the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e6152	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! Today we are truly experiencing a premiere, a premiere of a special kind. Some colleagues have insisted that we have a successful minister who has not yet been adapted. And that's why the greens have made a move to adapt it today. What makes me a little disappointed personally: Mr Cap, who has another favorite sacrifice, is now also applying to our Pröll. – Not necessary, too bad! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Will not succeed either!]] I think that we can do this today's discussion block with pleasure. I am glad that our Federal Minister Pröll is here, although he should not be here at all. He simply wants to “give ” that. He usually speaks a lot to the Greens, he also receives a lot of their suggestions, and they are then strongly discussed. He probably didn't expect to have this kind of adapt. – But everything is once the first time, and I congratulate you that you have now also been included in this “circuit”. High house! Today's discussion is also about the question of genetic engineering, since – and this is important and right – a necessary step is taken again within the framework of our legislative works. We have formulated genetic engineering policy in Austria a little different from that in the rest of Europe. Europe says: Free trade, free movement of goods – everyone can buy whatever he wants. We in Austria know that we do not want to do much – and above all we do not want to have produced in Austria. But we will still not be able to exclude the free movement of goods. This is European law. Therefore, if we want to keep Austria clean on the issue of genetic engineering, and if we want to give the Austrian farmers the opportunity to give up genetic engineering on a sustainable basis, we must create a framework very intelligent and in the cooperation of all Austrian responsibilities, in which we can continue to secure our status as non-genotechnic production at the farm. Our farmers trust that they can use the Austrian seed. Through the Seed Regulation, we have found that seed produced in Austria must be free of genetic engineering, not somehow, but actually according to the hardest possible values. In terms of declaration and perceptibility, we now need to implement everything that is necessary in order to be able to give security to processors and trade, to know what they really have. And we insist that the customer, the consumer, who really wants it as we hope. We also know that our businesses act very responsibly, and we know both from the seed producers in Austria and from trade that we want to rely on genetic engineering in the future. So it's all good and nice. What do we have to decide today? Today, we are building the last safety net in case someone could actually come up with the idea of growing such a thing in Austria because of the European legal situation in the future. It may well be that any international corporations simply want to provoke a discussion. We have to take care of this! And by means of this law, we ensure that the last issues of risk are also clarified, and who is clear what is to be held responsible for. We want this to be transparent to the public and to know what is happening. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] So a good thing, and I really thank all the colleagues who worked on it. This is about constructive contributions from the seeds industry, from the ministries, from the AGES, it is about contributions from the federal states, and ultimately also from the federal government. I regret that the only one who failed to do their job in this area was the European Commission, because they have not yet put on the table the rules of co-existence which are practical in Europe. We believe that we are going a right way in Austria, and if we are able to make hand in hand, farmers, all processors and consumers, a strong chain, we will be able to protect free from genetic engineering Austria for a long time: for fresh products, for healthy enjoyment and joy in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e6201	Next item is the report by Mrs Dr. Believable. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e6232	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is also a special situation for me today. I have been an environmental spokesperson of the Greens for five years now, for almost 15 years now, environmental activist and environmental protectionist, and of course we have always had a very ambivalent relationship with an environmental minister or with environmental ministers. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: This is a farewell speech!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] We have had a lot of environmental issues with each other. We have often criticized, harshly criticized, but always solid, because we always knew exactly what pressure an environmental minister, an environmental minister, is under. And we have also experienced some who have been kneeling under the pressure from the economy, from the Chamber of Agriculture, from the Industrial Union. It has always been a criticism of solidarity, and a request for distrust has nothing to do with ‘adapt’, but that is the question: Trust or failure of trust. We have always used these instruments very sparingly. Once the Greens have filed a motion of censure against an environmental minister in 1991. That's 13 years ago! We have had huge environmental conflicts with each other at this time, and we have also experienced huge environmental conflicts with other actors. One of the major conflicts was genetic engineering, which has been the subject of this House for 12 years now. I have always thought that in the field of genetic engineering there is a consensus, a very, very broad consensus also in this House regarding the rejection of a technology that uses the decoding of the building blocks of life to implement only industrial interests in plant breeding, in animal breeding. A technology that then results in products such as maize, which is resistant to any herbicide, or soybeans that have been fed with gene sequences of bacteria, which are then resistant to anything that is used in environmental toxins, products that bring absolutely zero to the consumer and the consumer. Nor does anyone know the environmental impact, the long-term effects of these products, especially on human health, on the health of children, one does not know whether they produce allergies et cetera. These barriers were broken through by genetic engineering. We have always been very, very critical of what Austria is all about, because nobody knows what we are looking for in the long term. Nature is uncontrollable. All that is released is irreversible, and today we stand at a crossroads with this law, as it continues on this issue. In front of this separation, before this decision, of course, we were very excited to expect: What's going on in this law? How will the Minister for the Environment act? – An environmental minister who, unlike his predecessor, then Federal Minister Molterer, has always expressed himself clearly and openly against genetic engineering in Austrian agriculture. The predecessor didn't do that. The predecessor has always said that he wants to leave this path open to Austrian agriculture. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That's why he became Clubobmann!]] Minister Pröll never said that. He has always said that he wants genetic engineering from Austrian agriculture outside. – The European Union has decided differently. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: He didn't get any mistrust for that!]] Next year the moratorium will fall, and we will then have on the Austrian fields of maize, potatoes – by the way, this is a sugar beet – and so on, which are not free of genetic engineering. [[Each of the corresponding vegetables taken out of the basket]] These are symbols of products that will be released from next year on the Austrian fields if nothing is done about it. [[pointing to the contents of the basket]] We have now eagerly expected the activities of the Minister for the Environment, because he had aroused very high expectations, including very high expectations of 1.2 million people who signed a popular desire that must be taken seriously, even today, six years after that. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] This was and is a political mission, especially to an environmental minister. These 23 requests, which come to us at the European level, must now be resisted. And I was excited to see what's coming. There is a huge potential for conflict here – liability issues, co-existence issues – yes, the existence of the entire organic farming in Austria today is at stake with this law and the accompanying measures if there are such. Mr. Environment Minister, you have turned to the other side. They have personally watered down liability in this law and thus carried the conflicts into the villages. They have abandoned the very small organic farmers, whose neighbours, in the event of a conflict, are supported by the genetic engineering group Monsanto with a huge legal department. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: (in the direction of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Don't laugh! Don't laugh!]] You, Mr Minister, did not do anything else in your field. I would have expected someone to take this seriously if someone was serious and said, I would like to keep Austrian agriculture and food production free from genetic engineering! that he then does everything that can only be thought about and possible. I ask you, Minister: How can you explain this to anyone that Austrian environmental promotion in agriculture bears genetic engineering seed? How is that compatible? How can we promote gene seed in Austria? – I don't think anyone in Austria understands that at all. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I also do not understand how one cannot follow a proposal that is so depressingly simple, namely simply to align the large funding programme accordingly, which would keep 90 percent of the Austrian area without genetic engineering. You don't need to argue with Bartenstein, but you only need to write this into the funding program, as Slovenia already does. The EU will notify how it did in Slovenia, and then we have guaranteed 90 percent free of genetic engineering! I can no longer hear these statements: any non-genotechnic zones, non-genotechnic forest districts, non-genotechnic cultivation zones for seeds. – In reverse, this means that all other zones – the wine district, the mill district and all other regions – are genetic engineering zones. And I don't want that, Minister of the Environment – and that's not what the Austrian people want! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] By going here now and saying: All that is enough! – I can't interpret it differently – you can still accept over the back door that genetic engineering will be used in Austrian agriculture from next year onwards. They want to accept this quietly and simply open the back door for it – otherwise this half-heartedness is unexplainable. The special accusation in this context – and this also has to do with confidence – is that you have previously said that you do not want it. This is a deception and also a breach of trust, not only to us Greens, but also to the population. The suspicion is that this was a pure lip confession, and that is unacceptable! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's one. But there is still a second and a third subject, which makes me very emotional, because it also concerns one of the major environmental conflicts of Austrian history. Since 1978, one, I think, has been undisputed and clear: The Austrian population does not want nuclear power plants, and the Austrian population has a very positive attitude to all that has to do with renewable energy, eco electricity. Many know that, the mayors in the communities know this: People want that, and that makes sense! They do not want to depend on oil whose price is now on the markets at 53 or 54 dollars per barrel. The insanity of this dependence will in the medium term cost the electricity price once again! Not only anything that is produced on a fossil basis, but also all that is produced on a gas basis will lead to very high electricity prices in the medium term and also to enormous social problems. The fact that you are excited about the eco electricity with this 10 € per household per year and, on the other hand, the 200 € cost increase for 900 000 households in Austria due to the price development of heating oil is easy to accept, which is already remarkable! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That you do not implement the only reasonable alternative in the energy field, namely the consistent establishment of renewable energies, whether in the electricity sector or in the heat field, but instead sit down together with the Minister of Economic Affairs and put the death blow on this industry, that also hurt me emotionally last week, hurt me. It is an industry that has been able to survive for 15 years a system change after another, which constantly and repeatedly strives to create something somewhere, with citizen participation – these are not stock companies, these are civil society companies! Especially the wind – the most efficient form – does not have a lobby, it is your sausage! This agreement is out for the wind energies, the out for 15 000 jobs you are emptying into the Danube, the out for export opportunities – and devastatingly as a European signal. In Central and Eastern Europe, we are making the laws in the field of eco-electric production and we are looking at how to do this. These countries are now looking at Austria. I got calls all week, where people asked us: Are you crazy? You have a functioning law, the first functioning environmental law – there are not even two years – and that is where the Minister for the Environment sits and says: It's a success if I give a minimum pensioner who gets 500 € and wants to give the beardstone only more than 5 € now 10 €! – This is a success? – This is not a success, this is an absolute disaster in this area, Mr Environment Minister! [[New condolences with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is the most serious setback we have had in this area so far. It is a pity, above all, because of the enormous economic potential and potential that exists in this area: In Germany – all know – the area of wind energy has already achieved more jobs than the nuclear economy. These are huge opportunities! They export to the whole world! We also have a huge potential here – but no: Once something works, you have to step down! I'm gonna call you a few more numbers to show you what that really means: This year alone we would have had at our disposal 122 million € in funding volume, compensation volume. For next year it's 22 million – that's a minus of 80 percentage points! What else can you build with it? – There you can create a few eco electricity plants in the garden, but with a conscious economic course it has nothing more to do! In the field of biomass, we will be able to build two medium-sized plants next year. In the field of biogas we will be able to build 18 plants. – More plants were built in Upper Austria alone than these 18 biogas plants. The wind is dead: There may be two smaller wind farms, but under these conditions no one will build such a thing anymore. The principle “first come, first served” should apply to all plants: It's the first time that the people's gonna be on the 2nd floor. Put those in front of the ministry so that they are “first come ” so that they get a promotion? Then they may have the whole risk of not getting an approval notice in time, and then the promotion pot is empty. How do you imagine that? Throughout Europe, these writing models have been abolished – we introduce them. It's really bad! - I have to get upset. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And all this against the background of a campaign in which the Minister of Economic Affairs and the E-Control work with manipulative numbers that have washed! They are proven to use false numbers and use them again and again. - I'm not saying to you either: Agricultural support costs 1 200 € per household per year! – That’s just totally unsanitary. I also know people who in some way in no way feel aesthetically comfortable with the many windwheels on the Parndorfer plate. Nevertheless: Of course, there should be civil participation, a sensitive handling, appropriate distances – everything clear – but the beauty of an energy production form that does not produce nuclear waste, no greenhouse effects, no floods et cetera is simply opposed to this! That's why it's so bad that you've been on the wrong side, Minister for the Environment. It's really bad! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The third area – and with that I am almost at the end of my speech – is: Two days ago – it has been announced, and this was preceded by a long struggle that many in this House have experienced and where there has also been a very large support from the Austrian population – the nuclear authorisation for Temelín has been legally decided for the next ten years. This is a smooth break of the so-called Milker Agreement – we all know it – which provides for the commercial operation of the Temelín AKW only after completion of all the investigations – investigations, you know, to be included in the seven major security failures. Now the thing goes into operation, gets an operating permit for ten years, and what does the Environment Minister do? – The Minister for the Environment goes here and says: This has nothing to do with the Milker agreement, everything goes on – and so on. I would like an Environment Minister to say: That's a smooth break! We will not accept that, and we will not give up this fight against Temelín, no matter how difficult it is! – You have nothing else to show: There is no security improvement, and there are no activities in the direction, as the National Council has also called on you to take the exit negotiations. - That's the third thing. What's going to happen now? – The Greens present today a motion of censure against the Minister for the Environment. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: We already know that!]] We are the opposition – the majority of the government in the House is expected to vote in favour of this request. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Right!]] But I and the Green Group, we cannot trust an environmental minister who proposes the possibility of keeping Austrian agriculture free from genetic engineering, who takes note of the fact that non-genotechnic agriculture is at the doorstep, which has left the green electricity with the worst setback so far, giving up the fight against Temelín. I can't!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e6419	Mr Klubobmann Mag has to make an actual correction. Molterer to speak. You know the Rules of Procedure. 2 minutes speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e6441	Mr Glavischnig claimed that the Minister for the Environment was on the wrong side. I'm correcting: He is on the right side, that is, on the side of environmental policy with home mind!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e6481	Mr Klubobmann, for the sake of clarification: That was not an actual correction! Mr Dipl.-Ing. Cheers to speak. Mr President, you have a voluntary speaking time limit of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e6506	Madam President. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps the Greens could also get rid of their products, which they have shown here, because I think the training of Dr. Glawischnig has ended – and we should move on to the real issue. It was fascinating – and this was just the beginning of my remarks – that both speakers of the SP Group, but above all Mrs Glawischnig, talked about a request for distrust for a few minutes, but this was obviously not brought in. Obviously, you were so busy setting up sugar beet, potatoes and maize products that you might have forgotten to make such a request. But this may be one of your next speakers, so that we can then vote on it. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber carries away the basket filled with fruit and vegetables from the speaker's pulp.]] Thank you. In any event, the reason why you are submitting a motion of distrust, a request which I do not believe is understandable, but probably the mistrust of the Greens – I really do not want to defend Mr Pröll’s Minister of Agriculture – is that, as Mrs Glawischnig himself said, Mr Pröll is the first Minister for Agriculture of the ÖVP, who is against genetic engineering. You should be so skeptical about this by the Greens that you are making a mistrust request against Federal Minister Pröll. And that is actually not understandable, because normally you would have to acknowledge that Federal Minister Pröll represents your line! For us, then, the way you work is really incomprehensible. Now, on the topic of genetic engineering, which I would like to deal with now, this issue is almost already being discussed at every meeting. It is almost fascinating that this matter is being discussed over and over again, where, across all political groups, there is a clear commitment to the in-trafficking of genetically modified products. It has been discussed very often, as has been said, and it has repeatedly confirmed that all the parties are against it. There has also been a moratorium; it has also been staged a lot on the part of the Greens. However, the final effect is that there is a need for action in relation to the national field. And why is there this need for action? That is why, unfortunately, because the European Union has prescribed something to us in Brussels, the in-trafficking of genetically modified organisms has been prescribed by an institution that is, so to speak, in front of the national Parliament. Now one could be philosophyd about why, for example, the German Minister for Agriculture Künast, a representative of the Greens, did not vote in the EU against the introduction of such products, why, so to speak, it did not prevent the green sign of European policy from even trying to prevent the in-trafficking of genetically modified organisms. No, because there, at one time, European policy was subordinated to the policies of the Greens, better said: superlative. So, as we have seen, the Greens' policy has come across borders, but now here, in the national Parliament... [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber:... not far out!]] Mr Dr. Pirklhuber, “lost out” to or from: The Green Renate Künast was a Minister of Agriculture at European level for the In-Transport Bridge of Genetically Modified Organisms! That's facts! I would therefore expect you to come out here from the Greens and explain this – and not always to hack around on this government, so to speak, if we in the Austrian Parliament are going to make laws here, which attempt to get this dictatorship from Brussels so to deal with it, so that we can at least handle it, so that, for those areas in which almost all Austrians wish that the in-transport bridge will prevent genetically modified food from creating the necessary framework conditions, even if it is not made easy for us to do so on the basis of the decision in Brussels. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is now also leading me to a set of pages which I would like to put on: I believe that this genetic engineering discussion should make us a little more cautious in future decisions, and we should also be very careful in the coming days, weeks and months to make important decisions from Brussels, so that we do not get back from ‘top’, Brussels, so that we may have to decide legislation here later in Parliament in order to at least minimise damage, in other words, to reduce damage in a wide range of areas. In this context, I am thinking, for example, of the controversial discussion on Turkey's accession to the EU, or also of the planned EU Constitution, where things are in discussion, where it might then be called afterwards: Why was nothing done about it?- Oh, my God! Now a few words about the genetic engineering law itself, whereby I mean that the result is really tangible. There have been months of negotiations here, and especially our free environment spokesman Klaus Wittauer, but also our then Minister of Justice Dieter Böhmdorfer, the liberal agricultural speaker, i.e. I myself, and many representatives of the Freedom Party have negotiated with the ÖVP for months in this context – and have achieved something that, as I mean, is quite tangible. One could, of course, discuss the fulfilment of 100 percent wishes, but as soon as a request for distrust is made, that is, I think, the wrong way. Summary: We have defined uniform criteria, approval deadlines are available for ten years; there are clear criminal regulations. As regards the in-transport bridge of genetically modified products, there are clear liability arrangements at the federal level. We have created federal uniform regulations, we have introduced a proof burden relief, and we have – and as a Carinthian I am proud of it because we first implemented this model in Carinthia – also tried to make regulations that make it difficult for the in-transport bridge. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Salzburg! Salzburg has the first law!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: But it is Salzburg, not Carinthia!]] Summa summarum is clearly defined at three levels: Unfortunately, the European level has failed – it is an insanity, on which we are, I believe, all agreed. At the federal level, we now adopt a good law which means a clear improvement of the status quo. The national laws or national competences – the solution to the issue of co-existence – will probably also lead to the final effect that most farmers will at least consider using genetically modified products. In addition to all these legal conditions, however, there is also – and on this I attach special importance here – the possibility of personal participation. Each consumer can decide to a certain extent by his/her buying behaviour. Companies can also co-design – I am thinking only of the ‘carinthia milk’, whose board has decided that milk cows whose milk is supplied to them should only be used more free of genetic engineering. All these are measures to make clear where the journey is to go, and I believe that we will also be required far away from these discussions, so to speak, outside the daily business, so to speak, to ensure that improvements are made here. Other issues have been discussed: Mr Klubobmann Cap has spoken on a very unemotional level, I have to say – quite untypically for you, Mr Klubobmann – here about ecostrom, biosprite mix and the like. So I think all these laws are pointing in the right direction. There is no question that there may be maximum demands here, that there are points where one or the other is more expected. But building on a mistrust request, that's a little bit too far. I have to say honestly, I too do not necessarily agree with the opinion of Minister Pröll at all times, and we also very often discuss controversially and then rarely really agree at the end, only: We are far away from this today. If we were to draw up a ranking, I believe that it is one of those EIA ministers who are certainly in the last third when it comes to distrusting someone. And that's what the greens should think about. [[Call the Greens and the SPÖ: Who is the first? Who's up there?]] [[Abg. Krainer: Who is on the top of the list?]] And I also expect, Dr. Pirklhuber, a certain consequence of your policy. If you, or if Mrs. Dr. Glavischnig, are here to present us with her disillusionment and her real deep disappointment about the “terrorist” environmental policy of the Minister Pröll and the ÖVP, I say once – I think it will not have been so serious – I must say: In Upper Austria, where you are in a coalition with the Austrian People's Party, you could really demonstrate how important it is to you that the ÖVP makes a credible environmental policy. There you could make it hard: Step out of the coalition and prove that you are not satisfied with the policy of the ÖVP! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e6653	Ladies and gentlemen! It's 12:59. As agreed, therefore, I will interrupt the meeting for half an hour. I shall resume the sitting on time at 1.30 p.m. The first speaker will be Mrs B. Rauch-Kallat. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e6680	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start the interrupted session again. We continue in the list of speakers. Ms Rauch-Kallat spoke next. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e6707	Madam President. High house! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: “-tin”!]] Please? [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: “Woman President in ”!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: Mrs. Minister! Mrs. President!]] [[Call the ÖVP: But go!]] Madam President, please! "Woman President" is a pleonasm, but please. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: This is not a pleonasm! It's applied properly!]] All right, so I'm going to be... [[Abg. May. Stoisits: We do not say to you either, “Mr Federal Minister”!]] Yes, I take note of it. Madam President. High house! Let me briefly comment on the novelle of genetic engineering. This genetic engineering novel has not only become necessary in the European Union due to the development of recent years, but it will also, for the first time, extend the genetic engineering law by substantial points and, above all, intensify it. These are four major areas of action and action, namely, the improvement of the safety assessment of release applications and intra-trafficking requests for protection of public and environmental health, the improvement of the protection of consumer interests, the increase of transparency and information to the public and the safeguarding of surveillance and, fourth, the protection of domestic agriculture and the safeguarding of organic and conventional agriculture. Let me briefly comment on the first point. For the first time, uniform European criteria are laid down for the safety assessment of releases and in-transport flows of genetically modified organisms, taking particular account of long-term and accumulated environmental impacts. In addition, there will be a time limit for authorisation for a maximum period of ten years, which in principle also applies to renewals of authorisation, and the setting of specific deadlines for the individual stages of the procedure in the EU-wide authorisation procedure for the in-transport phase of GMOs, the review of existing authorisations and the adoption of specific provisions for application in the approval of the in-transport bridge, in particular taking into account given ecological conditions. That is to say, it is a very comprehensive protection of the environment. For the protection of consumer interests, there will be a definition of responsibility for the implementation of Regulations 1829 and 1830 on genetically modified food and feed, traceability and labelling of GMOs, as well as the introduction of horizontal criminal provisions for infringement of these Regulations and a gradual removal of dubious antibiotic resistance markers in GMO products until 31. ==References== This is especially important to prevent antibiotic resistance. With regard to increasing transparency, information to the public and ensuring monitoring, this is ensured by a mandatory rallying of approval and risk management decisions and a recording of the places of release to facilitate monitoring. The corresponding regulatory empowerment is intended to bring together the registers established in the countries in a uniform manner, and to ensure the extension of the gene engineering register conducted by the Federal Ministry of Health and Women. Clear labelling and traceability measures will also increase consumer information, as will mandatory monitoring, monitoring of products placed on the market. Let me also briefly say something about the protection of domestic agriculture and the protection of the biological and conventional economy. We have defined a very special duty of care to avoid accidental mixing of GMOs, including the introduction of a limit value scheme. The limit value scheme shall, on the one hand, take over the EU-defined limit values for products intended for processing, in particular, food or feed. For the area not regulated by the EU, a subsidiary limit of 0.1 percent is set. It is – and this is something that we are particularly proud of – also the implementation of a very clear liability system that ensures the interests of our farmers who want to be free from genetic engineering – both organic farmers and conventional farmers who do not want to grow genetically modified products – and this is fully taken into account. This federal uniform liability scheme will contribute to the issue of co-existence of the federal government, in accordance with the precautionary principle, in addition to the rules in the federal states, it is appropriate to allow the cultivation of GMOs at European level. As regards the criticism of why no further legal provisions on co-existence are included in this law, I should like to point out that provisions, which may be necessary in addition to the newly introduced duty of care and the planned rules on liability for agriculture, are not included on the basis of lack of federal competence. However, the path that the country of Carinthia has taken with its government template for a Carinthian genetic engineering precautionary law can also constitute an EU-compliant regulation and solution of the co-existence of any future GMO plant cultivation with organic and conventional agriculture. In any case, the liability regime is so clearly stated that we are convinced that the Austrian farmers will probably make use of no - and if only in a very small measure - of genetically modified organisms. Austria has a high sensitivity to genetic engineering, and I assume that precisely this sensitivity and awareness of both farmers and consumers will lead to the fact that such products are not likely to be grown in Austria. [[Abg. Oillers: Farmers and consumers already, but not agricultural groups! Feed companies!]] In this sense, I believe that this regulation will enable us to ensure that not only the directives will be implemented accordingly, but that Austria will continue to remain a non-genotechnic country in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e6829	The next speaker was Mr Krainer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e6847	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! If the objective of this law is to continue to keep Austria free of genetic engineering in agriculture, this objective has clearly been missed. Directive 2001/18, which is to be implemented here, gives the national states, and thus Austria, the tool and the possibility of keeping a country free of genetic engineering through certain measures. First of all, the question of co-existence should be mentioned here. It is intended to be resolved at national level, and it is also explicitly possible here to interpret the co-existence rules so widely that de facto there is no possibility of using genetic engineering in agriculture – if you want to! Only I have the impression that this federal government does not want to. I have the impression that farmers in particular think of themselves When genetic engineering is used in agriculture throughout Europe, our farmers in Austria, if they are not allowed to do so, have a competitive disadvantage, a site disadvantage, and therefore they must also be allowed to do so. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Farmers' Bundesfunctionaries!]] And that's what's happening now: that you want to keep a back door open in this law to use genetic engineering in agriculture. De facto will, of course, be a door-and-door opener for genetic engineering in agriculture from this opening of a back door. This is done by this law. The first is that the co-existence is not regulated at all in this law, or at least not to an extent as it would be appropriate. The second possibility we would have to settle something in this law is the question of liability. There is a very simple, wonderful proposal, namely: Any farmer wishing to use genetic engineering in agriculture must take out liability insurance covering all possible damage. That would be quite easy, but you don't want it. Perhaps there would be no insurance that would offer such liability insurance because the damage is simply not measurable. But I can only say: If the damage was really not measurable, we would have to be glad if the technique was not used. But here too you block! The third possibility, a very simple possibility, concerns the issue of support. This is a proposal from the Greens; they meant that the ÖPUL, the Austrian programme for environmentally friendly agriculture, would support 90 per cent of the arable land in Austria or would provide support for 90 per cent of the land, could simply be included in the funding directives: It can only be used in agriculture without genetic engineering! – and 90 percent would be free of genetic engineering. Yes, if these farmers want to continue to be promoted, that would be the case. And it would also be consistent if we really wanted to apply and apply our principles of genetic engineering. But what does the ÖVP do, what does the ÖVP Farmers' Federation do? - He says: No, that's not an effective way to stop genetic engineering, because farmers can continue to say: I don't want to be promoted, and then they can use genetic engineering. – That’s right, only the reverse is that you want the following: They seem to want to promote all farmers using genetic engineering, otherwise you would remove that from the funding guidelines. If that is now the policy of the ÖVP to promote the use of genetic engineering, then that is, please, something quite different than you claim in your Sunday speeches. [[Abg. Grill: Like the blind of the color...!]] [[Abg. Grill: Like the blind of the color!]] Not only does this law not take advantage of the possibilities that the directive gives us, but it goes beyond the protection mechanisms of the directive! There are two reasons in the European Directive for expressing the conditions under which the use of genetic engineering can be prohibited. One is to protect health and the other is to protect the environment. Our law no longer covers the protection of the environment, it is only about the health of people. The protection of the environment has simply been removed, with clear arguments: that would be unconstitutional – which is absolutely ridiculous! We have even offered the two-thirds majority on this question, but you do not want to. Why? – Simple: Because you also want to leave the door open for the cultivation of rapes, which would, of course, be a threat to the environment in Austria, because the rapes would also appear wildly growing and would be immediately irreversibly genetically modified by crossings. That is why we are proposing that the Committee report be referred back to the Committee on Health, because we are very far away from what ÖVP and FPÖ say at least in Sunday's speeches. The question is what the ministers do in this matter, who always says that he is not responsible. He has created a wonderful Austrian Charter for Genetic Freedom, which is really exciting when you read it. There are eight points in this, and on all eight points it is about others doing something, but never he himself. This is either to be resolved at European level or to be done by the countries themselves, even though it is expressly stated here that there should be an optimization of the legal framework for the free production of genetic engineering, and that there should be an optimized legal framework for the creation of non-genotechnic zones. – But that is not to be seen in this law! There's an absolute failure to find out, that's a pure PR-gag! If you have already asked Minister Grasser a little bit about how this is with mistrust requests – because it is new to you – then I hope you have also inquired about what it actually means when these PR stitches don't work anymore and the whole thing goes back. Because your PR stitches, which you apply here and also in many other questions, will also go backwards, and at the end of the day you will do just as much as Minister Grasser does today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e6929	The request for referral back has been submitted accordingly. This application shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e7002	The next speaker was Mr Grillitsch. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e7020	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I prefer positive PR, Mr Krainer, to be a chronic uncertainty of the population in Austria. I'm really telling you that quite honestly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What you, Mr Krainer, have now shown, together with this mistrust of the Greens, is actually what I have believed that it is over that this time is over and that we can really discuss sustainability strategies, sustainable topics for life in Austria, for healthy life, for safe life in the food sector and in the whole, here. We have jointly adopted and held a four-party proposal, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Exactly!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: And kept!]] [[Abg. Krainer: You have approved of it!]] [[Abg. Krainer: You have agreed!]] We said at that time that we need protection and safety for the consumer and also for the producer. This law is the basis for this, and I ask you: End your strategy to drive the farmers into a genetic engineering corner. For the farmers in Austria are in no genetic engineering corner, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you, Mr Pirklhuber, are talking about a macabre law, I will tell you what macabre is: that you want to unload genetically modified maize before the Ministry of Agriculture. That's macaber. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This is macabre, Mr Pirklhuber! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] This is a policy of uncertainty for the Greens, as we have not actually experienced it in the last five years. Ladies and gentlemen! Since Mrs Glawischnig believes that the public funding instrument should be changed in the sense of a ban on genetic engineering, I am glad that Mrs Glawischnig says that journalists have “overturned” relatively quickly, which is what your strategy is, a thing that only contributes to the uncertainty. [[Calls and calls between the ÖVP and the Greens]] You certainly know Grete Kopenin's "curier" article; I can now quote it: The EU has recently allowed the sowing of genetic engineering. However, no Austrian farmer has yet knownly used the manipulated seed, and the chance is great that it remains that way. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: He can't do that!]] – “The chance is great that it will remain that way,” and the people in Austria have confidence in the local farmers, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Is not allowed so far! Not legally possible!]] And that's what it says: Mitigated consumers rely on strict labelling requirements and want food that is not gene-polluted. – We give consumers safety, and consumers have confidence in us. I tell you, we will continue to do so in the future – I am convinced of that! They are now going to take the opportunity to attack those ministers who are not only visually carrying out sustainability outside, but who are also implementing them in his ministry Ecostrom law, CAP reform, biofuels directive – ladies and gentlemen, these are things that are about making sustainable use of domestic potentials with new technologies, in order to create jobs in Austria on the one hand, while at the same time making a significant contribution to the environment. [[Rejoicing with the Greens]] [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: But the health...!]] I'll end with that. – Rethink your course! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: You too!]] We live in an enormous dynamic of change, my dear colleagues from the Greens and also from the SPÖ, but I fear your change of course. [[Abg. Oillinger: Oh, you're very quick to fear!]] Your change of course scares me! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: You don't need to be afraid!]] I was very pleased that you have left the "Fundi" in recent years and have actually become a green real-world politician. But now you're back on your way back to where you started, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Oillinger: A forced jacket...? Do you think so?]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Now you are disappointed.]] Do you know when you did well? – In the meantime, when you tried to copy our eco-social path! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Where the peasantry was so much for this!]] With your appearance today, you prove that you just wanted to copy this and didn't understand what it was all about, ladies and gentlemen. You didn't get what it was about! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That's why I'm calling you: Against you again from your former motto, which you are now trying to revive: Get in the caves and get up on the trees! Let us not make any refusal to reality!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e7317	The next speaker to speak is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e7335	Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! My dear Madam President! Mr Grillitsch's speech has already been measured. Measured in so far as you have recently, in the last election campaign, brought Greens into contact with forced vegetarianism and the like in the context of a dirt slumber propaganda, of which you too, Mr. Federal Minister, were responsible as the Federal Farmer's Director at the time. It is already worrying that such a newspaper, namely the farmer’s newspaper, will receive over €200 000 per year in press promotion, and perhaps you should consider that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Do you want censorship?]] [[Abg. Grill: Would you like to prescribe the spelling?]] But now it's up to you. – Mrs Federal Minister! This genetic engineering law, which you have presented here, is inadequate and totally unacceptable. It even falls behind the May 2003 draft. And that's crucial! We have already discussed this in the Committee. I would like to remind you of the core points of our criticism. The safeguarding of non-genotechnic agriculture, Mrs Bundesminister, is not an objective. You have spoken of protection here again, but that is not a target. The aim of the law is to promote genetic engineering! That's a fact, because that's what this law says. The liability regime – you have referred to it – is completely inadequate. There is no full burden of evidence and, above all, no mandatory cover provision. How will the damage be paid? Why are genetic engineering users not obliged to take out liability insurance? Mrs Bundesminister, you did not explain this in your speech. Ladies and gentlemen! There is no legal interface at all to the different national regulations relating to cultivation. It is clear that it is country competence to regulate cultivation. In what form, in what way and what framework conditions are to be determined uniformly, so that non-genotechnic regions, non-genotechnic cultivation in the countries can be carried out properly, you have not given any answers to that. This is clearly a setback behind the 2003 amendment proposal by the then responsible Minister Herbert Haupt. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is particularly worrying because the Release Directive, which needs to be implemented because of the fact that an action is under way against the Republic of Austria and other Member States of the European Union, clearly provides that, in order to protect specific eco-systems and geographical areas, authorisation restrictions are possible. You have not proposed anything detailed in this novel. Mrs. Federal Minister, this is not laughing! Unfortunately, Federal Minister Pröll has also remained completely behind his possibilities as Minister of Agriculture. He could have put forward proposals in the interministerial working group which would have really led to the protection of the existence of non-genotechnic and organic agriculture in Austria. The original draft even provided for the introduction of the term “social intolerance”, on the basis of ethical considerations, which would also be compatible with the Release Directive, so that no “war in the villages” arises, Mr Grillitsch. In a small-structured agriculture, there must logically be many legal disputes at local level if this is not clearly regulated. The original draft provided for an agricultural register, in which every year until 1. In February it was announced who wants to grow which GMO plants. This would have allowed the arrants to intervene in good time. On the other hand, your genetic engineering register, which you define here, contains only the approved applications and not already the application templates. That's the point! Only what you have authorized to register is far too little and, above all, too late, Mrs Federal Minister. The Party's position on the opportunities in the regions should also have been extended. There are now many non-genotechnic communities in Austria. Many communities have decided by political decision not to accept genetic engineering in their agriculture. However, these communities do not have a party position under this genetic engineering law. Another fauxpas, which is unable to get the optimal out. For these reasons, Mrs Federal Minister, we are only left – and we have already told you that in committee – to recommend that this change be resettled. I therefore request that the report of the Health Committee on the Government template 617 of the Supplements, the Federal Act amending the Genetics Act and the Food Act 1975, be referred back to the Committee. This is the only opportunity to really save something for Austrian agriculture and food safety. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And now to Federal Minister Pröll! After all, you will have the opportunity to address some of the questions. In any case, you have not yet adopted any legal measures in your own field of action to protect Austrian agriculture from genetic engineering. This is a fact, ladies and gentlemen, because all the legislative measures that have existed so far have not been decided by you, but by the predecessors or other departments. There is no legislative initiative from your place of business that would have already been decided, and that is what it is about, Minister of State. You're in office long enough! Please don't talk to the countries either! Obviously there are initiatives at country level. Only that all responsibility will be postponed to the countries, ladies and gentlemen, however, shows absolutely clearly that you are not aware of your competence. You're failing here! They give up your competence and shift responsibility to the countries. It can't be! A single federal framework is needed to ensure uniform standards for the federal states. This is not the case at present. Mrs. Federal Minister! The only law that has been passed at country level so far is the Salzburg Genetics Prevention Act. That's since 1. ==References== The Carinthian law is still a template. Upper Austria has a law of prohibition which is being tried to enforce in Brussels on the legal basis. We too, Mr Federal Minister, miss any real support. What have you done so far to strengthen the right to self-determination of the regions at EU level? What have you done to introduce the strictest criteria in the Genetic Engineering Act? - You didn't do anything! The question of liability, ladies and gentlemen, is, from a farming point of view, really impossible to settle. Imagine the following specific case: A organic farmer who, if he wants to deliver his corn harvest to his marketer, suddenly has to find that his harvest has a genetic contamination of more than 1 percent, can no longer sell his maize. What does he have to do? How can he complain? He cannot go to the judge, not go to a court to bring an action there – no, this farmer/this farmer must go to an arbitration office in the agricultural chamber. Ladies and gentlemen! It is necessary to go to the Chamber of Agriculture to agree by law in arbitration before a court of the Chamber by force. The farmers are obliged to proceed in this way! In the whole Austrian legal system, there is no such thing as that one cannot sue compensation immediately. A mediation procedure on a voluntary basis, yes, but not mandatory! That's just a tactic of wear! The farmer does not get his money; he has to wait for months to fix the damage. If there is no agreement in arbitration proceedings, he needs a confirmation from this Chamber Court. With this confirmation he then goes to a proper court to complain. Ladies and gentlemen! But that's not all. As soon as he complains, he must also pay the costs for the arbitration court. The farmer takes over the costs incurred by the Chamber of Agriculture so that he can complain at all. That's incredible, Minister of State! And that's where you're talking about a good liability solution? Finally, it is also about the return of the burden of proof, as you state here, this halfhearted solution. Any genetic engineering user who can be credible that the damage is not caused by him is out of the tailor, and the organic farmer has the full burden of proof again. That's the reality! – Read the bill! [[Abg. Wittauer: This is exactly the opposite!]] Do you know what that means to be “believable ”? Every user will say: Yes, look, I have properly complied with the relevant application rules, I have fulfilled the corresponding requirements of the seed producer! – And as a organic farmer, do you have a confirmation that at the Mähndrescher XY a cleaning was actually carried out before it was driven on your field? It's et cetera, et cetera. There are thousands of arguments, Minister of State, we know that. In this context, it is also clear that: Do not try to hide again and again behind the Federal Minister Renate Künast today. Excuse me, but you are simply too broad to do so, and you should also know, Federal Minister, that the initially much stricter proposals by Mrs Künast in Germany have been substantially weakened by your party colleagues. So that can't be it! We are here in Austria, and we have Austrian laws to protect our country from genetic engineering. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Also, Mr Federal Minister, do not frustrate your efforts to do so in Brussels. We expect that from you, but there are also very clear decisions here from the House. We have jointly decided on a request within the EU's Main Committee to ask you to continue to represent the genetic engineering moratorium at EU level and to support its maintenance. Federal Minister! In this respect, they are merely expressing the opinion of this House. So don't put it like it's your private opinion! [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] Finally, I have to say clearly to you: They act classically in the field of genetic engineering like an annual market housekeeper. First, you promise to work for the freedom of genetic engineering of agriculture, but when it really comes to the matter, you remain inactive. Lip confessions, yes, but the concrete implementations, the legal measures that you owe us. From our point of view, therefore, your failure is simply unbearable and your disregard for the wishes of the Austrian population. So you can't deal with 1.2 million Austrians who have said that they don't want a genetic engineering food really clear and clear by the genetic engineering people's desire. I would therefore ask all the colleagues here in the House to support our motion for a resolution, which will also be distributed, which includes a genetic protection package, from which we have already put very many proposals in the Committee, Mrs Federal Minister, on ensuring the existence of non-genotechnic agriculture in Austria. It's a chance to set a signal. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would remind you that you said in committee: Yes, we can talk about it further. That is exactly where I would ask you to continue to talk about it before this law is passed. Let's try to prevent the worst! Federal Minister Pröll! As far as our demand in the agricultural environment programme for anchoring non-genotechnic seed as a support condition is concerned, I have not yet experienced a willingness to talk, and I think you have the opportunity to finally open this door here today. Then our distrust may have a little less meaning and less authority. However, as long as you do not follow this path, our distrust remains true, especially when we remember that the EU member Slovenia has already implemented these measures. Federal Minister Pröll! Your inactivity is unbearable, you finally act instead of giving lip confessions! Your answers have so far been completely inadequate – I will see what you have to say – and confirm our distrust. At last take care of your responsibility, and protect You have the genetic and biological agriculture in Austria! That would be necessary.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e7451	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pirklhuber has been presented in his key points and is considered to be tabled. According to § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure shall also be distributed to Members and shall be accompanied by the Stenographical Protocol. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e7558	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pröll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e7580	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This mistrust on a subject which I do not have to answer in my place of business gives me the opportunity to take stock of the environmental policy that has been successful for over a year and a half. [[The Greens shall keep tables up to date.]] I am also very pleased that the Taferl classics arrived from the green area and express their opinion in this area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Four major priorities in environmental policy in this country and in Europe are to be clarified accordingly. The first is the question of how to deal with genetic engineering in the future. It is about clarifying the genetic engineering issue in Europe and Austria. Second topic: consistent follow-up to the climate change objective, a global, European, but also national challenge. Thirdly, the development of an important environmental policy theme, namely to allow eco electricity. I would also like to speak on every point. And as the fourth big area – especially important for our children –: Action for clean air in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e7610	Mr. Federal Minister, if I may interrupt you briefly. I should like to ask the honourable Members to get their signs back. - Thank you many times. Please, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e7634	Now they've been trying so hard and have to pick up the signs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On the question of genetic engineering, many things have been said, and I also say quite clearly and clearly to you: Emotions alone have no place in this important area. It is a matter of finding answers to a global challenge, which we also have to answer nationally. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For years Austria has been the spearhead in Europe in preventing the approval of genetically modified products. With the moratorium, with us at the top and with other countries, we have so far succeeded in not allowing genetically modified products. I have not seen anyone at this time in Europe, especially from the green area, on our side, when it came to fighting genetic engineering. ÖVP ministers in agriculture and the environment have always been consistently present. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's not true at all!]] In Austria, we have a regulation with the Seed-Gentechnik Regulation, which has now set a trend in Europe: 0.1 percent as a pollutant threshold. We are currently discussing a new regulation in Europe, and Austria serves as an example in the discussion, and we have succeeded in holding back what the Commission originally wanted, that is to say, much higher limits. Now for implementation: Genetics law in Austria. My personal objective as an environmental and agricultural politician is quite clear, namely to ensure, together with Maria Rauch-Kallat, that genetic engineering is kept as far away as possible when planting Austria. [[Abg. Wittauer: And with us!]] This objective is to be implemented at the federal level with the Genetic Engineering Act, and together with the federal states, we will also implement this objective in the establishment of genetic engineering-free zones point by point. A number of countries have already submitted legislation on this subject, and we are working out the plan we have coordinated between the Federal Government and countries. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The genetic engineering law is therefore necessary – since I would like to return to what honourable Member Pirklhuber said about Renate Künast – because some in Europe have already adopted the withdrawal of genetic engineering authorisation. I quote Renate Künast from a press conference in Vienna, printed in the newspaper “Die Presse” of 21. July 2004 – an interesting sentence –: On one of the burning topics, however, Künast said clear text, much sharper than Pröll ever before: We have to allow genetic engineering. – That’s what Renate Künast, ladies and gentlemen, said: clearer than Pröll ever before – because I don’t want genetic engineering in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Look at this!]] [[Abg. Prince: Incredible!]] We have now given the national answer with the Genetic Engineering Act. A public register will be an incredible challenge for all those who want to apply genetic engineering. I am still in Europe to keep genetic engineering away. If this fails, we have the register, with clear liability arrangements we have given the decisive answers in order to achieve what we want, namely to keep genetic engineering out as far as possible. I'm coming back to Fritz Grillitsch. I don't know any farmers in Austria who come to us actively and say he's going to rely on genetic engineering. If someone comes up with the idea, we have set a clear legal framework with this genetic engineering law. The focus is clearly on those we want to protect, including the assessment of the law: Organic farmers as well as conventional farmers who do not want to apply genetic engineering. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: It's not in the law!]] The law is the clear answer. Ladies and gentlemen! The second point, away from genetic engineering, is climate policy. No one else has used so much in the last one and a half years in order to realize what we have committed ourselves to in Kyoto – a minus 13 percent on the basis of 1990 CO2 emissions. A package of measures on emissions trading will start in the coming months. The Austrian industry has had difficult discussions, and we have established emissions trading in Austria. In these three years we launched the budget plus 30, plus 60, plus 90 million – millions for climate protection! Ladies and gentlemen! We will be able to reach the target for biofuels – 5.75 percent by addition – much more ambitious than the European Union, which only wanted to achieve in 2010, already in 2008. This creates value added, we create jobs in rural areas, and we contribute 1 million tonnes of CO2 to achieving climate policy objectives. In the field of environmental promotion, we have shared together in three years – many in this House are also represented in the bodies that allocate this funding – 195 million euros in funding volume, saving 2.5 million tonnes of CO2 and thus contributing to the climate strategy. Third point: (b) to allow for the development of green electricity. Ladies and gentlemen, especially the Greens! We had an eco electricity law with a target of 4 percent in 2008. On the basis of an alliance of the Chamber of Labour, the economy and industry, a draft that, from my point of view, was not feasible for various reasons. We then held a very intense discussion and achieved a result that can be seen: We cover the increase of € 17 million per year. We reach not only the 4 percent by 2008, but we almost double the amount by 2010: in two years from 4 to 7 percent, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In addition to the focus on biomass and the focus on biogas, we also allow a development in photovoltaics together with the federal states. Now on a subject which you, Mrs Glavischnig, have raised: Wind power. We have seen an incredible development in the wind power in recent years throughout Austria! You know better than I do. In almost all projects on the ground, we have come across the resistance of green-moving citizens' initiatives if we want to build wind turbines. [[Call the ÖVP: Here look!]] [[Contradict with the Greens.]] Do you want to know more? – For example, Kobern except forest in Upper Austria. [[Abg. Brosz: In the Waldviertel we would like to know!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] For the kubers, the corresponding permits lie with the competent national councils of the country of Upper Austria. We have often felt the resistance on the ground in the wind power – I said, green-motivated citizens’ initiatives – and we have therefore approved a meaningful development in the future, but we have slowed down the dynamics in the development of wind power, not least because we have already presented the best areas accordingly. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: This is a really very unfair argument to push it into the shoes of the citizens that the Chamber of Commerce has blocked it!]] Fourth point, ladies and gentlemen Ladies and gentlemen: Action for clean air. This federal government has 1st. In January 2004, the fuels were sulphur-free. We have thus achieved a dramatic, significant improvement in air quality. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have given an important and correct answer to the question of fine dust problems, particularly in urban areas, with the promotion of diesel particle filters or similar technologies. With a tax incentive, we have managed to discharge air quality from next year on, especially for children and older people. I am convinced that this will also make the automotive industry see the trend change across Europe and that this new technology is getting stronger and stronger so that the air is improved in the transport sector. I would like to say something about two points that you have raised – one of them yesterday: the environmental impact assessment. Yes, we have, for the first time, clearly and clearly implemented what many have called for, namely a stronger citizen participation by NGOs in the EIA-Novelle yesterday. Overall, a reasonable response was given with the EIA-Novelle for environmental protection and for important infrastructure projects. This too is another milestone on the way to a sustainable future for this country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: That's where the uncle's head of state has won!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to the question of Temelín and the anti-atomic movement, one must also argue fairly and clearly in this extremely sensitive question. We are in the “Melker Process” in a very interesting and exciting phase because the experts are really working out point by point. I would ask that what has happened there, i.e. the question of partial authorisation, be properly reflected. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Ten years! Submission for ten years!]] There is no final collusion for this project, but a partial approval. This does not conflict with the requirements of the ‘Melker process’ and of the Brussels decisions. It is also necessary to argue fairly and clearly on this issue, as we are together – Austria and the Czech Republic – on the way to making Temelín as safe as possible. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, on the principle issue that concerns me. In my department, sustainability is a great guiding principle. It often seems to me that some of the three pillars that carry this roof of sustainability are always only singular: ecology, economic orientation and the social component. If you always put on a pillar, the roof of sustainability will collapse. We need to see the whole thing. I have clearly negotiated, for example in the question of eco electricity, in order to give an ecological answer to the economic and social challenges. We in this Federal Government ensure that we make sustainable, social and just policies. This has a positive impact on quality of life. Mrs Glavischnig said she was active in the NGOs for 15 years and five years here in Parliament. – Yes: a lot of talk, a lot of demonstrations. - We're acting! This is the future for this country!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e7868	Mr Pirklhuber spoke on an actual correction. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e7889	Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Minister has here said that the Greens would not have done anything at European level to ensure that agriculture remains free from genetic engineering. I am indeed correct that our MEPs in the European Parliament, in particular the Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Friedrich-Wilhelm Graefe zu Baringdorf, and our colleague Hiltrud Breyer, in the Committee on the Environment, have put forward a wide range of initiatives and applications to enable non-genotechnic seed and non-genotechnic regions in Europe and to enforce the strictest labelling rules. That's what's on your way, Mr. Federal Minister! I am also correcting the fact that what you have said here is that the protection of organic and non-genotechnic agriculture in this legislative novel was mentioned in the target provisions. [[Abg. Grill: Is that a correction?]] [[Abg. Hornek: This is not an actual correction!]] [[Abg. Steibl: This is a speech!]] Unfortunately, I can only correct you in so far as this is nowhere. You can show me where this is contained. I didn't find it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e7952	The next speaker was Mrs Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e7970	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. High house! Maxime of any result-oriented policy must be the recognition of facts, and the fact is that the EU has unfortunately adopted a fundamentally positive attitude on genetic engineering issues. We in Austria have rightly not done so. We are far more respectful and respectful of all the issues that concern genetic engineering and the genomics as the center of life. We want to take the greatest care. In particular, we liberals adhere to this principle. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For all other reasons, we pay great attention to the health of the population – especially the long-term health – and the environmental impact. As has been said, the EU has decided differently. For the EU, economic interests are in the foreground, as is often the case here. The directive came into force in spring 2001, which in principle allowed the release of genetically modified foods. As a result, Austria has joined forces with six other states to form a moratorium, stating that it will not implement this Directive until the issue of labelling and traceability has been resolved. In the autumn of 2001, these regulations came into force, and the closing of the moratorium states began to break. An extension of the moratorium was no longer to be thought of. That's what I'm holding here: As so often, the dam is broken in Brussels. There is now the need – also to prevent worse – to introduce this directive into Austrian law. I hold fast to this and do not want to hide the freedom of movement for maximum safety measures. To give honor to the truth, Minister: This law is what was to be obtained from you. It is a compromise in our view. Nevertheless, the interpretation made by the previous speaker Krainer that the EU would have had the opportunity to keep Austria free from genetic engineering is a paradoxical movement of actual circumstances. [[Abg. Krainer: Read Directive!]] In fact, it's exactly the other way round! This is a mistake of the objective. [[Abg. Krainer: Read the policy!]] The EU has put itself very clearly on the side of those who wanted to allow these genetically modified foods and organisms. In this respect, of course, the reference to your colleague, Künast, has already been made. Even if we do not want to see ourselves in Brussels – in the best of all worlds, free to live in Voltaire – we are going to have to do things there with contradiction, because there are the framework conditions with which we are to live here. It is a very impotent and unrealistic plan to let things happen in Brussels or in the EU, in order to maintain in Austria the opinion that what comes from there should actually be sabotaged here. You'll have to see it differently! With this law, which is a compromise for us – I repeat! – has been done politically.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e8035	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e8054	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Trust was at first, distrust is justified in many ways today. I should like to point it out once again. [[Abg. Scheibner: Are you submitting the application now?]] Mr Grillitsch! They have meant that the consumers and also the farmers in Austria say no to genetic engineering. There's quite a point of view. There's confidence. But today you are adopting a genetic engineering law aimed at promoting genetic engineering. Sorry Please: There's distrust! I can't. [[Abg. Grill: Then you didn't get it!]] Mr Grillitsch, you have also said that we need a common path towards sustainability. However, I do not fully trust you, because the specific law does not provide for the existence of non-genotechnic agriculture in the objectives. [[Call the ÖVP:Set, learn!]] [[Abg. Grill: Read again!]] I'm sorry, but there's distrust in the square, and very serious mistrust! I've read it carefully, and you know, you don't need to get out of there. This is a matter of principle. If I define fundamental questions, I also have to include them in the objectives. The objectives do not, however, comply with the intentions of agriculture, the various farmers active there, nor with the intentions of consumers. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Minister, you have now wanted to make us aware that you are, as it were, the spearhead in Europe. – May be, I could never watch you there. But now here in Parliament you are anything but a spearhead, because otherwise, on the very central issue of liability, you would probably have to anchor and decide much stricter legal provisions than those you are presenting. What about the turn of evidence? What about a total debt? This is not relevant in these legal templates. Mrs Minister, you yourself are always pleading for health policy to be primarily involved in prevention. I underline this and support you, but you have to support yourself once and take precautions for health reasons that in Austria we can maintain a GMO-free agriculture in all facets and in all zones. That is why, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] An essential support and an essential steering instrument of this very conservative starting point of maintaining and preserving it – we are pleading for that! – is the public service programme. I do not understand at all why you do not make genetic engineering freedom in the ÖPUL programme as a promotion requirement and why you do not guarantee that seeds will only be produced free of genetic engineering in the future. There you yourself are unbelievable, and you have not been able to correct this in any way with your statements here before us. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: He didn't say anything about it! Not answered!]] There you stay unbelievable, and unfortunately you deserve our distrust in many ways! – This is the first complex. Secondly, Mr Minister, you have spoken a lot about climate change and sustainability. Oekostrom was a great purpose, a big project of yours, which you have also quite ambitiously addressed. However, they – you have also admitted it yourself – went to their knees in front of the other two pillars mentioned by you, namely the economic pillar and the social pillar, the sustainability. Otherwise, it cannot be imagined and not explained that there is a reduction in the volume of compensation for eco electricity to one sixth of the level of 2004. They can be reduced to a sixth in the policy of sustainability, in the policy of alternative energy sources! This is a scandal for us, and this deserves mistrust, Minister. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They have referred to the fact that the wind power, which has spread very quickly across the countries, and which was also very fast – that was the economic efficiency in the light of the current funding conditions – there are civilian resistances. Yes, and in Upper Austria we have also developed a really good tool for dialogue. There are round tables in Upper Austria in all environmental problems, and there will also be a consensual solution when it develops. I guarantee you. This is the sustainable and forward-looking path of a policy that will be taken together in Upper Austria. This is quite the case, and not the way in which you partially disregard the perspective in Vienna from 2010 onwards, where we will really need other energy sources, because then we will probably hardly be able to afford the oil anymore. You know that very well, Minister. Therefore, an argument about your presentation regarding the air quality: On the car-free day, you probably let the ring lock. Just, my goodness, what am I reading a few days later? – Minister Pröll for the North motorway. Excuse me, what should this have to do with sustainable transport policy? Minister Pröll for the North motorway – and today you are talking again about the initiative for clean air. There we are suspicious. That deserves mistrust. Either one is for a sustainable transport policy in the sense of sustainable cycling, as you personally practice it as well as I do, or one promotes through the press motorway buildings that are itself – that is the interesting thing! – in no way can economics be expected, because the frequency, the further you come to the north, only more than one-third or one-fifth of which is the norm in the vicinity of Vienna. This is an inefficient project, and you know exactly when you create your pillars of sustainability – ecological, economic and social – that you are putting something into the world here, which is completely counterproductive in terms of environmental policy, transport policy and, above all, in the sense of sustainability. With such statements, you are instigating distrust, Minister. Now perhaps one aspect is a short one: the biofuels. You have to look at it very differently. There are certain perspectives that we share when this biofuel is produced environmentally sustainable, but one also reads very critical voices in “Economic & Environment”, because – you can read it yourself – when you create the account, it can often become a very expensive alternative. And that's why you'd better avoid traffic. Finally: One of the main aspects of sustainability is the question of nuclear energy and the departure from it, of nuclear power as such. And since, Mr Minister, you have to make it clear to me why the Milk Agreement is not broken if the commercial operation of the Temelín nuclear power station is already fully guaranteed. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] To the full extent it is produced there! This is not a partial permit, as you have it put it, that is full commercial use. Please disprove that! All the parts of the power plant are running, there are incidents, and you are leaning back and saying: Oh, my God! This is just a partial permit, it has nothing to do with the milking process. We're on the line. Yes, Minister, you are in line with nuclear policy. This is my problem, and that is why we are expressing this distrust here and today. This is a breach of trust that we feel very, very deep and against which we have to fight massively. There you can't retreat with a look to heaven, that's useless. Please listen to your colleagues, Mr Pühringer, in Upper Austria. He sees a clear violation of the Milk Agreement. Look at Upper Austria! Legal action against this infringement is being taken there. There one does not lean back like in Vienna, where in the upholstered chair the milker agreement may be washed back and forth and said: After my goodness, as far as it's not yet come, we don't have the commercial operation!, although you read daily in the newspaper that already 100 percent are switched on and the plant is fully in commercial use. Minister! These examples – I think there were three or four – prove very well that you have unfortunately left your course. We want to encourage you again for an offensive environmental course. And therefore to the current status of genetic engineering, nuclear power and eco electricity: No, thank you! That's not how we want it. Distrust is justified.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e8192	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hütl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e8210	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, “A gene is not a poison,” says Innsbruck University Professor Johann Hofmann from the Institute of Medical Chemistry and Biochemistry in the “Tyrol daily newspaper”. However, he is also speaking, in a sense, of an inaccurate discussion, as I would like to express once in advance. But I do not want to talk about genetic engineering. We are critical of this issue. For years, the Federal Minister Pröll has tried to keep genetic engineering away from agriculture, and he continues to try to do so. But at European level it is now allowed and it is reality to grow genetically modified plants. We have to implement this directive – we are already late – and this law includes, among other things, a clear and enforceable liability for possible damage that may result from the cultivation of such plants. The moratorium states, which have already been mentioned today, including France, Italy, Denmark, Greece, Luxembourg, Belgium and Austria, have already declared in February 2001 that new authorisations of GMO products in Europe will not be accepted for so long, as long as certain rules on the tracking, labelling of GMOs or approval and In the case of labelling, it has been adopted, inter alia. And our Federal Minister Josef Pröll is still standing at this moratorium. This novelle today implements this directive on the deliberate release and in-transport-braking of GMOs and accompanying measures. Such provisions, such measures are uniform criteria for risk assessment, authorisation and labelling, time-limitation of authorisation, clear marking and traceability, mandatory monitoring, improved transparency and public participation. It is also important that more stringent rules on the new comprehensive safety assessment and monitoring are available. In order to monitor effectively, an accessible register has been introduced. Of particular importance are also clear liability schemes in the interests of those farmers who want to make GMO-free economies. Overall, we are talking about a balanced and practicable law. This ensures both the non-genotechnic agricultural production and the preservation of the competitiveness of domestic food. With this genetic engineering novel, the concept of protection is implemented as best as possible, as it ensures safety for both the consumer and the producer. I would also like to thank the two Federal Ministers Maria Rauch-Kallatund Josef Pröll in this regard. I can't really win the distrust request. He seems to have taken me completely out of the air, but in view of the short period of time, I would just like to point out the playground theory of Mr Kübeck in the “Small Newspaper”. So please read the following: Playground Theory of the “Small Newspaper”. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e8258	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I would like to ask honourable Member Liechtenstein to give away the telephone. Mr Wittauer, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e8280	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! High house! Mr Pirklhuber, non-genotechnic communities, that is wonderful, I support it. This is an initiative that has been taken together with the farmers, but there is no legal certainty. If a farmer leaves this legal certainty, then it is up to a mayor to say that this community is free of genetic engineering. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: The communities decide!]] I know and I support this initiative, but it is on a voluntary basis. The countries have tried – as Carinthia is an example – that has already managed to imitate other federal states, Tyrol has taken this law into account – to create, as far as possible, the conditions that are guaranteed that it is at least very difficult to use genetic engineering. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's not decided yet! That's just a template!]] I just wanted to make this clear because this has come as if every municipality is now free of genetic engineering, just because there is a joint action with the farmers. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: You have no party position at the federal level! That's the problem!]] We know all of this, but if I looked at it today, it was so that at national level we were forced to react very quickly, and the law would have been decided much earlier if we had not looked at the liberals that it was really guaranteed that it would be difficult to use genetically contaminated seeds. That's what we're doing! The EU directive sets out how genetically contaminated seed is used, and we have every opportunity, I believe, to implement it that it is as difficult as possible to do something in this area. I would like to say something to the farmers: Someone who is in public health, someone who grows organically – and that's more than 80 percent – will never take genetically contaminated seed because it would be based on it. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: They are not all in ÖPUL!]] I just want to talk to the farmers. Farmers are enough to look at them and know what they are growing. But in addition to what was essential to us, one has to say: The Künast was also involved in the fact that the moratorium did not take place. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Yeah, sure, because she didn't vote for it. Today, if we take the green policy back from the German minister – if I may repeat it again – who decrees that we will allow genetically contaminated seeds or other things, then this is not a struggle against it, but a encouragement for those who want to do it. And I have to say that is a disappointing green policy. We liberals have always stood for a genetic engineering-free Austria, and we are also committed. If – I also have to practice some criticism of the ÖVP – only the ÖVP went, it would look a little more difficult. For us, the consumer is at the heart of the consumer's interest, and the consumer wants it. We have also ensured that there are uniform criteria for risk assessment. The shift in liability, the reverse of evidence is, of course, an essential factor. It's not like you said the organic farmer has a problem. Of course, it's the one that produces genetic engineering, or from me it's from the machine ring. Sure, because I have an account that insists that this seed is free of genetic engineering. That was our concern, and we have also implemented it with the Minister of Justice. It wasn't that easy because some didn't want it that way. We therefore have much more transparency and public participation, which is also an advantage. And if you take the review of the existing authorisations or of the future, it is of course already so that we have done everything we can to make it difficult for the authorisation of genetically contaminated seeds or genetically contaminated organisms. The aim of this government is to prevent, but we cannot implement an EU directive requiring the framework for genetically contaminated seed, and to go here and do what you say. We decide on a law for this – of course, that is EU directive – but we decide on the law in such a way that it is almost impossible for everyone from the risk of using genetically contaminated seed in Austria. That is an essential point, and that should be said. Minister Pröll's distrust, where you always loved him so much, was always very friendly, and now the eco electricity law is incomprehensible. 17 million euros a year – now I'm going to charge you this once – times ten, times six – that's the years – so 1.02 billion euros are used for the entire period. Then come the eleventh and the twelfth years, that's again 127 million €. And that's nothing?- Oh, my God! Nearly €1.2 billion is used in the eco electricity for renewable energy. And that's nothing?- Oh, my God! So I don't know where you're going to get the finances back, but that's an increase. We are now over 4 percent, and we will be able to reach 7 to 8 percent by 2008. You would never have achieved that! This was particularly liberal manuscript, because we have always called for it and not necessarily the Greens. Because in your case, it is always important to hinder, negative and present. I call on you to withdraw this motion of censure! It is better to support this government on its way to a genetic engineering-free Austria. We liberals will work for it, we liberals stand for it, and I hope that you are a little blatant and that your un- and half-truths will not continue to be proclaimed out here.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e8367	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Scheucher-Pichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e8386	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't understand the green line. I mean, I don't understand them more often, but not today either. In the morning, you gave us healthy, fresh – but it was at least one line, Mrs. Collaborator, Apferl. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig]] Thank you. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber keeps a Sackerl up.]] They're showing the Sackerl here. By the way: It is a far too big sackerl for such a small good apple; in the sense of environmental protection far too large, the paper sackerl. In the afternoon, you make a mistrust against our ministers, against those ministers who ensure that our farmers, our fruit producers have good conditions. I think it is also important to say thank you for their great work. It really must be said thank you, because no one has yet done so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They leave the path of constructive work. Especially at Federal Minister Pröll and at Mrs. Federal Minister Rauch-Kallat, I have always felt that there is a very constructive discourse. They leave the constructive way by leaving today the producers, but also the consumers in Austria. They abandon them by not responding to the EU's requirements – what we do with this bill. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's no answer!]] Our Federal Minister answers what happened in the EU. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: These are for the promotion of genetic engineering!]] This is necessary and a warm thank you for that. Thank you very much for this, because this law is objective, it is balanced, this law brings safety to consumers and producers, and the idea of protection – the very idea of protection that you are talking about all the time – is at the heart of this law. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: How does this fit in with the promotion of genetic engineering?]] All those who reject genetically modified organisms, products, food are protected. That's a fact. We decide today. They are insecure – we are acting! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: The promotion of genetic engineering is laid down in the regulations! The promotion!]] You can still shout so loud! The establishment of a genetic engineering register alone – which has already been mentioned several times today; the Federal Minister for Smoking, Mr Pröll, mentioned it already – in which everyone has to register with a commitment to grow genetically modified plants, only this is a very important aspect, please. For example, potential causers can be identified more quickly. This is a very important aspect. They're looking out of here. We act – you are insecure, you look away! We act – you are insecure! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The rules governing liability: Especially with regard to liability, there are clear and easily enforceable liability conditions for possible damages here, so that a damage can and can also be announced in court as quickly as possible and crediblely as possible. Also, the fact of genetically modified labelling – and you don't want to realize that too – is a very important aspect that makes it easier for consumers to decide. This is important to us, because we are at the heart of the consumers, but also of the agricultural holdings in Austria. And this is what our Federal Minister Pröll stands for, to which you are quite wrong in expressing your distrust today. It stands for a sustainable course, it stands for a reality-related course, and we also stand by the ÖVP.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e8489	Mr Doppler has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e8507	Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen to the National Council! The government proposal to the Federal Act amending the Genetic Engineering Act has been debated in great detail today, and I would like here at the end of this debate to give only a summary of the essential points in today's debate. I would also like to make it clear here that it did not necessarily come about by itself, but that there is also a history and a history of addition to this change of law. Following the Commission's letter of formal notice to several Member States, including Austria, an infringement procedure is under way for failure to implement the new Release Directive. Since September 2003, there has been a complaint to protect the interests of Austrians, i.e. consumers, to adapt Austrian genetic engineering law to the new framework conditions. Honourable Members! In order to avoid a pre-judgment by the ECJ, the Federal Government intends to implement the new directives as soon as possible and therefore to present a corresponding amendment of the law with accompanying measures to implement the corresponding regulations. The Directives lay down uniform criteria for the risk assessment of GMO release and intra-trafficking, taking into account the accumulated environmental impacts. Honourable Members! High house! Existing authorisations shall be reviewed, clear markings and measures to ensure traceability and mandatory monitoring of products placed on the market, registration of places of release and commercial cultivation shall be provided. In order to protect consumer interests, there is a clear definition of the responsibility for the implementation of regulations on genetically modified food and feed as well as the introduction of criminal provisions against infringement These regulations – these criminal provisions are based not only on the criminal provisions laid down by the European Court of Justice, but also on an Austrian criminal provision in the Austrian draft – as well as public participation through mandatory rallying and clear marking of the measures to ensure tracking. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that it is better to prepare a law, and therefore ask Members to give their consent to this proposal. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Thank you. Allow me, however, another sentence on the motion for a censure against Minister Pröll. I have to say this because I am new here in this House – that is, quite new – and I always felt that a mistrust request also needs a justification. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] However, since I have not heard a statement of reasons today, I feel called upon to call upon not to accept this motion for a reluctance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e8568	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Mayer to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e8586	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In my previous speakers, I often felt that we were talking about different materials. Do we have a draft government template different from you? When I hear the sentence: We do not abandon consumers!, then I just need to look at the text, and in this we should read that the issue of marking is by no means a hundred percent and impeccable – so, I tell you, consumers are being abandoned here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! On the morning, Federal Minister Grasser said that political credibility would only be given if the headings were in accordance with the contents. – Ladies and gentlemen, very much! In this law neither the headings nor the contents are voting. The content is not correct because errors have happened. I ask myself, Mrs Federal Minister – and I have already said this in committee – whether we will not be able to get amendments in the near future, because the citation errors are included in them. In this draft, for example, § 62 refers to § 58a Z 6 – this provision does not exist, ladies and gentlemen, very much! Or do you see the regulation in § 79k, which I consider unconstitutional, because here the labour market gardeners are excluded! I wonder how colleagues from the Chamber of Commerce are represented in relation to the labour market gardeners. But I see the big problem in the field of labelling. Since the last meeting of the Health Committee, we know that the Minister of Health is not prepared to report results, analytical results, whether correctly identified, to the public. I quote from the corresponding Regulation 1830/2003: ‘The complete and reliable information of consumers related to GMOs and products produced from these products as well as food and feed must be ensured in order to enable consumers to make an expert selection of products.’ Mrs. Federal Minister, if you do not inform consumers that it is falsely marked that GMOs are contained in canned or in pastries, I ask you: Where does the freedom of choice of consumers remain? And you have to answer that, you of the ÖVP and you of the FPÖ! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] We have similar problems in the agricultural sector, of course. Federal Minister! I asked myself why you did not tell or abstain from this House that a Council of Environment Ministers will be taking place tomorrow, an Environment Council Council, on whose agenda there is a Council decision on the in-trafficking of a genetically modified glycosate-tolerant oil rape product. Federal Minister! Would you like to agree – or would you like to agree tomorrow? We would like to take this risk here. I should therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would like to stress once again: The vote will be taken tomorrow or in the next few days! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to address the particular problem of genetically modified oil rape, which I think is well known. In this House today, you have the opportunity to force Mr Umweltminister to vote against it in Brussels. And that's what we're inviting you to do! [[Abg. Grillitsch: Mr Maier, this will not be useful!]] We have submitted a referral request. We will also agree with the Greens' request, assuming that point 2 of the Greens' request does not mean red genetic engineering, but green genetic engineering. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We invite you to represent a credible policy here – and not only to talk about headlines, but also to represent the content accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e8655	The motion for a resolution, which has been drawn up by Mr Maier, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e8706	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pröll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e8724	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Maier said something again, which is typical: This is not a debate tomorrow! It's shifted to December. [[Abg. May. Maier keeps a document up to date.]] I know exactly what points are on the agenda tomorrow in the Environment Council in Luxembourg. This point is no longer in place, it has been postponed to December. I just want to tell you about it, so I didn't say anything about it either.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e8761	The next speaker was Mrs Dr Glavischnig. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e8779	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! The ÖVP does not like it if either the coalition partner or the opposition is not good. Then the disappointment always comes: you are not cooperative, and you leave the course of cooperation. [[Abg. Murauer: That's it!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You've never been on it before!]] That's the way it is with us. Greens will always decide on matters. Wherever cooperation is possible, we will always make it. And wherever confrontation is necessary, we will also make it – and that is simply necessary today. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If I had forgotten to make the motion for a reluctance, you would have had another chance, Mr Environment Minister. [[Abg. Grillitsch: Is this an excuse for your activities now?]] And I thought maybe it's a sign of fate that I forgot it before, maybe something will come. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: Ah, reconciliation!]] - No! Two points make me even more convinced that it is right. We can't trust you anymore. Firstly, you have not said anything about all the issues of genetic engineering, promotion, the environmental programme, and you have not explained why you do not want to do so. Secondly, you – and this is something you know exactly that it is not true what you have said – have pushed out for the wind power the citizens into the shoes. They have said that the committed citizens who are concerned that this is too close to the house, who are concerned about bird protection, are guilty of it, and that is unfair. You know that's not true. [[Abg. Grill: But that's true! There are enough examples!]] It was the pressure of the Minister for Economic Affairs, the Industrial Union, the E-Control – and not the citizens! We both know it very well, everyone knows it wasn't like that – and that was unfair, that was very unfair! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Grill:... Municipal Council decisions!]] That is why, out of my conviction, I am now submitting the following motion of censure:
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e8918	The motion for a resolution, which has been read by Mrs Glawischnig, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e9062	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We first come to the vote on the amendments tabled by Mr Krainer, colleagues and Dr Pirklhuber, colleagues, to refer the matter back to the Committee on Health. I shall vote on these requests under one. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of referral back to the House to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority, and this rejects the request. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 617 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority, and with that the draft law has been adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – This is also the majority; the draft law was adopted at third reading. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Glawischnig, ladies and gentlemen, on ensuring the existence of non-genotechnic agriculture in Austria – a genetic protection package. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority, and so the request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, on preventing the placing on the market of a genetically modified glyphosate-tolerant oil rape product. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority, and this rejects the request. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Glawischnig, ladies and gentlemen, on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management in accordance with Art. 74 para. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act. In view of the fact that such a decision is taken by the National Council in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this paragraph. I expressly note the presence of half of the Members of Parliament in the terms of the Constitution quoted above. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to accept it. – This is the minority, and this rejects the request. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Brosz: (in the direction of President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn) But first look!]] Request by Mr Alfred Gusenbauer, Members of Parliament, concerning the grant of a uniform national heating aid (455/A) (E)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e9155	We now come to the urgent treatment of the self-employed proposal 455/A (E). As he has now approached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e9268	I give the floor to Mr Gusenbauer as the applicant for the reasons for the urgent request. According to § 74a para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed its term of office for 20 minutes. Mr applicant, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e9290	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Interestingly, the Federal Government is represented by Mr Morak State Secretary on the government bank. [[Call the ÖVP: Good man!]] This is also a good symbol of what the Federal Government has money for: For the birthday celebrations of Mr Morak already, not for the people who will freeze in winter. – This is the balance sheet that this federal government represents. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: This is a naughtiness! What happened to the chief? -Humpel birthday party?]] [[Abg. Amon: Last class!]] [[Abg. Murauer: And the Summer Festival of Gusenbauer? That also pays the taxpayer!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Contrary to the self-provoking of the Minister of Finance today morning, the situation for more and more people in Austria is getting harder and colder and colder in the coming winter. When we take the last poverty report back, we see that this one speaks of it... [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] – I know that you are not interested in the fate of the people in Austria, you have already proved this many times, ladies and gentlemen, dear! [[Abg. May. Hakl: Yes! Yes!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The poverty report assumes that around one million people in Austria are at risk of poverty. Of these, 310 000 people in Austria live in acute poverty. A third of the poverty population is children, and the trend towards poverty is, unfortunately, increasing in Austria. The last pension policy rules in particular mean that due to the non-adjustment of pensions to the rate of inflation in recent years, a gross pension of €1,000 has been devalued by around 5.5 per cent, resulting in an annual loss of more than €800 in the case of such a low pension alone. The last decisions on the reduction in pensions and the forthcoming decisions on the harmonisation of pensions will result in the average male pension in Austria falling by around €1,000 and the average female pension of €700 will continue to fall. That means: More and more people, especially older people in Austria, are increasingly getting into the poverty trap. [[Abg. Großruck: You love Moscow, Mr. Gusenbauer! Abg. Ell Wall: Go back to kissing ground!]] [[Abg. Scheibner:... Pope Visit...!]] . I know, Mr Commissioner, that you assume that the incense of the Minister of Finance also warms everyone else and not only him himself, but that you will not be able to deal with the social problems of the Austrian population. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The social gap in Austria is growing, also expressed by the fact that the real income of the Austrians has not increased in recent years, but that – quite the contrary – the real net income of the working population has reached the 1996 level due to the burden policy of this Federal Government. That means: Although people are working more and more, increasingly hard work, competition is becoming more and more sharp, real net wages have fallen back to 1996. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is so unbelievably clear from this morning, but much toughened “social justice” in this black and blue government to feel nothing at all. Under this government, most of the citizens in Austria are getting poorer, ladies and gentlemen. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] The poverty conference notes that in Austria around one billion euros a year would be needed to cope with the most urgent cases of poverty reduction. A billion € would be enough to help at least those 376,000 who live in acute poverty. [[Abg. Big truck: 3 billion makes the tax reform, not one!]] –Should I tell you something, Mr. Großruck? – Your tax reform does not help these people at all! [[Abg. Grossruck:... don't pay any more taxes!]] It only helps those who sometimes need it least, and that is the problem with your policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In particular, these people are affected by a wide variety of tax increases, tax increases in recent years. Especially in pensioners' households, in people who have the minimum pension, in social assistance workers, the fixed proportions for housing and heating costs are to a much greater extent striking than in people with higher incomes. For example, a pensioner wrote me a letter in which he said he was a minimum pensioner – I have to believe what is here – and I have 557 € early pension, then of course the compensation allowance, he pays 173 € per month rent and has electricity and gas costs of 165 € as well as 25 € telecommunications costs. The question of what do these people live on? [[Abg. Grossruck: Where does he live?]] What's left of them? [[Abg. Großruck: If he lives in Grieskirchen, he gets a heating grant! Not in Vienna!]] Exactly for these people, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, if a cold winter is to be expected, you need a corresponding support. That is why we need a heating allowance for those people in Austria who are really socially in need. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The heating costs represent a large share of the available income for many people, but never before have the heating costs increased as much as last year, never before so strongly increased! [[State Secretary Morak: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: In Vienna above all!]] A woman from Gmünd – Mr Scheibner, speaking to the people in Austria – told me a lot, I would recommend this to you – about their increased fuel oil costs and sent the bill of last year as well as that of this year. [[Abg. Scheibner: In Vienna the electricity costs! Look at this! Electricity and gas!]] The following can be found in this list – this is a two-family house, therefore annual consumption of 4 000 litres of fuel oil –: Last year's bill 1 490 €, invoice in this year 2 100 €. – These are at least more than 600 € in the year! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! This type of cost increase for the entire Austrian population, which, of course, can carry much, much less, simply to wipe away with a hand movement of the low estimate – should I say something to you? – social cynicism and has nothing to do with socially responsible politics. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Interesting in this debate on heating costs is that it is not only those who have larger houses or single-family houses, but also those who have an average consumption, with an extremely average consumption, that each Austrian household alone has to expect additional costs this year due to the increases in energy prices of at least 200 to 300 €. Now you'll say: There's nothing we can do to make oil more expensive! What are we going to do about it? My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Many people earn the higher oil prices, that's right. The international oil companies deserve to do so, and the producer countries deserve it, as well as the international speculators on the commodity exchanges. But one who deserves a lot of money on increased rosil travel is the Minister of Finance. This is the one who only has to sit at the cash desk every day and take in his share of what Austrians pay more. As evidenced by the Ministry of Finance's own figures, this year's price increases for oil and petrol will lead to additional incomes of € 270 million. In addition, the increases in taxes on coal and coke that you have introduced will be added to this figure of €400 million by the Minister of Finance alone. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! These are, after all, over 5 billion schillings, with which he was not allowed to expect, which are not in the budget. These are 5 billion schillings, which are his dividends in that energy prices are so high and that he cashes his share of them. Mr. Klubobmann Molterer! If you then say in the press hour: Heating cost allowance – everything good and beautiful, but that is why the countries should take care of themselves, because they are responsible!, then I must say: That is already an irresponsible process! On the one hand, as a confederation, to cash all the extra income and then to say at the same time, but the social support should be taken care of by the countries, so easily, ladies and gentlemen, the government cannot steal itself from the responsibility! [[Abg. May. Molterer: The countries have nothing?]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] If you say, Mr Molterer, that they would also be part of the revenue, I would advise you: Take additional hours with your Upper Austrian head of state, Pühringer, who has publicly said, countries and communities get 14 percent of the revenue, the rest gets the federal government! Therefore, it calls for the Federal Government to pay at least half of a federal heating aid because the additional revenue is also due. Mr Molterer. That's what I'd say: Go to your head of state, let him explain how this can be financed! He obviously has a more realistic view in this case than you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Is there a heating grant in Vienna or not?]] I am truly grateful that Mr Klubobmann Molterer immediately mentions Häupl and Vienna. This is a very bright opportunity to clarify once and for all my honourable ladies and gentlemen, the permanent mess that is always carried out by the government groups in relation to Vienna. To the difference from all the other federal states – listen and inform yourself! – there is automatically a heating aid of € 67.24 per month for all social assistance providers in Vienna – and the country is responsible for this. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] You should take an example of social Vienna, Mr Klubobmann Molterer, instead of constantly polemizing here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Molterer.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! No other federal state – no other federal country! – provides as much heating aid as the Federal Capital of Vienna does for the weakest of the population. You should touch your own nose whenever you always try to push the problems off. Vienna has made its contribution. Mr. Klubobmann Molterer! We agree that the situation of pensioners, the situation of emergency workers, the situation of small incomes is not a matter of social assistance, but is a common federal matter. And I'm asking you: Why are you so rough? Why don't you want to return of the €400 million additional revenue, which is not even in the budget, which is simply so here-flattered because of the high international oil prices, to the weakest of the population €150 million in the form of a federal heating aid? You will still be left with €250 million, which is not in the budget you have never been allowed to expect and which will be financed by the Austrian population as a whole by higher energy and oil prices. In any case, it is only a part that we demand, a part for those who need it most of all. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It should not make the bureaucratic obstacles too high. For example, at the request of the Social Democracy during the period 2000/2001 – at the time the government was still in the process – the decision was taken on the grant of a heating grant. But I have to tell you, ladies and gentlemen: The Public Procuratorate has examined how this heating aid has been handled. Due to the complicated rules, the application, the short deadline for the application are only 18.9 percent – I emphasize: 18.9 percent! – the heating grant decided on was paid because most of those who might have been entitled to it were not informed at all that they had this option. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In its report, the Public Prosecutors' Office unanimously proposed to Parliament that, in the future, a heating allowance should again be granted to pension insurance providers to automatically transfer this heating allowance with the pension payments for the agreed time, so that the people who need it do not fail in bureaucratic obstacles, but actually do so. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! What we Socialists are calling for today is not undue. Winter will be hard, winter will be cold, the heating costs of the Austrian population will explode, and the poorest of the poor will not be able to afford it. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] And I'll tell you: If you laugh arrogantly here, then bear the responsibility for perhaps freezing hundreds of thousands of people in this country in winter! – We do not want to do this, ladies and gentlemen, [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We want it to be based on what the countries do – and then everyone can take their own noses and take an example of Vienna – that there is a single national heating allowance of 40 € per month for the entire winter period, for all those people, as formulated in the application, who are in a difficult social situation. This causes costs per month – Mr Scheuch, not even – for the entire heating period, which are significantly lower than the additional revenue of the Minister of Finance from increased ro-help travel, from increased petrol prices and from additional taxes alone in this area. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch]] If you're just a mint – a mint! – having social compassion, just a little bit of social justice and not, as usual, just wanting to go beyond the fate of the Austrian population, then you should put this measure for the poorest of the poor in our country. It would only be fair, and it can be financed. Give yourself a back, my dear ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e9640	Mr Morak spoke on the issue of an opinion. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e9659	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Parliament is a part-time body, as we have heard: One is responsible for talking about disasters, we are responsible for not taking place – through our policy in which we send strong signals and act effectively. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Of course, Dr. Gusenbauer, your statements are perfectly suited to the social situation, but not to the current situation, but to those found by this Federal Government in 2000. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Oils: But go, please!]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: That's incredible! A non-competent State Secretary is a provocation!]] We found major problems in the social system, no minimum security elements, poverty despite work, poor integration policies on the labour market, young – young! – Some single women without life assurance for themselves and their children,...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e9719	Mr Morak, you have a well-known strong and professional voice. I beg you to continue!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e9740	Thank you for your help, Mr President. ... a pension system that had not grown to the challenges of the future. We have recognised these problems and have begun to give security to all citizens of our country and to open up prospects through social, fair and fair measures. Let me just show you some of these measures: Tax reform, especially for small and medium-sized incomes, active labour market policy, protection of pension systems by reforming and extending the second and third pillars, hospice care for caregivers, child care allowance also for non-working mothers, increasing and extending family support, exceptional increase in compensation rates. [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] [[Abg. Murauer: Bravo, very good!]] [[Call the SPÖ: This is a provocation!]] First: On tax reform. The large two-stage collective reform guarantees that all taxpayers will be relieved between €679 and €144 per year in 2003 and 2005. The focus of the discharge has been placed on small and medium-sized incomes. With the increase in the tax-free limit for annual gross income up to €14 500 from 1.1.2004 already, some 2.4 million taxpayers no longer pay income tax. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] A total of 1.65 million workers, 730 000 pensioners and 60 000 self-employed persons benefit. [[Call the SPÖ: That's incredible!]] Some 200 000 taxpayers are also tax-free by this measure. This means that more than 40 percent of self-employed workers, including pensioners, are no longer taxable. In the coming year, 150 000 people will be tax-free again. All incomes up to €10 000 are tax-free. This corresponds to a gross annual income of €15,770 instead of €14,500 in 2004, an annual income of €8,888 for self-employed and an annual gross income of €13,500 for pensioners compared with €12,500 in 2004. That is, 2 550 000 taxpayers pay no income tax or wage tax. Nevertheless, they are deducted by about €35 million via the so-called negative tax. [[Abg. Silhavy: Congratulations! That is your understanding of social policy!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: What do you want to tell us?]] The tax reform also helps families, especially single-earners and single-parents. We thus support 2.3 million families in Austria, 900,000 single earners and 100,000 of them single parents. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The specific measures in this area are child supplement to the single-earner (educated) deduction amount – retroactively applicable from 1. January 2004 – the increase in the amount of earnings paid by the single earner from €4 400 to €6 000 – applies retroactively from 1 January 2004 onwards. January 2004 – and raising the penalty rate by about 15 percent, of which 690 000 benefit, and this also applies retroactively with 1. January 2004. [[Call at SPÖ: What does this have to do with heating costs?]] – Is that unpleasant for you? - Good. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Think about your financial concept and be a little quieter! Overall, this results in the following impact of the tax reform on the population: The discharge by the new income tax rate brings the female taxpayers an income increase of almost 2 percent, the male taxpayers of about 1.5 percent. [[Abg. Silhavy: That's blamble!]] The tax reform relieves a total of 1 050 000 pensioners with €450 million, i.e. an average of over €200 – with about half of the pensioners no longer paying taxes at all, which is 90 000 to 100 000 additional. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let me give you a specific example: A pensioner with a monthly pension of 900 € paid so far 40 € wage tax, he paid this year only 4 € wage tax due to the first stage of the tax reform and no more wage tax from 2005 – this is a savings of 482 € per year! These are more than those of you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, demanded 40 € per month. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Minimum pensioner, Mr. State Secretary!]] Labour market policy: The Federal Government is committed to a consistent labour market policy to ensure the full employment path. In 2003, funds for active and active labour market policies with a record budget of around €1 400 million reached the highest level in Austria, which will be exceeded by an additional €100 million in 2004. Even in the foreseeable improvement of the economic environment, the level achieved in the double budget 2005/2006 will be maintained in order to ensure the labour market policy turnaround. It is also ensured that the perspective set out in the Lisbon Strategy 2002 is reached. But Austria already has an internationally recognizable and respected position. Family policy: With 1. The Childcare Act came into force in January 2002. This means parents receive for their first time. In January 2002, children were born up to a maximum of 36. Childcare allowance of € 14.53 per day, in addition, socially weak parents and single parents are entitled to a grant for child care allowance of € 6.06 per day. ==References== In addition to the child care allowance for multiple births, the amount of an increase of 50 percent of the basic amount for the second and every other child is due in January 2004. The OECD has found that this measure raises 21 percent of the vulnerable families whose youngest child is between one and a half years old by means of child care allowances above the minimum level of existence. In addition, family benefits have also been increased over the last few years, with the following benefits being added to family allowances and to multi-children's allowance: ==References== An additional age rate was introduced in the case of family aid in January 2003. As a result, from the month in which a child completed the third year of life, the family allowance was increased by €7.3 per month. On the part of the compensation fund for family allowances, almost € 130 million are made available annually. The increase in the amount of family allowance for significantly disabled children was also made from 1. January 2003 increased by €7.3 per month. For the compensation fund for family benefits, an effort of almost €5 million per year is incurred. In addition to family allowances, an income-dependent multiple-child supplement is made for children's-rich families. ==References== January 2002 increases and now amounts to €36.4 for the third and every other child. Family income must not exceed a certain annual amount. One thing has to be said quite clearly at the end of the heating subsidies. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Worse: Bravo! “Close” is good!]] In the heating grant we talk about a performance which falls within the competence of the countries in the Austrian federal constitution. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Not at all!]] Article 12 of the Federal Constitutional Act explicitly refers to the implementation of social affairs among the countries. It must also be said clearly that the majority of countries shoulder their responsibility in this area. For example, here are the Styria, Vorarlberg or Carinthia, which do up to 150 €, partly up to far above the compensatory allowance rate. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Bravo!]] This division of tasks provided for by the Constitution makes sense. Especially for social benefits, which should be distributed according to need and not according to the principle of casting can, it is necessary to be close to the referee if they are to reach the needy. In Vienna, they cannot determine the conditions under which the self-educated invalidity pensioner lives in Montafon, nor do they have to take into account the different social benefits in the countries. Think of the different country-by-country schemes of rental aid, housing aid, social assistance and so on! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Here as a federal legislator to shave everything about a comb, that would be inefficient and unfair. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dolinschek.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As I have explained, this federal government has assumed its social responsibility in recent years. Almost all federal states do this in an excellent way. Dr. Gusenbauer! So before you make such a request, I would recommend that you coordinate with your own country leaders. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] They know what to do, and they do. What is available here as an application does not deny a certain populism. [[Abg. Mandak: That's what you're saying!]] It seems to me, rather, that it is a mistrust against Mr Niessl, the head of state, Burgstaller and Mayor Häupl, who obviously do not trust them to carry out their duties and find socially just solutions here. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Unheard of stupidity!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e9986	Mr Oellinger spoke on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e10006	Mr President. Mr State Secretary, you have brought in your reading about the wonderful effects or effects of the tax reform, but you have not spoken on the subject. [[Call the SPÖ:Genau!]] The issue is a heating aid for people who are not covered by the tax reform at all. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You didn't understand!]] Unfortunately, in your speech, Mr State Secretary, you have proved your incompetence on this issue. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr President. That is why I am making the request for the German Chancellor and the Minister for Social Affairs. I hope these two know what this is about.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e10063	For business treatment, the next Mr. Klubobmann Mag. Molterer to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e10081	Mr President. I drew from Mr Gusenbauer's speech that he has devoted wide scope to his speech, not to the issue of 'heat-cost grant', but to the subject of'social situation'. [[Abg. Bures: You didn't listen to that!]] It is therefore perfectly logical that the Secretary of State has done exactly this weighting in his reply – on the one hand, to point out the question of balanced and fair social policy by the Federal Government and on the other hand to take a very clear view on the issue of heating aid. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] I think that exactly this procedure is absolutely okay. I therefore have no understanding of a request for the German Chancellor's recovery. He is excellent by his State Secretary Franz Morak.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e10135	The following honourable Member, Dr. Partik-Pablé, has been mentioned for business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e10154	High house! The Secretary of State has dealt exactly with the subject that has been discussed today. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] The Secretary of State referred, of course, to the statements made by Mr Gusenbauer, the first speaker of the Socialist Party. He has clearly dealt with the economic situation and with income relations – with all that Mr Gusenbauer has made the main theme of his speech. It is therefore not justified at all to criticise the statements of the Secretary of State. A meeting of the Federal Chancellor is absolutely essential because the Secretary of State has answered all the issues and questions raised.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e10190	The next Mr. Klubobmann, Dr. Cap, has been reported to speak on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e10210	We know Mr. State Secretary Morak as a shiny actor from the Burgtheater. [[Abg. Mandak: It’s better if he doesn’t play anymore!]] We know that he is able to present complicated roles externally in long pieces. If he has read the text exclusively today, he has described how little he has ever dealt with this matter in his life. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: That's it!]] If Mr Klubobmann Molterer says that the Federal Chancellor is excellently represented by Mr Morak State Secretary, then I can only say: This criticism has not even been deserved by the Federal Chancellor! [[Cheerfulness with the SPÖ as well as applause with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It is already a signal and a symbolism that, when it comes to the question of heating aid, the Federal Chancellor does not consider it worth answering the questions himself from the government bank or taking a position here himself, but that he sends his State Secretary here. That is why we support the request made by Mr Oellinger.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e10289	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Oellinger asked for the following business treatment: The National Council, in accordance with § 18 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure require the presence of the Federal Chancellor. A debate on this request was not required. We shall therefore proceed to the vote immediately. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, and so the request is rejected. We continue in the debate. The next speaker is speaking with an actual correction, Mr Schultes. Start, please, with the playback of the claim to be corrected!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e10339	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr Gusenbauer said: Take an example of Vienna! No other federal state has a heating grant. [[Call the SPÖ: At this height!]] I'm actually correcting: In Lower Austria yesterday, at the state government meeting under the head of state Dr. Erwin Pröll, a heating grant for all the needy... – Listen! [[Abg. Bures: This is not an actual correction! He didn't say anything about Lower Austria!]] Then you know. He said... [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Play the wrong statement!]] Mr President, can I do that? [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Again! The actual correction is, Mr Gusenbauer said: Take an example of Vienna! No other federal country has such a heating aid! [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: What are you doing?]] I am correcting that in the national government meeting in Lower Austria, for all the Lower Austrians who need it, that is, for all under the guidelines for the compensation allowance, a heating grant of €50 has been decided. [[Abg. Bures: That is not to be corrected!]] [[Abg. Silhavy: That's little!]] Take note of this! It happened. Your colleagues have also decided to do so and are happy. [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] We respect the country's competence. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e10463	The next item is Mrs Bures. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e10481	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! If the subject of today's urgent request for a federal uniform heating grant would not be so serious, Mr State Secretary, then you might almost be sorry, because your appearance here today was so sad and has protested against inadvertentness. Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing today something that is about introducing a federal heating aid that would be most necessary. This would be a very necessary support. In my opinion, this is almost a social policy commitment. At the same time, however, we have a sad game on the government bank. The fact that it is not even worth coming to the House on such a subject, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and speaking and answering, is immense. [[Abg. Scheibner: Since when is the Chief Secretary of State?]] But the following is also immense: He has a State Secretary. Where is Mrs Haubner? - She's not here today either. [[Abg. Neudeck: It was the whole government there!]] But we would also have liked to discuss energy prices with Mr Bartenstein. He has also taken the flight today. [[Abg. Grill: 8 percent electricity price increase in Vienna!]] But we would also have liked to discuss the heating aid with the Minister of Finance, who enjoys more revenue. But he's probably exhausted from his beautiful speeches in the morning. Mr Finz is only available if he has any home page certificates, for which the Minister of Finance is still grateful. We would also have liked to have the Federal Chancellor today to discuss this social policy issue with him, but we know him. [[Abg. Grill: Plus 8 percent!]] Of course, there is no trace of the German Chancellor Schüssel on social policy issues. But we have Mr Morak's Secretary of State for Art here today. Mr Morak, I think your statements and your smiles on the government bank today have actually only shown that you do not care about this issue at all. The sad thing about this is that the people and the fates behind it, you, the ÖVP and the Chancellor of the Federal Republic, are obviously completely wretched. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: To stop exaggerating in ignorance!]] In view of the importance we attach to social democrats and social democrats, I would like to draw up our proposal once again. The SPÖ calls for an unbureaucratic, federal heating allowance of 40 € per month for the months of October to April for those people who have an income of less than 875 €, relative to families who have to get out with an income of less than 1 015 €. [[Abg. Neudeck: Just like we had until 1999!]] [[Abg. Grillitsch: Ask Häupl in Vienna!]] I would like to see you, Mr President, how many days you have lived from the money, from which all families have to live for a whole month. [[Abg. Neudeck: I have the same thing as you, even less!]] We also have a very clear financing proposal on our proposal. The Minister of Finance received € 270 million in additional revenue in 2004 due to the increase in energy prices. The Minister of Finance has €135 million in additional revenue by increasing the levy on coal and natural gas. This is a measure, a tax increase that you have to answer! It did not exist at this level in 2000. This was introduced by this government in 2003. Therefore, you have more revenue of € 405 million. It would only be worthy and right to make available to the needy people some € 168 million, which is the cost of the heating grant. [[Abg. Großruck: “In truth it is worthy and right”!]] [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] Mr State Secretary! Since you do not know the situation of the people who live in 2004, I would like to tell you why this issue is still so urgent today: not only because it gets cold and you really have to heat – you do not seem to be able to imagine what it is like to have to live in an unheated apartment for just a few days – but also because we have the highest energy prices in Austria – including because of the highest taxes in this area for which you are responsible. [[Abg. Großruck: Why do the Germans always come to us?]] We have the highest unemployment rate in the Second Republic in Austria. 253 747 people in this country have no work today and are looking for work. Mr State Secretary! Compared to the year 2000, this is 35.8% more unemployed people who are responsible for this government and who today have problems in financing their heating costs. In Austria we have 310 000 people who are poor. According to the poverty report, 876,000 people are at risk of poverty, 88,000 people are in need of emergency aid, and the trend is saddened by their wrong social policy. This is the social balance of this black and blue government, and this is proof that there is actually a social gap. But what are you doing? – They make themselves arrogantly here and say: No, no, no, No cents for heating subsidies, no federal heating aid. In the past, however, they have not taken any action to combat unemployment. They have not put in place any measure that will actually lead to poverty reduction. On the contrary! What you're doing is shortening pensions. In reality, this increases the poverty of old age. This is your social policy balance, which you will carry out on the back of the weakest in this society! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You know, ladies and gentlemen, I am an optimistic person and think there must always be such a thing as hope. A necessary change of course in this country would again give many people hope that there will again be politics with social conscience. Because I'm a positive person, I don't want to imagine that people with their problems don't really care about you, I don't want to imagine that you don't care if people, pensioners, families have to live in unheated rooms for a while, and I don't want to imagine that you're taking all the extra incomes without at least giving back some of these more revenues to those people they really need. That is why I would like to make a very open appeal to you to show a last spark of social conscience. I would like to join Dr. Alfred Gusenbauer, who said: Give yourself a back and agree to a federal heating fee! You have this last spark of social conscience, I hope, but still. Please agree!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e10661	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Tancsits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e10679	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I admit, I would be really surprised if I had learned from the events surrounding this urgent request, what the SPÖ really wants. [[Abg. Gradwell: What can you do? You can't read! You can't listen!]] They make a request in which you argue over two pages, partly over three years old, with data on the social situation, and if you receive a reply from the State Secretary, you are surprised to have a clear answer regarding the social situation and the measures taken by this Federal Government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] You make a urgent request that would belong to the landing days, you get an instruction on the actual competence situation, and you don't say: [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] We have been wrong, we withdraw this and do not abuse this hour to get an introduction course in political education and the distribution of competence of the federal constitution! [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Abuse?! Do you know what you're talking about?]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer:... get into this lubrication comedy! That's incredible!]] I would go to the Federal Council in your place and discuss there the change of competence which you seem to plan. But you do not do all that, so I would like to explain it again very briefly. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: You are unsuspecting, Mr. Colleague!]] The task of the countries is to decide on the ground with the citizens and to provide rapid assistance where it is necessary. The Federal Government's task is to create the framework conditions by means of an income and discharge policy as you heard it this morning, namely through childcare and increased family support, through the largest tax reduction in the Second Republic, without increasing the basic taxes and without increasing health insurance contributions as foreseen in the SPÖ economic programme! [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Create it!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If you had been watching this morning and had not kept up-to-date tables on which you had obviously apologized Mr. Edlinger, but who is not sitting here today, you would know that precisely those people who are affected by the increased energy costs in particular will also be relieved by the reliefs from the tax reform, especially from the federal and tax policies, or also by a corresponding inflation reduction or by a change in compensation rates for single people by 10.8 percent, for married couples by 20.6 percent, as decided under the government bowl. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy]] – This is active social policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] To this end, the countries can complement. They do so, though different. Either the countries directly – such as Vorarlberg, Carinthia, Tyrol, Lower Austria, Styria – give directly or even above the compensatory allowance rate, or they draw the municipalities into additional responsibility – for example, Upper Austria and, only decided yesterday, the Burgenland – or they take the guideline for social assistance beneficiaries – so Salzburg and Vienna – as the basis. I do not think I understood you correctly, Mr Gusenbauer. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Because you don't understand anything!]] They said that Vienna is doing the highest performance. Are you not aware that social assistance recipients with income are well below the compensatory allowance rate that Vienna covers a much smaller group of persons than all other federal states that grant heating aid? [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Yes, of course!]] I think you have confused all this around the highest rates with something else, namely the gas and electricity prices in Vienna, which have developed since 2000 as follows: [[Abg. May. Molterer: Yes, exactly!]] 1. an increase of €31 for the average budget in November 2001; Spring 2003: Viennagas decides to increase the base price for gas by 95 percent, then in the monthly billing this is about one tenth more. In February 2004, the regulator, the head of the E-Control, then demands to lower the prices for the customers in Vienna, since they are clearly superior. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Ah, look here! Missiles in Vienna!]] What's happening? - Nothing! I'm correcting: ==References== There is nothing happening in November 2004. Then the next increase will enter into force in Vienna. In concrete terms, the basic price for private customers will be increased from €7.76 a year to €10.16, and for a small consumer this will be about €122 more and for an average household of €550 more. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The social cold in Vienna!]] [[Call to the liberals:The red Vienna!]] I therefore recommend that you support the social policy of this Federal Government – as it was presented this morning and, as Mr Morak, the Secretary of State, in his opinion, once again, as I believe, has explained. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: So the unsocial policy!]] I recommend that the federal states which are facing direct aid, for example in the area of heating cost development, namely Salzburg and Vienna, to orient themselves to other federal states. I can quite imagine an advisory coordination on the part of the Federal Government if it is desired and necessary. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: This is an insult!]] I also urge you to call on Comrade Häupl to bring Vienna's municipalized gas, Vienna's electricity and district heating to demand economically acceptable and socially acceptable tariffs in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e10925	The next item is the speech by Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e10945	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. State Secretary! It is actually a strong piece that the SPÖ is going here, calling for the grant of a federal uniform heating cost grant, although it knows very well that it itself is sumptuous in its strongest federal state, in which it bears the main responsibility, namely in Vienna. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Where?]] In Vienna. Of course! You have just learned from my colleague Tancsits what the support looks like. It is part of the helpless grant, and in Vienna there is the smallest part. Your mayor refuses to unify the heating grant. If there is a uniformity, we could loosen up a general heating grant from the federal government in Austria, similar to in the year 2000. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: That's all stupid what you're talking about! Absolutely stupid!]] The competence of the poor is clearly with the countries and not with the federal government. That's it. The fact that the Federal Government granted this grant for the October 2000 to April 2001 heating period was due to an increase in the price on the oil market. It was. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Wait a minute! One second point, Mrs Silhavy. The Federal Finance Act for the year 2000 has provided 600 million Schilling for this. The award was made practically through co-financing. However, a special report from the People's Procuratorate criticised the fact that only 113.5 million Schilling, barely 20 percent, were spent – that is because the federal states simply had too few shots. [[Abg. Oil: Well, well!]] [[Abg. Silhavy: That would be nice!]] There were different tariffs, even Vienna was not excluded. That was the crux. You just have to stick to the truth! In addition, the special report of the People's Procuratorate... – Mrs. Silhavy, stay on the ground! [[New call of the abg. Silhavy.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: I'm staying on the ground!]] If you read through the special report of the Public Prosecutor's Office, you will find it is being criticized, and this criticism is: no uniform procedure of the countries in granting heating subsidies, for example, in taking into account income, in applying periods, in the amount of benefits. Equally criticised Information deficits for potential beneficiaries and obstacles to the application. That is all set out in this special report. [[Abg. Silhavy: What you did not want in committee!]] For this reason, the issue of ‘heat-cost grant’ was also discussed within the framework of the second working group on the further development of social assistance. This has been discussed and it has been concluded that there should be uniform federal arrangements in agreement with the countries – between the countries on the one hand and between the countries and the Federal Government on the other. This should be done. In particular, there should be uniform principles in granting. This has not yet been done. [[Abg. Silhavy: But you're in government!]] Mrs Silhavy, let me speak. In addition, the financial compensatory negotiations are still in progress. Wait this one! In Carinthia, everything is on track with regard to heating aid for socially in need. You can question this at your colleague, Mrs. Schaunig-Candut. There were different regulations. On the one hand, Mrs Landesratin Schaunig-Kandut has granted a heating grant, on the other hand Mr Haider. As a result, new ways have been taken, the regulations have simplified, debureaucratized and merged. There is a uniform form. [[Abg. Silhavy:... Upper Austria!]] Listen, maybe you want to implement this in Vienna or Styria or elsewhere! There is a uniform form for communities up to the age of 28. ==References====External links== The disbursement will then be made by the country. The incomes of up to €680 per month are granted 100 € per month. Families with up to 1 050 € monthly income, whether pension or other income, receive a supplement per child of 80 €. With a monthly income of up to €900 – income or pension – there is €60 per month, for couples or communities with up to €1 400 per month, this increases by the supplement per child of €80. – Once on Carinthia, I have to say that. Mr Haider and Mrs Landesratin Schaunig-Kandut agreed to grant these joint heating costs during this year. So the homework is done in Carinthia and also the hard work. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] These 1 million € of heating grants granted last year have been increased to 1.5 million € per year. That's essential. Take an example here in Vienna to Carinthia, how this can work, a loan! They of the SPÖ have addressed the “social cold. ” – The social cold is not here in the federal state, the social cold is in Vienna. Because mayor Häupl does not wish to grant a heating allowance for the needy despite the sensitive cost of heating oil and coal, in the apartments in Vienna this winter the social cold will be withdrawn, and not on the basis of the regulations on the part of the federal government. We'll make sure we get that on track. In the past, the SPÖ has also caused salted gas and electricity price increases in Vienna, and they are now being increased by 1. ==References== [[Call to the ÖVP: The prices are not salted, but peppered!]] Especially now, at the beginning of the heating period, these measures will enter into force. In addition, the SPÖ Vienna implements drastic increases in public tariffs, which also affects people with lower incomes. Kindergarten costs have been increased, and the SPÖ is also responsible for the reduction in “Eating on Wheels” in Vienna. [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] That's not in the inventor's mind. This leads to an impoverishment of the population of Vienna, ladies and gentlemen! It is high time that Vienna followed the example of Carinthia or that of other federal states that have similar regulations. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mrs Csörgits, take a heart, put it into practice! Set In conjunction with your colleague in the Carinthian state government, with Mrs. Landesratin Schaunig-Candut, and do so! - That's what I'm talking about. The social cold of the SPÖ in Vienna is on the agenda. This form of social benefits, like a heating aid, is the competence of the countries, which is clearly so written. For the future, Mr Gusenbauer: Look at other federal states, maybe you can take a break!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e11115	Next word for an actual correction: Mrs Bures. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e11139	Mr President. Mr Dolinschek said, first of all, that there was no uniform heating aid in Vienna. - That's wrong! True, much more is that in Vienna, for the months of October to May, automatically, without a request, € 67.24 per month are paid to all social assistance providers. Second statement by Mr Dolinschek: There have been salted gas price increases in Vienna. – I’m actually correcting: That's wrong! In 2003, the cubic meter cost €0.47, and in 2004 the gas price in Vienna fell to €0.46. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e11173	Mr Oellinger. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e11192	Ladies and gentlemen! Do you want to know what kind of impression you get when you follow this debate? – I hope it won’t get too cold this winter! This must be desired for the people, because what you have so far offered to argue about why this is not possible and why it is not necessary, lets you fear the worst, Mr Grillitsch. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gritish]] Mr Grillitsch, this is really unacceptable. Do you know what hurts me especially? – The fact that I thought it would have to be possible on a question such as heating costs subsidies, but to establish a cross-party consensus. This was even possible in 2000/2001. At that time it was possible that we had a heating allowance which we discussed here in this House, which we have decided here in this House. [[Abg. Ellwall: Not used!]] What distinguishes the winter 2000/2001, actually the winter before, from this? – I can tell you that heating oil prices, but not just those, have increased dramatically over the last few months in total energy prices! At that time, they were far from so high. The only difference: We had the experience that the previous winter was very cold. If you're here now and you're saying, Although prices have increased considerably, we are not interested in that – and de facto you say that – we can't, we don't, we don't want to do it anyway, the federal states do it anyway! Then pull the wrong conclusions. [[Abg. Ellwall: They're responsible!]] Do you know what I am doing – apart from what I have already said, that I thought it would be possible to reach a consensus here – really hurt? I have the feeling that for the first time something is breaking, with so much arrogance – not all the speakers – has gone beyond all these questions here in Parliament, it has been said: We don't care! President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Excuse me, Mr State Secretary, but what does the increase in a flat rate have to do with heating costs? Can you explain this to anyone? How do you get the idea of clicking in here to see that the increase of a shuttle fee is suitable to pay off the increased heating costs? How do you come to the idea, Mr State Secretary, that the minimum pensioner, i.e. the compensation beneficiary, can benefit only one cent from the tax reform and therefore pay off increased heating costs? That's beyond! We all, hopefully all, know that a compensation beneficiary does not benefit a cent from this tax reform. There you can read tables on who favours this tax reform – this is something that goes by! It has obviously been created by your side: Something to talk about, just not about the subject!, just that the topic should have deserved it. I would like to add a number of points to this. Mr Gusenbauer, you have mentioned some of those who benefit from the increase in oil prices and rosy travel. It would be quite exciting to discuss what is happening in the world economy, even in Parliament, if, as good newspapers report – the “time” for instance or in Austria also the “standard” – the profit margin for those who now rely on rising prices in speculation, at a crude oil price of €50 to €15 per barrel. 5 to 15 € is the speculative share, which increases the price to now at least 53 €. It is probably up to 20 € of speculative proportion now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Remembrance, Mr Scheibner. [[Abg. Scheibner: I'll give you the right.]] We then discuss elsewhere that it is good to leave the pension to the stock markets. So on one side: Heating speculation means much higher energy prices, we all don't like it, on the other hand you say – maybe not [[Abg. Scheibner: Don't show us!]] You personally, Mr Scheibner, but you voted in favour – a majority say here in the House: Pensions based on share rates are positive. What does that mean in the consequence? So that the pension funds come to their returns, do they call the speculation? – Let’s do this, let’s end the thought at this point! It would be really exciting, Mr Scheibner, to hold this debate once: What's going on in the world economy? Who benefits and who are the harmed? - First thought. Second thought, very briefly, because my colleagues will also mention this and work out safely: Of course, we know that now, this winter, the people who have individual heatings are dependent on oil, cannot be said: Make an ecologization of your heating, then you get money! But, of course, it would be useful to think about it as a perspective, because electricity policy or energy policy in this country has been in the opposite direction in recent years. In energy policy, in recent years all approaches to ecologizing the tariff system have been blown away. You know that! There have been tariffs that have been tried to take this into account, there have been good approaches in other countries from the energy companies to bring people closer to saving electricity. – In Austria, this was not an issue, uninteresting for you, no impulses from politics! – That was the second thought. The third thought – and now I come to the heating allowance and exactly what Mr Dolinschek has not really put to the point – is: Do you know what the public prosecutor found in 2001 in view of the heating aid measure 2000/2001? – No federal state has been able to make use of the resources it has made available! Now, of course, you can go here and say, as you do: This is a red federal state, which is a blue federal state, which is a black federal state. You can put the blame on each other! – But this is not the case, but the People's Procuratorate has said: This is linked to the principle of disbursement. If, first, the application principle is dominant and one receives the grant only on request and secondly, if different directives apply to the award of heating costs in each of the Länder, then that will be the case. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, if we are discussing the heating aid for this year, we are only here to ask the Minister of Finance or the Federal Government for the money that was not spent at the time. At the time, these 600 million schillings, more than €40 million, did not even spend 200 million schillings, and the Minister of Finance or the Federal Government then spent the money that was left to speculate on, because the principle of the application and the different directives could only cause confusion, three or four times for other actions, for any other fund of hardness. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dolinschek.]] We stand here today and would like to remind you: There's a lot of money left, a lot of money! – Well, now you can say that has been four years since now, we are not talking about the 2000/2001 budget. – We want a clean action that affects not only the social assistance workers, the unemployed people and the emergency workers who have to get out with very little, but of course also the pensioners who receive a low pension. All those persons are to receive this grant automatically, because only in this way do people get to enjoy the thing. They all know exactly what it means to question themselves to an authority in the country or also in the city and then to run there in order to apply for such a grant! You know what that means for a 70-year-old or 80-year-old woman. You nod, thank you, Mr Deputies. As mayor, you know how helpless the people affected sometimes are in dealing with such requests and, so to speak, with the associated writing! Therefore, only an unbureaucratic action will help them, and the creation of such an action would be the task of the federal government instead of producing and saying: [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] You know what? Go home! This is the problem, ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e11298	Please pay attention to your speaking time, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e11313	I fear a break if you continue to address this ignorance!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e11341	The next speaker is Mrs Silhavy. Desirable time: 7 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e11359	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Tancsits! Mr Dolinschek! Honestly, I have at least hoped that you will try to argue somewhat professionally, and this serious topic will not be dealt with with with by polemics! It is a matter which many groups have already addressed, for example Mr Küberl of the Caritas, but also national party politicians and others who simply know how people have little income. I have hoped that you will work less with polemics, but try to really seriously argue! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course it's bad when gas and electricity get more expensive. However, both social speakers of your political groups have simply dropped the fuel oil under the table in their statements, especially those of which the Ministry of Finance benefits most. You didn't tang you at all! That didn't happen in your speeches! This was even noticed by Mr Scheuch of the FPÖ. ==References== The Minister of Finance has already demanded that there be a heating grant and that the funds available to him should be returned to the needy or to the people who are weak in incomes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. Dolinschek.]] But you all ignore that! Mr Dolinschek! There might be a straight line within the FPÖ! Perhaps you should talk to Mr Scheuch about this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Tancsits.]] Mr Tancsits! When you talk about the competences – now I come back to the topic –: Since 2000, we have been demanding heating subsidies for people with low incomes in various ways. This is our last request that you have postponed this February with your FPÖ/ÖVP majority. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Tancsits.]] If you feel that this is not a federal competence, then reject the request in the committee and confess to it! [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: This is a question of character!]] But don't even swim in one direction and once in the other direction, just not to have to make any decision at all and to push the ballerl back and forth! In fact, the people who would have to get a support stay on the track. That is unfair, unsocial and unfair! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mr. Klubobmann Scheibner! They have also expressed their views on this issue. You said: If we wait for what the countries are doing, and if there is a need, then the Federal Government will consider something. – Well, if we wait for the Federal Government to consider something, the heating period is probably over! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer.]] However, the fact that the countries deal with it very differently, I think you have heard it today. Vienna automatically pays one of the highest contributions for social assistance recipients. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not true! What does Vienna pay in addition?]] Carinthia, for example, is based on the compensatory allowance rate and is even slightly higher. The Upper Austrians have dealt with this quite differently at all. The Lower Austrians say: 50 € must be enough! – Every federal country makes it different! We are concerned that people with low pensions also get something. Mr State Secretary! 640 € is the average unemployment benefit, the emergency aid is just over 500 €. These people don't care about your statements about tax reliefs and drivers at all, because they don't drive by car because they usually can't afford it, and they're not affected anyway. However, they are affected by the fact that winter is cold and heating costs are rising. Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ! In the 2003 budget, you even decided to levy coal. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] For people who are hot with coal or coke because they can't afford a different heating, it's not funny. They are partly older people who have to drag up the coals and drag the ashes back down. But even these must pay! That's what you thought! They have reintroduced the levy. [[Abg. Scheibner: That was an environmental measure!]] That's a shame! Now you should at least make up for those who have little income a little bit by giving people their fair share instead of moving between competences! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Stop talking such nonsense!]] Mr Scheibner. You may not have noticed that people may not be able to afford new heating! [[Abg. Scheibner: Make electricity and gas cheaper, then people don't need coal anymore!]] You obviously have no idea how many poor people there are who, thanks to your policy, have become even poorer in this country! That's a scandal! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You take the money out of your pocket to the poorest!]] You should listen, Mr Scheibner. That would make sense, because then you might imagine that there are people who do not speak out of your position and from your income perspective! – [[New call for tender of the Abg. Scheibner.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] I understand at least the people, I am with them, I listen to them, I hear their concerns about what you are not doing, because you have long been removed from these people in your policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame.]] Mr Tancsits! Mr Pühringer, your head of state in Upper Austria, made it clear: If some pensions are too low, it is only right and cheap for the federal government to take over 50 percent of the heating aid, because the federal government is responsible for pensions and the social base network. – I think that's probably undisputed! This applies to emergency aid, which applies to unemployment benefit, which applies to child care benefits. This is precisely what we are aiming at with our proposal, and I think it would be good for you all if You'd jump over your shadows. Those who also have “Christian-social” somewhere in their title should perhaps consider the social element and give our request our consent!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e11556	The next speaker is Mrs Turkovic-Wendl. 5 minutes speaking time. – Mrs Colleague, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e11574	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear visitors here at the Hohen Haus! We have now heard a back and forth, but the facts remain the facts: The Austrian Federal Constitution now provides that in Austria the countries have the competence for social assistance. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: You see an inhumanity!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bures.]] In view of this division of national competence, countries have gladly given heating aid to socially weak people over and over again. I am now addressing those people whom I represent here in the House, namely the pensioners, among whom there are just compensation recipients. The black and blue coalition, which has been ruling since 2000, has not forgotten any compensatory allowances on these stakeholders. Since 2000, the guide rate for single people has increased by 10.8 percent and for married couples by 20.6 percent. These are 228,380 people in our country, 38,307 of them married couples. On the other hand, it should be noted that pensioners who receive a compensatory allowance have become fewer. In 2000, it was still 235,346, compared to the number I mentioned. These data show that there is very much social warmth in our country, otherwise it would not be possible! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Where is this warmth?]] The Austrian Seniors' Association with its chairman Stefan Knafl represents a clear legal opinion that the grant of a heating grant falls into the competence of the federal states and asks that the social representatives of the countries meet to reach agreement on this issue. Something has already happened in some federal states, and I call there at the top of Vorarlberg with 150 €, but also Carinthia with 100 €. [[Abg. Scheibner: Bravo!]] Also Lower Austria, the Styria and Tyrol are there; Tirol has been with the heating aid for many years. I am missing in this list the federal states of Burgenland, Salzburg and Vienna, where there are considerations but no facts yet. [[Call the ÖVP and the Freeman:Rot!]] [[Call the ÖVP and the Freeman:Rot!]] [[Call the ÖVP and the Freeman:Rot!]] In Vienna – we have heard this – there is a contribution for the social assistance recipients. However, the pensioners, in whom the compensatory allowance rate is applied, do leave them out. That is why I would ask these pensioners to pay attention in Vienna – at least more than 28 000 in the number! [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: I think you're confusing a lot!]] [[Abg. Silhavy: I believe so!]] These people will thank you! There are exactly 29 846 people who will respond well if a grant comes to Vienna. Time is not very long for that. In view of the evolution of energy prices and the different procedures in the countries, we make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e11726	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ingrid Turkovic, tabled by Mr Tancsits, Mr Dolinschek, Mr Turkovic-Wendl and Mr Partik-Pablé, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. But I have a problem: The request submitted to me in writing does not contain the words ‘and compensation recipients’ you have read, Mrs Colleague! [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That's typical again!]] So that means you have to make a corresponding addition and put it down with me. Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. Speech time: Six minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e11758	Ladies and gentlemen! I cannot be as determined as Mrs Wendl, because the challenges that have come from the opposition were quite simply such that one has to answer accordingly! Mr Gusenbauer has asked the government for a little bit of humanity. – Mr Gusenbauer, I call on you to show a little bit of political honesty here and not to tell half-truths! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Gusenbauer! They have said that there is already a heating surcharge in Vienna. In fact, it is true that only the beneficiaries of social assistance receive heating aid in Vienna, but the minimum pensioners and the compensation recipients and all other persons receiving a minimum benefit from the AMS do not receive a heating surcharge. They wanted to make us believe here that every Viennese needy will receive a heating allowance. That's just not true! Most of the needy do not receive a heating surcharge from Vienna! [[Abg. Silhavy: You don't know each other, Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé!]] Mr Gusenbauer! They have also claimed that people have become poorer in recent years. The opposite is true! Net income increased by 1.6% in 2000, 0.8% in 2002, 0.6% in 2004. This is also reflected in private consumption, which has increased by 1.6 percent in these years, ladies and gentlemen. You obviously don't want to do all that, you're just having negative news pleasant, and all that's positive, you just don't want to take note of it! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Bures: Listen!]] Mrs Bures! You've even gotten to say – I think you said that –: We have the highest energy costs in Europe. That's not true at all! From our neighbouring countries, people flock to Austria to drink here to buy heating oil. We have the lowest energy prices and not the highest! [[New call of the abg. Silhavy.]] Mr Oellinger! They claimed that the application principle would have been due to the fact that in 2000 not all the funds made available to the Federal Government were exhausted. – I would like to inform you of the following: The City Vienna did not even know how many minimum pensioners live in the area of Vienna and could therefore not even ask these minimum pensioners to apply! Is it not embarrassing if you do not even know which income earners live in your own country? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Don't yell, Mrs Silhavy, please talk to Mr Chief Mayor that he will take care of his minimum incomes! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You know, the social cold lives in the Federal Capital of Vienna, who lives with Mr. Sozialminister Häupl, who has to answer for it! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This federal government has repeatedly proved that it understands the concerns of socially weaker people! Now the federal care money is increased. Mrs Bures! Since 1996 the Federal Care Fund has not been increased! ==References== In January 2005, income will be tax-free up to €15 700 per year. Take note of this, Mrs Bures, and do not always say the same! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] I don't understand you at all! Please note that this federal government has always been committed to social weakness! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: This is white nonsense!]] It has already been pointed out that only two countries do not grant the heating aid, and it is now a matter of country to grant a heating grant. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: That's not true!]] In Carinthia, consideration has already been given to this. Member of the European Parliament, which means: “That’s not true!”? This is in country competence, Article 12 B-VG, Mr Deputies! [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Read to me Article 12 B-VG!]] Vienna reports: There is currently no general heating aid for people with minimum incomes. – This is a social cold, ladies and gentlemen! But not what is done in Carinthia, for example, where already paid! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In Salzburg, the Salzburg Council of State simply says: A heating aid shall not be granted. It would be deplorable if someone had to make a request. . Here, however, at the federal level, Mr Gusenbauer calls for a heating subsidy. So where to finance, in Salzburg, it is rejected, whereas in Vienna, where the federal government has to pay, the SPÖ is increasing to the barricades for the heating aid! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Why don't you talk to Mrs. Burgstaller and tell her to pay a heating grant – Mr. Mayor Häupl as well! Its policy is really very transparent, but it is not credible and it is also little social. You should be oriented to the Federal Government and not to your policy, which is just to beat political change! [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: No! A disaster!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e11916	Mr Magistrate, speaking on an actual amendment, has spoken. Hoscher. – Mr President, you know the Rules of Procedure: the body to be corrected first and then the right one.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e11937	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Partik-Pablé has made the claim here that the name of Mr Sozialminister would be Häupl and the name of the mayor of Vienna. I'm actually correcting: It is God's thanks exactly the other way round!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e11993	Mrs Bures has made a statement on another actual correction. Speech time: 2 minutes. - You know the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e12014	Of course, Mr President. Mr President, Mrs Partik-Pablé has just claimed that under the Federal Constitutional Act, the heating aid falls within the competence of the countries. I'm actually correcting: That's wrong! The countries are only responsible for social assistance. We call for a uniform national heating allowance for the unemployed, for emergency and child benefit workers, so for all those who need it.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e12044	Another actual correction is made by Mrs Oellinger. Speech time: 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e12066	Mr President. After Mrs Partik-Pablé has also claimed that it is the competence of the countries to cover the minimum pensioners to grant them a corresponding heating allowance, I put it right here: [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Social benefits!]] In connection with the heating cost action 2000 and 2001, there is a corresponding report from the Public Prosecutor's Office, which was also sent to Parliament – that is the annual report and not the special heating grant report. In this it says: "As pension and compensation benefits have often failed to benefit from heating costs, the 58. Novelle zur ASVG... provides that pensioners may undertake to award heating aid against the payment of administrative costs along with pensions. However, this did not happen because, despite a comparable starting point, a new funding action from the Federal Budget was unfortunately not envisaged.” – Quotes. The Federation is responsible for making the money – and nobody else. There you have it black on white in the People's Procuratorate's Report!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e12100	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Glawischnig. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e12119	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! It is terrifying to end up in the debate on a social problem exclusively on the dead end of perhaps misunderstood federalism, so that we need to discuss a federal heating grant for the one group and a national heating grant for the other group. Political: The closest thing would be to realize that there is a social problem here – in this respect we should have at least one consensus – that we need to solve. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Since responsibility is unacceptable. Second: This is not only a social problem, but also, in the medium term, a huge economic problem, which is so to speak, namely the oil dependence of Austria, the Austrian economy, the Austrian households, the Austrian industry. We have to think about what it means to have an oil price increase of over 100 percent last year. Last year the barrel of crude oil cost 22 dollars, now it's over 53 dollars. Analysts say it won't get any better. The end of cheap oil has arrived. It is not only about whether oil will eventually go out, but also about the price. And since a well-run republic needs a plan B, since Plan A will continue to build on a raw material, whose price may not only double in the medium term, but will even triple and become increasingly scarce. The answer can't be just to say: Okay, let's close a hole there and stop something there and something there. A plan B must be considered, namely how to reduce this dependence in the medium term in the areas of heating and electricity generation. And I miss 100 percent now in this hack, especially of the ÖVP. I am sorry that you, Mrs Ingrid Wendl, are saying that this and that federal country do not have that. – That's not the point at all! It is about the enormous problem of not importing cheap oil into Austria in the medium term. Flows of 80 billion per year, 90 billion schilling, still thought in old currency. In the medium term, one will really have to consider a solution. We will, of course, support the SPÖ's request – I think it is important that we do not abandon this group – but we really need a medium-term strategy, as we do exactly in these households – they usually have less comfort, they have to drag, the quality of life is lower, because they are usually very old, unassumed apartments – as we get hold of it. But we also need to see how to substitute energy systems so that these people are not delivered price increases from 200 € from one season to the next season. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grill: Now I understand why you are...!]] – Now you understand? – That makes sense, of course. I think you can look at the current price situation very honestly. From operating costs, pellet heating, wood heating is as cheap as oil heating, it will be cheaper and cheaper in the future. We need to promote investment in order to implement this conversion programme. We also need a proper old house renovation that meets exactly those apartments where older people still sit with single-burners and have little comfort, little quality of life. This is a classic problem where environmental and social aspects meet. Again: One thing is too short for me, namely that, in view of the federal states, one assumes one another, whether it is red or black, where one does not, but the other, to forge just one emergency nail, is also too little for me. You actually need a plan B. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e12171	The next speaker is Mrs Csörgits. Speech time: Seven minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e12190	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The lack of importance of the members of the Federal Government for a debate on heating aid is seen from the fact that the government bank is empty, the competent minister is not here, but only – I am sorry that you, Mr Morak, are now dealing with this – the State Secretary for Culture, who has not yet shone in his speech. [[Abg. Head: nonsense!]] [[Abg. Grillic: What does “only” mean?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have rarely heard such an incompetent speech as today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In order for the situation here in the House to become a little clearer, I must say that, thanks to your policy, ladies and gentlemen, in Austria, we are confronted by the government parties, with the fact that the poor in this country are getting poorer and that people who have not been able to imagine themselves recently are not even being given up in their coldest nightmares that they will once be given up on poverty. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Header]] That's really terrifying! More than 310 000 people are affected or threatened by poverty, and more than 100,000 people stick to the poverty trap and no longer come out. Of course, very many children are also affected, because often parents do not have a job or even single parents are only employed in part-time jobs. In this context, I would also like to point out that: A strategy, a policy against unemployment does not take place under this Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Unemployment is rising and rising! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Head: 3,244,000 employees! The highest level of employees!]] The Minister of Finance has today declared that the number of employees is rising. However, he has unfortunately forgotten that this is due to the fact that there is mainly part-time employment, that mainly atypical and minor employees are identified here. That's how it looks, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You don't need to wake up with your head, that's fact, you just don't like to hear what I can understand. If I were in your situation, I wouldn't like to hear that either. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Compared to the burdens you have been hanging around the Austrian people for years, this heating allowance would be like a small drop on the hot stone. And then we have to listen to speeches, the humane, the cynical, who are really heartless and cold. Interestingly, money is available when it comes to buying interceptors. There we have the cash at once and the Marie, so it looks like, ladies and gentlemen, but that people in this country are being given out in a few weeks of cold, you seem to be not interested in the government at all. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: The cash, not the cash!]] Or, when it comes to celebrating birthdays. If I can give faith to the “Kronen Zeitung”, Mr. Hofrat Seipel has asked his guest of honour for an exhibition and then for a dinner, for curly, curly 5 736 €. Interestingly, we have money for this, but for those really poor we have no money. That's how it looks! And if you say that is the matter of the countries, I should remind you that a few years ago – unfortunately, it has been a long time – it has been successful, interestingly, under a Social Democratic Social Minister, Mr Geppert, in 1990 – a uniform federal grant to energy costs. So if you're not able to make a proper law yourself, I'd like to give you this copy, you just need to update it and change the currency. – Please, perhaps this would be a good suggestion for a sensible policy in the context of the eradication of poverty – the poverty that you are currently driving forward in this country. [[the speaker shall forward a document to Secretary of State Morak, sitting on the Government Bank,]] [[Call to the ÖVP: These are not manners!]] – You don’t need to explain to me what manners are. I think you miss them a lot, I'm sure you're not missing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You know, my manners and my temperament then go through with me, especially my temperament, when I think about how many people are poor and have to think about how they get over the winter. It's my temperament because I have a heart for these people and I know what they're doing. But you probably really lack access to the base. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am also somewhat amazed at the reaction of the FPÖ. There must have been some mistake, as so often with this party, because only on 2 February. In October, Mr Uwe Scheuch requested a uniform national heating aid. He said that energy prices would continue to rise by Christmas, that FPÖ is the social conscience in Austria and therefore calls for an additional unbureaucratic national heating aid for low-income people. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Reading done!]] – Those who help quickly help twice. I am already very excited, Mr Scheuch, whether you are falling over again, or whether you and your party prove character once and also really stand up to what you said recently in a newspaper. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! It is really very important to put in place unbureaucratic and uniform measures here for the poor and the poorest of our country. Give yourself a back, step down from your high Ross, show yourself once in your policy heart and decide with us our request regarding a heating cost grant. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e12347	The next speaker is Mrs Machne. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e12365	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. It's amazing to me that from your side, the SPÖ, a proposal to spend money comes again and again. [[Abg. Reheis: Are the poorest worth nothing to you! That must not be true!]] I would like to make a proposal by which the Federal Government takes money, but not by a tax increase, Mr Matznetter, who is not in the hall. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I would have liked you to have made this request to Mr Haupl, because there is only no grant for heating in Vienna. [[Abg. Reheis: You don't know what poverty is!]] You have to be quite clear about that. In principle – ladies and gentlemen, listen to me a little! – Of course, we are also in favour of poverty reduction measures. [[Abg. Rehears: Platties!]] It should also be noted, however, that fluctuations have been taking place for many years, especially in the case of energy costs in the heating oil sector. Of course, a responsible policy such as in the country of Tyrol makes it possible for heating subsidies to be paid over the communities for many decades – in Tyrol it is €75, which would be a good example for Vienna, for all compensation recipients. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] – There’s no such thing as Vienna – isn’t there? In addition, for example – as I speak to Mrs Glawischnig – we have thought about this – also in many other Austrian communities, for example in Styria, how to achieve relative independence from heating oil prices through regional projects. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: It's not here!]] For our citizens, we operate a long-distance heating plant with biomass, which, in particular, offers stable energy prices for our socially weaker fellow citizens. In recent years, many apartments have been converted and connected to our biomass plant. At the same time, the houses were also provided with appropriate heat protection. This is an example that shows that, of course, the municipalities and the countries in this area are responsible. Thank God we are able to deliver cheap energy to our citizens, whose price is always the same. And we also have the effect that value added remains with local farmers and sawmills. I think this is social and environmental policy for our citizens at the same time. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, leave the responsibility for the citizens of the countries and communities! They're very well removed from us. [[Abg. Silhavy: No wonder at the Federal Government!]] Mr Oellinger, it is not that the citizens have to come to the municipal offices as a bitter, but they are treated quite normally by our many mayors. I think that is a good social and environmental policy. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e12467	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. Desirable time: 6 minutes. . You are at the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e12485	Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mr State Secretary! The arguments of the previous speakers were, as always, very controversial. However, I believe that the speakers from FPÖ and ÖVP have made something clear: This heating cost grant is and remains country-related! I do not want to repeat once again everything on the surface, which federal states make a good policy and which make a bad one. But one thing is clear: It is now the SPÖ-regulated federal states that make bad policies. That is why I am not really surprised that the SPÖ is calling for us to make a united heating aid, because, so to speak, we would take the powers of the red country politicians politically poorly-fulfilled into our competence, then we would ensure that our competent federal government solves these problems that the red heads of state and state politicians have. Of course, that's quite clear. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,]] Mr Hoscher has made an actual correction here. He said – how was that? – the Minister of Social Affairs is not the chief. - Thank God. I mean, that was one of the best actual corrections we've ever had, because it's really a lucky thing that the Minister of Social Affairs is called Herbert Haupt and not Häupl. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr. Klubobmann Gusenbauer said in the context of his speech – I at least tried to understand him well – that – literally – the SPÖ calls for a monthly heating allowance of € 40 per month, taking the country's funding into account. Mr Klubobmann Gusenbauer, that would not be particularly wise, because in most countries, at least in those countries governed by the ÖVP and the FPÖ, there would be a reduction in the heating cost subsidy. Because if we had a heating allowance of 100 € in Carinthia, in Tyrol one from 75 €, in other countries 60 to 100 € heating aid, only in Salzburg and Vienna none, then that would mean that the needy in the federal states except Vienna and Salzburg would receive less heating aid. So to speak, the Federal Government would have to get the surplus money back, because you only want 40 €. I think it is very worrying that the poor people who have very little money are being fed off with 40 € heating allowance per month. It should be possible to give everyone more, especially where competence is in the right hand. Mr Matznetter, it is actually a crazy demand: The Carinthians pay 100 €, and colleague Gusenbauer turns out here and says he wants 40 €. It's not understandable! He can still turn his back on me, but it doesn't get any more correct what he asked for here. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: per month! Per month!]] We pay it per month too! Carinthia pays 100 € per month, and Dr. Gusenbauer requires 40 € per month. So that would be minus €60 for every Carinthian and for every Carinthian. Mrs Trunk said that You can explain very badly yourself in your social democratic circle in Carinthia. That would be a so-called heating cost reduction. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Do you know what's best? I have done the work and have looked at what can be found under the ‘heat grant’ on the homepage of the country of Vienna. Unfortunately, I left the note in my place, but that doesn't matter. Perhaps Mr. Klubobmann would be so nice and would bring him to me, because you should really read that out. [[Abg. Scheibner: (bringing a document to the speaker's desk) Please nice!]] Thank you, Mr Klubobmann! If you go to the homepage of the state government of Vienna and enter the search term “heat grant” as a search term, you will get the following details: ‘Social info Vienna – heating aid’. “At present, a general heating aid for people involved in minimum income is not foreseen.” – This is the information provided by the official website of the country of Vienna. [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] It's really fascinating, you're taking the people behind the light. ‘At present, a general heating aid is not planned,’ says the Commission. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Mrs Silhavy, I do not think we are suspected that we could somehow influence the website of the red Vienna. So, I think we're on a straight line here, too. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: (in the direction SPÖ) You should take a look at Carinthia!]] Mrs Csörgits and Mrs Silhavy quoted me. In principle, I don't know if this is a praise or no praise when a red man quotes me, but I think it's not that bad. They quoted my demand from the 2nd century. October. First of all, this clearly shows that we were the first to be liberals, because you came to this idea three days later. Please read in the APA of 2. October – Freedom as always leading, social conscience of the government. - Good thing. Second, Mrs Silhavy: When you finish reading my report, you see that I am also presenting a proposal for a solution, which is to be made, namely, in the course of the financial compensatory negotiations, to ensure that the allocation of funds is done in such a way that the money is available because this matter lies in the competence of the countries. Unfortunately, one has to comply with the legal framework. You should have learned that sometime. Conclusion, relatively simple: There is no question that this is an important concern. We liberals will be careful to agree to your request because it is nothing but populist opposition policy, nothing else. We will, of course, see the possibilities we have to bring the Minister of Finance to the point of making these funds available. [[Abg. Silhavy: This is an insult!]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Larifari! Larifari!]] But one, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like for you, Dr. Gusenbauer: If we look at the social Vienna homepage sometime again, then under “heat-cost grant” there should be something to be found, because this is really an increase for tens of thousands of small income recipients of the Federal Capital. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e12638	Next speaker is Mrs Mandak. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e12656	Mr President. High house! Mr. State Secretary Morak! I'm glad that some time has passed since your speech was made, because when you spoke, I really got this famous heartbeat and thought that I really shouldn't be true. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, are the culture secretary in the most negative sense, because today you have shown the pure culture of a superiority that is really beyond everything you can politically do. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Don't repeat what the others have already seen!]] I do not know, Mrs Partik-Pablé, what others have already done here – for me, it was more than enough of what the State Secretary has given of himself here today! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: weren't you there?]] He should leave his hands on social policy, because this superiority goes at the expense of those who urgently need support and help. [[Congratulation with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ]] That is what people need most: let a Secretary of State Morak say in this way, what they need or what they do not need! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I don't wonder at all, because it's only about pure self- praise, about self-consecration and not at all about looking at the needs and the urgent needs of the people. We are not here to preach constantly what the government has done, or to ask: Is the competence of the federal government or the country?, or to indicate which country is doing something more here and which is nothing at all. We are inside here to see what the people in Austria need and how we can adapt our current laws so that those who have little can do better. If that doesn't matter to you, then continue to make politics like this – we don't care! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Head: The distribution of tasks makes sense!]] Of course, a division of tasks makes sense, but at least one can say that we are looking at it. It has been clarified today, also by Mr Öllinger, who quoted the public prosecutor's office, that there is also a federal responsibility here. They're like you don't have any responsibility at all, and say the countries should do that, we wash our hands in innocence. Your hands are very dirty for this, I can only tell you. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That really makes me crazy, really! Vorarlberg has decided to grant heating costs. What was the result? – Of the at least 12,000 entitled persons, 4,000 have taken advantage of it. Why? – Because, according to the current regulations, people have to go to the community and say there, I have no money, I am poor, I need a heating grant. Two thirds of those who would receive this grant will not go because they do not want to take this step. But that seems completely indifferent to you. You don't care what that means. [[Abg. Head: That would be the recipe “Gießkanne”!]] No, that would not be the recipe “forgone ”! [[Abg. Neudeck: You're pretending to be a shame to poverty!]] At the SPÖ's request, it is the speech of 4 percent of the population affected by poverty. I was at a discussion event in Vorarlberg on Monday, where the question of debt, in particular the situation of women in debt cases, was raised. The figures of over-indebted households in Vorarlberg country have been presented there: Five thousand households are directly affected and 10,000 are under acute threat. This means that 10 percent of the population live in over-indebted households or are directly affected by this over-indebtedness – people who do not care whether the oil price is a little higher or a little lower, but who need urgent support. And if you, Mr Scheuch, first go big in the press, as you have already done a few times, and then, if there is really a need for action, fall over again and say that we will do that sometime on the financial compensation, then that does not benefit people! It does not benefit people, if you say, sometime in the context of the financial compensation, we will clarify this! They need help now! Now the winter is coming, and now they need a claim for a grant and not at some point on the Sankt-Nimmerleins day, on which you have moved it again! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e12785	Mr Matznetter has made a point of correcting the situation. 2 minutes speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e12808	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Minister! High house! Mr Scheuch claimed here that on the website of the state government of Vienna there is no heating aid to be provided. – That’s wrong! That is correct, and that is what anyone on the Internet can find out, under the details of social assistance, that the heating aid is €67.24 per month from October to April. In this sense, Mr President, there are courses, Parliament is helping you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e12846	Mr Parnigoni spoke in favour of a further actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e12867	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch has claimed here that if the scheme has been proposed by the Member of the Gusenbauer scheme – that we should receive 40 € of heating aid for seven months, that is, about 280 € in a heating season – this would be worse than what is happening in Carinthia, because the citizens in Carinthia would be less. This is, of course, completely wrong, what Mr Scheuch said, because in Carinthia there is once a hundred € per heating season! This bill should even bring together Mr Scheuch to realize that this is much less! So really!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e12903	The last sentence, Mr Parnigoni, was a speech and not an actual correction. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr Lopatka is next speaker. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e12931	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! After the polemics of the last few minutes, I want to come back to the matter. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] That was all very polemic! I give all the previous speakers the right that policy is required if energy prices on the world market rise in such a way. Of course, those responsible for the People's Party acted quickly and were aware of this responsibility. It was our national leaders who acted quickly, unlike your national leaders. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Klubobmann Gusenbauer, you yourself bring the evidence in your present resolution, because there write You're right: “The dependence on social assistance also excludes many people in need – such as unemployment benefit, emergency or child benefits – from a heating allowance.” – Right! Do you know which three federal states still exclude these groups? – Vienna, Salzburg and Burgenland! [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] That's why Col. Silhavy is right in an issue on 5 May. In October, it was found that: “Example Steiermark.” – What has been decided in Styria? – That regardless of social assistance... [[Abg. But who has made the request, Mr Lopatka?]] Who is the head of state in the Styria? – It is Waltraud Klasnic – and will stay Waltraud Klasnic! [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] This is an overall responsibility, Mr Matznetter, and this overall responsibility is exercised by us and in the federal states we govern. [[Abg. Silhavy: Who does not want to see the Federal Government!]] The little ones are the SPÖ national leaders, they are the busiest, and you have not found the word “heat-cost grant” on the website of the city of Vienna, because there is no own. – This is the difference between a federal government governed by the SPÖ and the federal states we rule! [[Abg. Head: It smells like a social cold, Mr. Cot!]] The only thing for which I am grateful to you is that you have made this clear today with this urgent request – I think it was not even your own awareness. You did not even know that there is such a difference, as one deals with the weakest in our society, between the federal states governed by the ÖVP – even Carinthia is an exemplary federal country – and for example Salzburg. A cheaper dispute will be fought at the expense of the poorest! In Salzburg, it is a question of whether this remains the case that the grant depends on the reference to social assistance. Why? – Because then the municipalities would have to pay two thirds instead of the country. We do not make it as cheap as Mrs Landeshuptmann Burgstaller does in Salzburg! If Vienna, Salzburg and Burgenland had done what the other federal states had already decided, we could have saved this debate today. But you lack the force of enforcement, Mr. Alfred Gusenbauer! You lack the force of enforcement! Direct the energy to where the experts are required to make decisions! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] You, Mr Gusenbauer, can turn around and turn my back on me, it does not change the facts, because it is precisely what you have in your request today in sending out your Federal Managing Director Bures. The decisive thing is that we do not exclude these groups, such as emergency workers, people who have a very low pension here! In Vienna these are excluded, I tell you again. This is the big difference from the example of Styria. As the motion for a resolution previously tabled by Mr Turkovic-Wendl has been withdrawn, I should now like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! At the expense of the poorest political change, I would like to reject that in principle. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Mrs Silhavy, you have today taken the word "supply" into your mouth: That's the real shame, I tell you! Why we are so consistent has a lot to do with Christian-social policy, because this applies to the principle of subsidiarity, and the principle of subsidiarity is a good principle which is now more and more applied thanks to God also at European level. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] Following this principle, it is 100% right to leave the competence where it is, namely the countries which, with the support of the municipalities, come to the best solutions.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e13079	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Lopatka by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Tancsits, Dolinschek, Ingrid Turkovic-Wendl, Dr. Helene Partik-Pablé and colleagues on heating aid are sufficiently supported and are negotiating. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e13155	Mrs Silhavy spoke in favour of an actual correction. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e13177	Mr Lopatka has just claimed that the Styria with the head of state Klasnic is exemplary in connection with the heating aid. [[Abg. Grill: Right, right!]] [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Amon.]] – This claim is wrong! I'm actually correcting: The Social Democratic Social Country Representative in Styria has made a request, the ÖVP has put this request back – and only on pressure from the public was a week later the request of our Social Democratic Council decided.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e13217	Next and provisionally last word: Mr Riepl. 6 minutes of legal speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e13236	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! I would like to address a few previous speakers' speeches. I have one question to Mr Scheuch; he meant that the government's social conscience was the liberals: Does that mean that you as a liberal have a social conscience and the ÖVP has none? Is that the conclusion you can draw from it? I think it's the right thing to say: Neither you nor the ÖVP have a social conscience! We have seen this in many examples in the past. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This government, ladies and gentlemen, has no social conscience! [[Abg. Elf wall: Wrong! Completely wrong!]] Mrs Partik-Pablé said that net income had increased. – Ladies and gentlemen, with the people we have been discussing for two hours now, the net income has certainly not increased as you meant. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Read it again!]] They did not get up, but they certainly did, for example, with the managers who have been brought back. As everyone has received at least 10 percent more remuneration, to Gage, some have even received a rental grant, possibly a heating grant also – everything is possible with this government! – and these grants are moving at astronomical heights. [[Abg. Lentsch: At the OMV!]] Mrs Partik-Pablé, you should think about who you are talking about when you stand out here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] – Don’t look at me so bad! I can't stand it, but maybe I'm scared. You will be your last voters, Madam Members. I don't think it's good if you look like that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Are you your voters?]] Now there are 18 Members of the Liberals sitting here, but I can still remember that there were around 34 more. Where are they now?- Oh, my God! So you should think about your policy! You always say that you stand up for the “little people” and for the poor, that you are the ones in the government who have a social conscience, but what does it really look like? [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Dear. Ladies and gentlemen! One thing was clear in this discussion: The development of energy prices has led to increased tax revenue – that has already been said several times – but there is no willingness to help the poor in our society, the poor in our society. Formal reasons have been suggested by the speakers of the government parties. We Socialists, ladies and gentlemen, want to help those who need support, and that is why we have tabled this proposal today. – However, they are promoting those who are doing well anyway, and the FPÖ is, of course, strongly involved in this. A federal heating aid, as we propose, would be an act of social justice, but social justice has been very, very strongly stressed in recent years and has also been lost in many areas. I would also like to ask you because the debate in a wide range of areas concerns the question: Which federal country makes it better, and which federal makes it worse? was marked by: Why should the countries actually pay where the federal government has the revenue? This question has not been answered. If we take up the word 'financial compensation', I would like to ask the mayors of your group to speak and to say how they stand for financial compensation and how they have experienced in the last few weeks and months in the negotiations on financial compensation. There it was very quiet, and you know for sure what I'm talking about. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Every time Mr Sozialminister complained about rising energy prices, energy prices rose again on the next or next day – a policy that is in reality speaking, but which lacks action. Politics is characterized by words, that is, there was no money in Vienna. – Of course, there is a grant in Vienna. Money is asked – and less words for that. Perhaps a word is too little on the homepage, which may already be, but those who are concerned know that they get support in Vienna. Therefore, it would be better: less talk and finally act! The granting of a uniform heating aid would be the right action. Voices You agree with the proposal of the Socialists in this House!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e13360	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We are now voting on Amendment No 455/A (E) tabled by Mr Alfred Gusenbauer, colleagues, on the grant of a uniform national heating aid. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this request, to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: (in the direction of ÖVP and the Freeman) Social conscience is zero!]] [[Deputies Mag. Molterer und Kopf:Bürgermeister Häupl!]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Tancsits, Dolinschek, colleagues on heating aid. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: (in the direction of ÖVP and the liberals) Social arrogance!]] – This is the majority, and that is why this request has been accepted. (E 70.) 5. Point Health Committee report on the Government template (614, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law on the Prohibition of the placing on the market of cosmetic products which have been tested in animal testing (631 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e13444	We're now on the 5th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Rasinger. — (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e13469	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Now that the moods have calmed down again, I don't want to put you on torture any longer: The issue of ‘The prohibition of the placing on the market of cosmetic products which have been tested in animal testing’ is a major issue. What is the background to the relevant law? First of all, an EU directive of the European Council, after which we cannot go alone in Austria. The EU demands that we distinguish between: Replacement methods, which are OECD moderately validated, and such methods, in which this is not the case, and which grant transitional periods of not more than six years, in the case of toxicity of ten years. The Second is something of principle: I believe that animal testing for cosmetics is problematic. Of course, we want to protect humans, and there are a lot of cosmetics that can cause skin allergies et cetera, but we know today that the animal experiment is not an optimal means to determine that. On the contrary: One knows today that many tests, for example on rabbits and other animals, were actually a torment for these animals. The animals have the ointments in the skin bag, that is, they have been rubbed into the eye and have seen if the eyes have turned red. In fact, it has zero relevance for people, whether you get an allergy or not. The lack of feasibility of animal testing to human use was therefore an essential reason to delay – and it was expensive above all. So this is an unnecessary cruelty and an unnecessary “extratour. ” I think one should also treat the animal human in a human society, and the protection from alleged damage should not be bought with the suffering of others – especially if there are alternative methods that are validated. That is why we will, of course, agree with the EIA of this bill – even where we save ourselves an EU procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e13508	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e13526	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We Social Democrats welcome the creation of the basis for the development of cosmetic products without animal suffering, and we welcome the fact that after transitional periods, cosmetics are produced without animal testing. This is undoubtedly a good progress that we are happy to support. However, this government template has not complied with our ideas, which is why we have also rejected them in the Committee, but I am very glad that we are now dealing with a joint amendment which clearly sets out unclear points and clearly states that certain substances should no longer be tested in animal testing as from 2009 and 2013. The criminal provisions do not agree with us, because we believe that abuse cannot be prevented by these criminal provisions, but a common goal also needs compromises, and therefore we have also entered into this compromise for less animal suffering. Scientific progress allows new laboratory methods to replace animal testing, and anyone who wants to do so must also support research and development and strengthen research and development. I believe that the government's objective on this issue is too little ambitious. But you can convince us, on the contrary, by acting in Brussels to ensure that the Chemicals Directive does not become a promotion programme for animal testing, because the present draft continues to focus too much on animal testing. I invite the government to become active before national implementation and to contribute to European standards in advance. I am afraid that in other areas, too, the desire and reality are different, because the figures confirm that the government is not primarily committed to less animal suffering, but that it primarily represents the interests of the pharmaceutical and chemical groups, because it would not otherwise be possible that the number of experimental animals has increased by 32 percent since 1999. 172 000 experimental animals exist, and that means that in three-minute steps an animal dies of an experiment. I believe that this is a very dramatic development, and we therefore call on you to reconsider this situation, and we invite you to work together to improve it.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e13569	Next, Mrs Rosenkranz comes to the speaker's desk. Your welcome time is 2 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e13587	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! To date, Austria has been the only country in Europe that has implemented a total ban on animal testing in accordance with a 1976 directive, but it has largely failed to do so because it could only be applied within Austria and was not applicable to the cosmetics industry, which was not in Austria but abroad. This directive was replaced in 2003 by a new one, which is now the basis for a coordinated approach by the European States on this issue. Without any doubt, the animal experiment for verifying cosmetics is in no way a reasonable method; this is not responsible for dealing with the fellow animal. The present law now takes account of this new directive and ensures that animal suffering can be effectively counteracted.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e13617	Mrs Weinzinger has now come to the speaker's desk. 6 minutes welcome. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e13636	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! So far, the debate has not yet reached the announcement by Mr Rasinger that it is an exciting issue, I must confess. This issue has so far been dealt with very briefly and closely, and the tension is still waiting for it. I hope that this is not symptomatic for the topic “Animal trials in Austria”, quite generally seen. However, the fact is that we can only deal with the issue of ‘animal testing’ in the House today because of the need to implement an EU directive and make a corresponding adjustment in Austrian law. The fact is that the government template submitted to the Committee has done very inadequately, and I am therefore all the more pleased that it has succeeded in introducing further amendments to the Committee, and that this has resulted in our having today a four-party amendment that is actually implementing the EU Directive in all its clarity. We could have taken even more stringent measures than the EU provides, but at least what the EU is now being taken over, and we do not have to expect an EU procedure. However, it is also clear that we are dealing here with only a very small area of animal testing, namely the area in which cosmetic products and the trade in cosmetic products are concerned. It is prohibited to carry out animal tests for testing cosmetic products in Austria since 1999. It is also prohibited to trade in cosmetic products tested in animal testing at different stages by 2013, although alternative methods were already available at that time. I am pleased that Mr Rasinger of the ÖVP is understanding that not only is animal suffering to be avoided, but the method of ‘animal testing’ as a test for the effects of products on humans is also questionable. There are enough examples where tests in animal testing have not guaranteed the safety of the product, where despite this there has been allergies. This is also quite clear from the fact that a rabbit, in addition to an albinokant, which is usually used in research, scratches a spot on the back, an animal that is kept under extreme stress – under extreme stress, the immune response usually breaks together first, and allergies are a first result – and then the results achieved at a rabbit, an albinokant, which is a genetic exception, have been transferred to humans in a position-exception situation under extreme stress. I mean, it would actually have to inform everyone that this can't work. We know that it has often not worked enough, and I would be pleased, Mr Rasinger, if we had the common understanding that this is actually absurd and therefore to avoid animal suffering would benefit not only in the area of cosmetics, but also in other areas where animal testing is still going on and going, not least in medical research, animal testing. In medical research, of course, the benefit and risk balance is another, since the decision has to be made differently, I agree with you as well. However, we know that even since alternative methods are already very, very far-reaching in many areas and that scientific results are also achieved if we do tests not on a genetically very distant animal, but on human cell cultures, which may bring much more from the result. I therefore hope that we can actually address the issue of ‘animal testing’ as an exciting issue beyond today’s EU legislation. We'd have the opportunity to do that. There is a request to the Committee on Petitions that the large monkeys should be banned from general animal testing because today, from the results of research, one clearly knows that these animals are not only very close to humans, but also in their forms of perception, in their cognitive abilities, they are almost as sufferingable as those who are a few years old, i.e. like children. Therefore, there is a Europe-wide campaign to in principle prohibit animal experiments on apes. I hope Austria can join this campaign. This would also enable us to develop a little of the reputation that we have just acquired in the area of animal welfare. I also hope that the Scientific Committee, which also has the subject of ‘animal trials’ in the negotiating process, will be able to support the development of the Alternative methods for testing animals. The alternative methods of animal testing, which are in the interests of human safety and in the interests of avoiding animal suffering, are, in fact, subject to research funding today. There is a huge potential, not least location-specific, not uninteresting. Increased funding should be directed in this area. This is something we could do in Austria on our own and what we should use for within the EU, so that the alternative methods of animal testing gradually suppress the animal experiment itself. This will enable us to make progress both in the protection of human beings, i.e. in the safety of test methods for human users, in the protection of animals and in the prevention of animal suffering, in suffering, in which suffering creatures are sometimes added inconceivable proportions. I hope that this was just a start of the animal experiment debate today, and Mr Rasinger is right to say that it is an exciting issue.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e13699	Mrs Bundesminister Rauch-Kallat has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e13717	Mr President. High house! The current federal law on the prohibition of the placing on the market of cosmetic products tested in animal testing is no longer EU-compliant and should therefore be repealed. In Austria, a ban on animal testing in the production of cosmetics has been in force for a long time. Austria had a pioneering role in it. This was a very, very important measure that we had decided a few years ago. This was due to the fact that Austria has no significant large cosmetics industry, even easier to implement than it would probably have been possible in other countries. The present government template can now be used to ensure, in the European context, that cosmetics which produce animal testing, although appropriate alternatives have already been developed and validated, are no longer to be placed on the market. The European Commission will lay down time limits for prohibiting the placing on the market of cosmetic products tested in animal testing and time limits for prohibiting any test with animal testing currently carried out up to six years after the entry into force of this Directive. Since no alternative methods have yet been tested for tests concerning the toxicity of repeated administration, reproductive toxicity and toxicological toxicity, the maximum time limit for the use of the ban will be ten years from the date of entry into force of this Directive. This amendment will take account of the latest developments at European level, and I would like to thank you very much for the fact that, after the Committee's deliberations, it was possible to make a four-party request, and I would also like to thank you for your approval of this matter. I can promise you that, as Minister responsible for animal welfare, I will use all my strength to avoid any animal suffering that is avoidable in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e13754	The next speaker is Mrs Grander. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e13772	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with the amendment tabled by Mrs Maria Grander, Mr Barbara Rosenkranz, Mr Kai Jan Krainerund Mag. Brigid Weinzinger, ladies and gentlemen, on the report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (614 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the Prohibition of the placing on the market of cosmetic products, which has been reviewed in animal testing (631 of the supplements), and I request the President of the Federal Republic of Germany for the scope of this request in accordance with § 53 para. 4 of the Health Organization Act on the distribution of this request to Members. I would like to point out the central point of the request: In order to improve legal certainty and fully implement the Directives, it is necessary to implement the date of the relevant entry into force provisions in the law. . As far as our request in short form is concerned. In January 2003, the Council of Ministers of the European Union and the European Parliament agreed on a compromise text to amend the seventh EU cosmetic directives on the abolition of animal testing in cosmetics. The new directive includes both a marketing ban and an animal test ban. Thus, both the sale of cosmetic products tested in third countries to animals and the testing of animals carried out within the EU for testing new cosmetics will be regulated in the future. The draft law now before us is designed to implement this EU Directive, which aims to align the laws of the Member States relating to cosmetic products. The Directive also contains new rules on information and advertising statements relating to the non-implementation of animal testing. The reference to the packaging that no animal testing has been carried out is permitted only if certain conditions are met. To this end, guidelines need to be drawn up and adopted in the committee procedure. In addition, the Directive contains new rules to protect the health of consumers or to improve information on cosmetic products available on the market. By setting the dates for the entry into force of the prohibitions, a strong impetus is set for the development and recognition of animal testing-free methods. At the initiative of the European Centre for the Validation of Alternative Methods under the direction of the European Commission, a working group was set up in March 2003 to implement the replacement of animal testing on time and to avoid further animal suffering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e13830	According to § 53 para. 4 Rules of Procedure – Mrs Colleague, you are possessed of health, because you have said “health organisation law”; They are thinking of health, we are in favour of the Rules of Procedure – is sufficiently supported, is involved in the negotiation and is distributed as requested. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e13927	Mrs Schasching has now arrived at the speaker's desk. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e13945	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The amendment tabled by my previous speaker welcomes the approval of the SPÖ Group, as has already been said several times, and I am very pleased that despite the controversial discussion in the Committee, despite the very strong committee debate, our ideas for extending this law and our proposals as well as the Green Group's proposals have been included in the amendment, and we therefore very much agree with this law, which, at least, helps to avoid animal suffering for the introduction of cosmetics. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In this context, I would also like to take a brief look at how this committee has gone. There the debates, as already mentioned, were very intense, and there it was once again, as we are already accustomed by this government, that it was refused to bring a health report to the plenary. We have very, very sorry, because we believe that this very good aid for all of our work, this good basis for illuminating a matter, would well have deserved a broader debate. I am thinking only of how strongly representatives of the media have visited this committee. I therefore believe that this could be a common concern to be able to debate health reports again in the plenary session. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the other points that we have debated in this committee. – I think we are going to be in conformity with many points. One of these points is that we to pay particular attention to health prevention. There are many different prevention measures, such as the areas of healthy nutrition, but there are – and you will certainly wait for it – also the area of exercise. I would like, Mrs Federal Minister, to see the health objectives of Austria, which you will also present to us in the Committee and to which you have submitted an interim report, particularly the value of the movement as a means of health care. We all know that this has to be started in the early childhood, especially in the area of cardiovascular diseases and in the area of the diseases of the motion and support apparatus, to take precautions, to motivate one to move with joy and, above all, life-long, and this healthy movement is then also an important measure in order to save overall costs in the health system. I therefore address this because I know very well about the value of the movement, which you also appreciate. And I also know that you would appreciate continuing this, although you did not succeed, despite the campaigns you have tried to start, to prevent the unhealthy cancellations of hours of gymnastics and non-binding exercises, of hours that have fallen victim to Mrs Gehrer's detachment. That is why I am trying to continue to keep this in mind and to include it in the health objectives. Then we will certainly be able to give this our assent.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e14002	The next speaker is Mr Wittauer. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e14031	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Of course I have less to do with cosmetics, but animal protection is an essential area I have always been concerned with, and I am also happy that in this area all four parties are drawing on one strand. That is why it is not surprising to me that a four-party request has been made, which aims to avoid animal experiments on a permanent basis in connection with cosmetics. But especially in the case of animal experiments relating to the medical sectors, we have a major problem. Of course, there is a need to make efforts – and I am right to give Mrs Weinzinger the right that we need more money to support it. Alternative methods must be supported in the way that animal suffering is not only avoided but permanently prohibited. When you look at the numbers, you know that there are double ranges there. There must be no double testing of animals and a European database should be supported to avoid such double attempts. I think we agree, and I think we have really taken care of animal welfare, starting with the animal welfare law itself. As far as Mr Weinzinger's requests are concerned, they are certainly a basis for discussion. We will certainly find an overall consensus and we will then be able to decide on applications together.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e14073	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hütl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e14092	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria has been a pioneer in the animal protection ban on cosmetic products – that has already been implemented by Mrs. Federal Minister of Smoking-Kallat – and has implemented these provisions in the form of a total ban on the protection of animals. However, the existing federal law is no longer EU-compliant, i.e. a new EU directive must be implemented – a fact that we take into account this government template. Within the EU, consumers can be sure that cosmetic products are subject to the same quality requirements that they are manufactured, documented and controlled in accordance with the same rules. I am particularly important that you get away from animal testing for cosmetics – to alternative test methods. In the meantime, various alternative methods have been developed that make animal experiments in the cosmetics industry superfluous: For example, improved testing strategies or computer-aided methods that compare substances to their structures and allow conclusions on their effect. I would also like to mention the test on cell cultures in this context. As early as the 1950s, the so-called 3-R concept was developed based on three pillars. These three “R” refer to reflection, reduction, replacement, which can be translated about with improvement, reduction and replacement. I would also like to point out that some 8,400 cosmetic ingredients have been tested in the EU for their human safety. Around 90 percent of the cosmetics that are newly placed on the market are made up of these well-known ingredients, but in other compositions. In conclusion: I would like to thank Mrs Bundesminister Rauch-Kallat for taking a good lead in this law, both in Austria and in the EU. And I mean, at the end of this path, we should have completely adopted animal experiments for cosmetics and thus animal suffering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e14132	Next word: Mr. Dr. Herbs. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e14150	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Allow me to make a few final observations on the part of the SPÖ Group. It is positive that there is an agreement – on pressure from the EU, we must say that already. And, of course, it is positive that this is being debated publicly in Parliament, so that is all right. ==References== However, ladies and gentlemen, at a committee meeting, we did not talk “only” about animals, but also about people, in connection with the 2003 health report. And I would like to continue where Mr Schasching has stopped. It cannot be said that we are talking about animals, but we are not talking about humans – and it is therefore not to be seen, Mrs Minister, that ÖVP and FPÖ have refused to debate the health report here, for example on issues such as health agencies or chip card. If we debate this late evening on the establishment of a committee of inquiry, you, ladies and gentlemen, will have been fleeing from the government parties for a long time. But these are important issues that people are very concerned with, not only about important health projects, but also about the mismanagement. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! You owe us an opinion! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek stands at the government bank and talks with the Federal Minister for Smoking.]] Mrs Brinek, you do not need to distract the Minister of Foreign Affairs; I have something to say. Mr President, I would ask that this be suspended, that during my speech, Mrs Brinek should talk to Mrs Minister. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: I only have...!]] [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mrs Bundesminister, you owe the House a statement on why the 2003 health report is not discussed publicly here! Why is ÖVP refusing to do so, Mrs. Minister?! – Please do not tell us: because the majority did not want to! The respect for the intelligence of Members should prevent this from happening!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e14199	The last speaker was: Mr Lichtenegger. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e14217	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! The nice thing about our joint requests is that there is really a pleasant discussion climate here – but the stupid thing is that not many mandates are here now. In order to return briefly to this meeting of the Health Committee which has already been discussed: As far as I can remember, the 2003 health report was also the subject of the discussion, and as far as I can remember, Mr Oellinger said that it was difficult to discuss things that had been going on for three years, because the 2003 health report is mainly about things from 2001, with a perspective on 2003. I do not understand, therefore, that you, Mr Herb, are now saying: Why don't we discuss health reform and chip card? These issues were, in part, not part of this 2003 report! – That’s once the one. Another “highlight” of this part-of-the-art meeting of the Health Committee was that Mr Lacner was offered by the SPÖ to a private body by Mrs Bundesminister Rauch-Kallat. And I can also remember that the SPÖ was called for a “complete solution” in the field of health. That's what I thought: Well, actually, they're right, let's see what came from SPÖ's side. I did not expect much anyway, because last Sunday I read an interview with Mr. Matznetter in the “Small Newspaper”. He has been asked what is going on with the SPÖ – and then Mr Matznetter has said that he does not want to get in touch in terms of content. So I noticed: From a proposal on the subject I cannot expect too much health policy from ordained matznetters. On that I downloaded some things from the SPÖ homepage, namely “Starting clear for Austria”. “Gusenbauer starts “Start-Clarification Tour” there. As far as health reform is concerned, at the very beginning there are fine headings, and I would also like to point out, by the way, a spelling error there, if someone reads it. On the whole of four pages there are proposals from SPÖ, the first three of which concern only OECD reports, for example, stating that the OECD notes that between 1970 and 2000 health expenditure in Austria was only below average. I thought, now I'm going to see who was responsible at that time. . I do not think I need to say this at all, because you know anyway why the budget has been under-average at the time. In any case, that was not our responsibility. – In any case, you have, my Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ to write something like this into your health program. Furthermore, you have three proposals from the SPÖ on this homepage, where you can read that the OECD proposes these three steps. And as far as your goals are concerned – look, look!, I can only say there – it is your job that everyone should have the opportunity to stay healthy in the public health system. That's what I've been thinking: This is a proposal that no one has ever come to; once a little “real new”! And on your homepage is: improve health care. – Once a really straight idea; there you really need “smoothing heads” in order to define that as a goal. A obviously new proposal in your health policy, a new proposal in general SP policy, you demand “transparency” and “democratic legitimacy”. – Obviously, this is a revision of your old health reform plan, where there was no transparency, where it was not democratic! – And then it remains to be read that 28 SP health initiatives could be implemented at the parliamentary level. “Improvement for people?”; you write this from the SPÖ on your homepage with question mark. So they ask themselves whether this was really an improvement. All in all: I've already been a little disappointed. It is easy to say in the Health Committee that we demand a “complete solution” from SPÖ, but: Such a holistic solution would have been needed 20 years ago – and could also have done so at a time when you were responsible for health policy by the SPÖ, it is known that measures in health policy need at least 20 years until they actually take action. If that were not the case, we would not have the problems we just have today. But you didn't think of the SPÖ at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e14282	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is therefore closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Grander, Mr Rosenkranz, Mr Krainer, Mr Weinzinger, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an amendment. First of all, I will vote on the provisions concerned by the proposed amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Grander, Mr Rosary, Mr Krainer, Mr Weinzinger, Mr President, have tabled an amendment concerning paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of the draft law. I am looking for a sign of this to those ladies and gentlemen who are speaking in favour of it. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the draft government proposal. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a sign. – The rest of the proposal is also unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are also in favour of this draft law at the third reading, to have a sign of approval. – The draft law was also adopted unanimously at third reading. 6. Point Report by the Health Committee on the Government Template (504 e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act amending the Federal Law on the Protection of the Life and Health of Workers in Work in Pressurized Air and in Diving and the Maternity Law 1979 (632 d.b.) 7. Point Report and request of the Health Committee on the draft federal law amending the Father's Cardiac Law (633, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e14358	We now come to points 6 and 7 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are immediately entering the debate. As the first speaker, Mrs Mag. Weinzinger. Desirable time: 6 minutes. – Mrs Colleague, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e14385	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. Minister! High house! Behind this title “pressurized air and diving” are actually completely different debates in the Committee and for reality in Austria. For the time being, I am only allowed to comment very briefly on the law itself, which is an adjustment that was needed by an EU directive. We agree, of course, with the adaptation itself, but we do not agree with the wording of the law. It is rather bizarre that a law now contains some changes that are neutral to sex, although there was an opinion by the Minister of Women, who said she would have liked to formulate the whole law in a gender-neutral way, and in her opinion also very clearly suggested how it had to be done – for example, that it is not only “the employee” or “the lockkeeper”, especially if one has already formulated the word “gasmann” in the same text. So there is a chewing fox that is not comprehensible. This is one point where I would like to follow the views of the Minister for Women and also ask – I did so in the Committee – that the whole law be formulated in a neutral way. If so, then! I can understand the explanation that I then received after the Committee – as it was said that in principle there was nothing against formulating it across gender neutral, but then one would have introduced paragraphs of language which are completely out of date. Now it is true that one does not necessarily change something that is completely obsolete in content, then only in language. However, this is not necessarily a reason for the Greens to agree to one thing now, not to make them neutral in sex and to leave them out of date. – So do not take our rejection of the law as a content, but as a symbolic one that points out that not only should one make the most necessary thing – what the EU calls for – but that one should actually do nails with heads and bring a law up to date both in terms of content and in terms of language. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Of course, much more exciting was the fact that under the title of "pressurized air and diving", we actually debated the father's karenz and dealt with a change of the father's karenz law. Again, a change that the EU is demanding us – but at the same time also an opportunity to improve father's care, make it easier to live for parents in Austria, and to give a clear impulse that it is also politically desirable that the care work of children be taken over by both parents. But this is not possible, just as the Father's Carenz Act is now in place, but – on the contrary – it will continue to be hampered by non-reality regulations set out in this law. I would like to take two firsts of all. One thing is: This law prohibits both parents from going to Karenz at the same time. [[Abg. Steibl: That's a fool! That's not true! You can both go to Karenz!]] This means that you are interfering with the question of how the parents want to divide the care work and whether they can do it at the same time. The only thing you admit to them is that they can go one month overlapping in Karenz if, so to speak, “the passing takes place”: if one parent was in Karenz before, the next takes over, so to speak, then there is an overlapping one month. Mrs Steibl, I hope you will also know the law, and you will confirm to me that it is not possible for two parents to share a half year of Karenz, both of whom go to Karenz at the same time. It is not even possible – and we have made this proposal to you in the Committee – if you already say that you do not want to go as far as the Greens would suggest – to flexibly give parents the option of sharing the care work – that they are at least one step towards them and say: In the first three months after the birth of a child, where the loads are often greatest, where the distribution of roles between the couples is shown to take place and where they should be made as possible as they choose, they could be given the opportunity to go in Karenz at the same time. – No, not even this small step yet! They actually prescribe to parents that only one of them should be responsible for the child. In addition, you prescribe to the parents that they may only go to Karenz and feel responsible for the child if there is a shared household with this child. That means: If parents live separately, de facto only the parent with whom the child lives can go to Karenz, the other not. If, as in most cases, the mother says, for example, she goes into Karenz for a year and a half, two and a half years and then gets back into the acquisition – she usually has problems ensuring childcare anyway – but the father would be willing to go to Karenz for half a year or a year, so this is not possible because he does not live in the same household with the child. And you will not assume that a “flying handover” takes place where you will send the child like a postpackerl to the other parent, and it will be there for the next half year or year. They interfere, you say, that it must not be that a parent then becomes employed again and the second, who does not live together with mother and child or father and child, then takes over the care tasks. – That is what I call a smooth interference policy on how parenting is lived and how parenting is shared! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We will therefore not vote in favour of this proposal. I believe that it has been an important opportunity to give more favourable omens and to free parents from living flexibly and self-determined parenthood and taking advantage of care opportunities. – Maybe it will work in the next run!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e14442	Now, Mrs Steibl is speaking. 5 minutes welcome. – You are speaking, Mrs Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e14460	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! To my previous speaker, only the following words were said: I believe that the practice looks quite different and that it is a pity that the SPÖ and the Greens together are always swirling about the very, very good regulations – whether it be the childcare allowance now, whether it be the karenz period or the possibility to accept father's care. No father is prevented from fulfilling this beautiful duty within the 30 months in which there is child care allowance, plus the six months, this obligation to do so. However, I would like to present a few more facts about this bill: Yes, it is true that, in connection with the amendment to the regulation on compressed air and diving, which provides for a linguistic equal treatment for women and men, an application was submitted, in accordance with Article 27 of the Rules of Procedure, on amendment to the law on the protection of mothers and fathers. There is a European Union's wish for this, and we should address it. The fact that it was happening in this committee can be discussed. The fact is that we have to implement this and that it has happened in this committee. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] Equality is now taking place in this context. The EU said that the mother had been given priority. This priority is missing. However, it remains for the parents – for example, they always talk about “genders” – to decide which of them will take care of when and how long. Allow me to refer this directly to your accusation, Mrs Weinzinger, which is that the government parties have smuggled it in somewhere. – I believe that this has not been a smuggle-in, but, as already mentioned, has been done to act – and we as the government party have the task of acting as well. In an issue that I do not want to go further – you know what you did on the last committee – you presented something that was simply wrong, and then it was very easy to say: Yes, that was the poor employee. – I think that in the end he or she is always responsible for what goes out. I just want to say: Fathers and mothers can use Karenz in the presence of a shared household. On the other hand, that parents share a household is not required, nor was it. That is, the father can have a household, the mother can have a household, only: that the child should be with the father or with the mother, that is, I think, half normal – because I don't need to go in Karenz if I don't have the child in care. So I think you should leave the church a little in the village, Mrs. Weinzinger! I raised a child myself, and I wouldn't have given my husband karenz if he didn't care for the child. [[Abg. May. Weinzinger: This has nothing to do with... household!]] I would also like to say, of course, that it would have been a chance to do more here in the direction of Father's Care. But I think we are moving forward step by step, and I would like to mention that we have introduced parental leave, that we have introduced many other services to which my colleagues are going to address, and that family support – and this has been very clearly implemented by the Minister of Finance on the morning – is up to €5.3 billion. That means that the families are very, very important to us in this context. Let me take a brief look at Europe in order to make this happen: In Portugal, fathers are entitled to five days after the birth of the child, in Italy only if the mother is seriously ill, in France fathers are entitled to three days after birth and eleven days within the first four months. What is also possible with us: Fathers can very well go to Karenz within this time – I have already told you. Nevertheless, I naturally call on more and more fathers to find the courage to go in Karenz. There are clearly too few fathers, even though births are rising – but perhaps it is just the increase in birth rate that there are also more fathers. With us, in our club, we now have a very young father and also a second who will have a baby with his wife in the next few days. Maybe they're also a good example. In this sense: It would be nice if you agreed.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e14503	The next speaker was Mrs Csörgits. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e14523	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Two comments to my previous speaker: I agree with you that more men should take the opportunity to go to Karenz. The only problem is that exactly during your government, the protection against termination for fathers has deteriorated. In other words, it is not only necessary to have courage to go in Karenz, but it needs very special courage, because of course the protection of termination has been shortened. [[Abg. Steibl: That's not true at all...!]] Of course it is true, Mrs Colleague: The notice of termination has been shortened. In the past, the protection of termination was such that, if the father had reported at the earliest on the day of the child's birth, he wanted to take part of the leave of the Carenz during that period, until the end of his part of the car, he had been protected from announcement. Now it's only a month before he goes to Karenz. . I know what I am talking about, because I also advise colleagues in connection with the karenz and the father's karenz. – But here I take out the positive: Let us try to change this law together, so that more men can go to Karenz too! We might be able to do this together. Now to the very point to which I have to speak. In this context, I would like to take a brief look at the meeting of the Health Committee of Revue and to make two critical comments: firstly, the critical remark that the health report unfortunately did not come to the plenary, although we all know that health is very much in the heart of the Austrians. It would certainly have deserved a wider public. My second criticism relates to the fact that – as in many other committees, but especially in the Health Committee – the government parties are relinquishing everything that comes from the opposition to applications, and whether it is still so good. This is not a good style, because I believe that these proposals can also be very positive and make good laws on these points. With regard to the government paper, which is the subject of this item on the agenda, I can say that we will agree to the change. There is a need to adapt on the basis of a procedure within the framework of the European Union. However, I would like to say critically that we are not happy with the fact that while some parts of the law have been formulated in a neutral way, the law has still not been consistently formulated in a gender neutral way, although there has been an opinion by the Federal Minister for Women and Health on this matter, which I too would like to mention here in particular. The second thing I would also like to criticize is the fact that no catalog of criteria under which workers could return to work after a compressed air disease. I believe that men could benefit as much as women. I am therefore sorry that we could not reach an agreement here together. And to the parental care, just a hint: It would be important here that in the very rare disputes in which the two cannot agree, a dispute settlement is taken in the direction of giving priority to women. I'm sorry this didn't work out. However, we will nevertheless agree to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e14560	The next speaker was Mrs Rosenkranz. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e14578	Madam President. Minister! High house! A brief opinion on what is actually available here: This is a government template which contains a revision of the work in compressed air as well as in diving and amends the Mother Protection Act 1979. This has become necessary on the basis of a proposal from the European Commission. It removes the ban on the employment of female workers and the necessary changes in the area of sanitary facilities, and, as mentioned, some terms are amended. This is a necessary innovation, and we will give our assent to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e14606	Mr Bartenstein has now been reported to speak. Please, Federal Minister, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e14624	Madam President. High house! Very soon: I thank you for the obvious broad understanding of the House of Lords for the necessary changes which are substantial to the end. In particular, the amendment of the Father's Care Act will in reality bring little change. A priority for the mother in the case of the case has been criticised by the European Union as non-EU compliance. A dispute resolution mechanism called for by Mrs Csörgits – they have said: it will only rarely be used – is something that is quite imaginable, but we do not want to do so without consideration of the social partners and without detailed discussion, because, in the case of the case, it does involve intervention in very internal family matters. But if there is a reasonable mechanism for these few cases, we are quite open to a proposal from the social partners. As far as the criticism of Mrs Weinzinger is concerned, I believe that you have shown the correspondence with our section chief, Szymanski, that we, ladies and gentlemen, have tried and tried to develop or obtain gender-neutral formulations already in the rapid procedure. But if only this regulation had to be handled with 150 to 170 revision orders – this alone shows you that a rapid shot would not have been appropriate here. A general clause, as we have now foreseen, is permitted in accordance with the legislative guidelines of the Constitutional Service in the Federal Chancellor's Office. But, of course, the foreseeable complete rework and innovation of the air and diving work regulation will, as always held by my house, include gender-neutral formulations, so that I would like to ask you at this point to consider whether or not You cannot give the approval to the forthcoming renewal. Madam President, I would like to thank you for your speech.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e14663	The next item is the report by Mr Rasinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e14682	Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! As is widely known, we are talking about a correction to avoid an EU procedure. I would like Mrs Weinzinger to jump over their shadows and acknowledge that Austria is currently leading in Europe in Karenzane. [[Abg. Mandak: But you know how difficult that is! It's technical!]] You can do more and more, you can always improve something, that is clear, and you should also strive for improvement. But if you look at reality, you have to say that we are already very far here in Austria. As a man I say it's very positive, because it brings us a little more rights, actually rights that we've probably already had, but unfortunately probably far too often do not benefit. If we are purely formalistic, the EU has now given us a small advantage by not having to give up the mother's claim explicitly; we can also use Karenz in this way. I hope that more men will go in Karenz, because I believe that this is not bad for the education of children and is certainly desirable in the sense of equality. In this sense, we will, of course, give our consent to this law by the ÖVP.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e14716	The next speaker is Mr Erwin Spindelberger. Voluntary time limit: also 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e14738	Ladies and gentlemen! I am glad that we are dealing today with the agenda items of the Health Committee from the previous week. I would like to link this to explaining here a little closer the health policy of the government parties. We will, of course, support and agree to the Federal Law on the Protection of the Life and Health of Workers in Work in Pressurized Air and Diving. This is also necessary in the light of the infringement procedure sought by the European Commission. However, I am always surprised when the Federal Minister – who once again shines in her chapter through absence – says that we should make “jointly” a future-oriented health policy. Therefore, what actually happens in practice must also be put in the right light. We from the SPÖ are prepared to cooperate constructively, but it seems that the representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ do not want to do so at all, because their policy has nothing to do with one another at all. Let me look back three years. What happened back then? – Just because you couldn't need a trade unionist at the time, namely Hans Sallmutter, in the main association, they told him: Because you're not able to handle the deficits, you're leaving! For three years now, we have had trustees from ÖVP and FPÖ at the head of the main association, and what is the case now? – The health insurance companies are piped out of the last hole! [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: The deficits have become smaller!]] [[Abg. Head: Vienna has a deficit like never before!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Die Wiener!]] In 2006 a deficit of € 1 billion will be expected – even though you have turned the contribution screw higher on pensioners and employees and have put a lot of stress on voters. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: It is also expenditure...!]] Why don't you talk to us in the committees about our specific proposals? - We've already brought in 28. That's where I say: You do not talk to us in terms of content, because you really have no idea of a good, socially oriented health care, because you lack at all the necessary knowledge to do so. [[Abg. Head: Thank you, Mr. Oberlehrer! Thank you, Professor!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] What you're doing is just going over it and nothing else! You have taken away the pensioners from the lamentable pension increase of €10.02 once again by contribution increases and reflect on self retention. In your inimitable noise of power, you are now going to replace the bodies in the main association-new with loud blacks, just to continue your non-social policy there as well. The Minister is still standing down and says that all the ambulatories, all hospitals belonging to social insurance, are now to be divided into operating companies. That's what I'm saying: Good night, Social Affairs Austria, with your politics! After the Minister of Finance said in the morning: “2005 is going to be a good year” – and he also said: “if content and headline are voting,” I hope that these are just headlines, because the politics you are making is no longer going to cow’s skin!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e14836	The next item is Mrs Riener's speech. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e14855	Madam President, Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the High House! I would like to say to Mr Spindelberger: I am now trying to return to the actual item on the agenda. Surely we have debated the whole law in the Health Committee, but you also know that Mrs Bundesminister Rauch-Kallat said there: In fact, it would have been to be debated in the Committee. We are talking about this – and I would like to return to that – that the German law on the protection of the life and health of workers in the event of work in compressed air as well as in diving and the Mother Protection Act in 1979 should be modernised. To this end, I would like to say: It is good to ensure that women and men – as some previous speakers have already noted – are offered the same professional opportunities. In future, women will be able to work in compressed air if they are fit for health purposes. ==References====External links== The age limit of 45 years must be completed for these activities to be carried out. Women will also be able to work as lockers in the future. or as a signal person. However, they also have the opportunity to take over responsibility for the supply of air gas. Now when I take the city of Graz, I'm glad that's under Mayor Mag. Siegfried Nagl – he has been mayor of Graz for a year and a half – is supposed to fall the last male bastion. Mayor Nagl is currently working out a novel, according to which in future women – of course in the event of fitness – should also be able to work in the Graz professional fire brigade, especially since the women at the volunteer fire brigades have already demonstrated that they stand their wife. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But back to these novels: Of course, in this area, in diving or in pressure chambers, special attention is paid to the protection of the mother becoming or breast-feeding. This protection also applies to the unborn child. I am concerned that women in all areas of this particular protection know, so that it does not happen, for example, that a mother who is becoming does not know – and is not informed by the service provider – that she has no night's willingness or no night's service. The trade unionists are also called here, because it is ultimately about protecting the mother and the unborn child. Parents and parents who become parents need to be supported. For this reason, it is also incomprehensible for me that in the Styria region of the SPÖ-dominated social resort of dedicated staff, a parent advice concept has been developed for more than eight years, but has not been decided and implemented. This should make it possible for the current parents' advice centres to be extended throughout the country, so that parents from larger children to puberty receive professional advice. At the federal level, the ÖVP-FPÖ government is concerned with families, such as child care, the right to part-time or the tax relief of families, but also with family hospice. So you can't say it often enough: The ÖVP is the party that is there for the Austrians and their concerns. The SPÖ is designed – the ÖVP is implementing!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e14906	The next item is Mrs Scharer's speech. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e14924	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ Group agrees with the present report and request for a draft federal law amending the Father's Carenz Act. Of course, we also ask ourselves whether this would not have been better placed in the Committee on Labour and Economic Affairs, Mr Minister, or also in the Family Committee – but anyway! In this context, we think – it is a ongoing process and very important to point out – that the missing framework conditions prevent more fathers from taking care of karenz times. 2.5 percent are not really positive, but almost 40 percent of fathers would like to take care of the karenz. I say once that this government is always famous as a particularly family-friendly one, but de facto is lacking in many areas the corresponding accompanying measures. Ladies and gentlemen! There are no effective incentives to change or improve the gender division of work. Budgetary resources for the creation of childcare facilities, especially those with opening hours adapted to the labour market, are not available and seem to be a foreign word to this government. The kindergarten billions already provided by the SPÖ under Barbara Prammer had reduced the shortage of places, and now one can see that there has simply been nothing in this regard since the change of government in the beginning of 2000. There is a lack of support for children under three years of age, and there is also a lack of afternoon care. They boast of a job increase by the coalition parties and know that 80 percent are not existential jobs. Above all, it is the dramatic development that is now taking place, that due to the commitment limit, women serve more or less as buffers on the labour market again. [[Abg. Head: When you were entitled to part-time, all this was too little for you!]] [[Abg. Head: What now: yes or yes?]] This is a very poor development. [[Abg. Head: Pensions!]] One thing is clear: Due to the poorer average income for women, the family loses significantly more family income in the case of father's care, and there is no evidence in this regard that you are countering this. It is embarrassing how, for example, Minister Grasser spoke today about the strained labour market situation or how much unemployment is bagatized by this government. We claim that precisely this tense labour market situation prevents the compatibility of work and family life and strengthens traditional gender roles. If sustainability in relation to child rearing is really important to you, then take accompanying measures to facilitate access to father's care. [[Abg. Head: The lowest unemployment rate in all EU countries!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e15001	The next speaker is Mrs Hellerer. You too have opted for a 3 minute voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e15022	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I welcome it in principle that you want to give your consent from the SPÖ to these two legislative amendments. I think that from the Greens regarding the Federal Law on the Protection of Workers in Work in Pressurized Air as well as in Diving and the Mother Protection Act, there may still be a change in meaning. They have heard from the Federal Minister the explanation of why it was not possible in this short period to formulate the whole law without gender and to adapt it in terms of content and language accordingly. I would like to stress here that I was also somewhat surprised that the amendments to these two laws were discussed in the Health Committee and are being negotiated today in one unit. But you also know that there is this need and that the changes due to infringement procedures are necessary because the EU forces Austria to make these changes. Mrs Weinzinger has also given an opinion on the father's karenz and said that she finds it very exciting that the Father's Carenz Act is discussed. Of course, political impulses are also desired from our side, and of course we are also prepared to move forward step by step in order to be particularly specific. In this area, there is an increasing willingness of the fathers to go to Karenz and to devote themselves to family care. I am, however, somewhat surprised that you feel that you are a part of the fact that the child is supposed to be living with the parent who eventually takes care of the care work as a interference in the parents' private life, because I must tell you very well that the child can only really be cared for if it lives in a household with the caring parent. This possibility exists under the Childcare Money Act, and of course there is also flexibility so that both parents can take care of it today.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e15061	Next, Mrs Mag. All right, let's talk. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e15080	Madam President. Minister! High house! With regard to the Parental Leave Directive, the Austrian Federal Government has a infringement procedure on the part of the European Union, so to speak, and we are now preparing this infringement procedure in order to fulfil our obligations under the European Treaties. It is now explicitly stated that both parents cannot go to Karenz at the same time. A very essential requirement of children's friends is the father's month. It is important that both parents take care of the children and that, in particular, fathers make contact with their children, not only playfully on the weekend for one, two hours, but also in the daily duties and experiences. . I notice at the laugh of some of the colleagues on the part of the government groups that this is still a very great utopia for you, but I know that we are working on utopia and will realize it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Even if you now say that this is a dangerous threat, I have to tell you that we have heard all day: The government is acting! – No, what a government should do, it must rule! [[Cheerfulness of the Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] But in doing this, I often think it's very important that you think before you act. [[Demonstratetive applause with the ÖVP]] Otherwise, you would not be proud to point to some very large bubbles in our society, such as the family hospice, which has only used 150 people in Austria so far. [[Abg. May. Molterer: What is that? A bubble?]] Here again is a very big bubble from your side, because the family members who want to accompany dying relatives are in no way supported by the fact that they can stay with their family members because they cannot give up their income and there is no compensation from the state. As far as childcare is concerned, there are very ominous discussions about how many childcare places are actually missing. There are examples of this from the Minister and the Secretary of State, who are far from any reality. So there is a very long list here, which shows that the government sometimes only spins around and is far away from acting for the people in our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e15140	The next speaker was Mr Wöginger. Mr President, you, too, have imposed 3 minutes of voluntary speaking time restrictions. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e15162	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! As a growing father, it is my particular concern to take a stand on this issue. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Bravorufe at the ÖVP.]] Family policy and child care are constantly criticized. In the course of this debate, I would like to point out briefly our family policy achievements. We also need not hide the international comparison: Throughout Europe, we are in the forefront, if not directly at the forefront of state family benefits. Here are just a few measures: With 1. The childcare allowance was introduced in January 2002, and all parents benefit, regardless of whether it is a housewife, an employee, a farmer or a student. [[Abg. May. Lapp: And where do the fathers stay?]] For example, in the 2005 budget, some €1.4 billion is estimated, plus € 275,000 compared to the previous year. With 1. In January 2003, the family allowance for children was increased by €7.30 from the fourth year of life. Or: ==References== On July 1, 2004, there is the right to parental leave, the recently decided family package under the tax reform, the increase in the amount of earnings paid by the single earnings reduction and additional child supplements. It's also the budget. I have chosen it from the new 2005 report: The total FLAF expenditure is €5.2 billion, which is a plus of about €1 billion compared to the year 2000. In this way, we are far above the European average, ladies and gentlemen. I would just like to point out that we have created very good conditions and offer young couples the opportunity and the conditions for choosing children. Finally, I would like to say: We have very good and balanced measures that allow parents freedom of choice in child rearing. Today's laws in the Mother and Father's Care Act also go in this direction. The number of fathers who go to Karenz is rising, perhaps not to the extent that we would like it to be, but I believe that the parental scheme is much better for young families than the discussed father-protection month. Why? – Because not only should it last a few weeks when the child is in the world, but the father should be able to accompany the child for longer. We should continue to act step by step in child rearing policy. We are here on a good, very family-friendly path, and this will remain so thanks to this federal government.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e15213	As the last speaker, Mrs Mandak spoke. Ladies and gentlemen, you too have been given 3 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e15235	Madam President. High house! I must return to the father's claim to be able to go to Karenz once again if both parents do not live in a common household. This is obviously a misunderstanding, because you stay father and mother, even if the couple separate. It is not about the fact that only those parents who live together and may still be married. That's exactly one of the big problems that happens very often – in most cases the fathers because the children stay with the mothers – fathers agree from their responsibility as fathers that fathers are not present, not there. So this is about a group of fathers who do not live with the mother of their child, which is simply the case more often, but who still want to take responsibility for their child and care for this child. Several of you have said you want this, including you, colleague Hellerer. [[Abg. Hellererer: If they live in a common household!]] – If the parents cannot live in a common household because they do not tolerate, it is nevertheless very possible that the child lives with the mother, the mother is working and the father is caring for the child. Why can't he go to Karenz, please? Now tell me! [[Abg. Steibl: He can do it!]] This has to do with your picture of how families have to be, and those who fall out have had bad luck and cannot perceive this possibility. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: We would like to hear the explanation!]] We are committed to the fact that it is really possible for all fathers to use this time of leave. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The second aspect concerns the gender-neutral formulation of the law. Mr Bartenstein! They meant that it was very difficult and very laborious to change the laws purely in language. Believe me, it's also very laborious to always hear about laws that are always male. This leads to highly paradoxical things, such as in a Vorarlberger Landesgesetz, in which it is said that a servant is pregnant and works with a married servant. That was so crazy! Thus, the same-sex marriage – which pleased me – is indirectly already established in a Vorarlberg law. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So it's really high time you take gender. You can't say we never do it because it's tough. There will probably be opportunities and solutions as to how we will deal with it in the future when laws are modernised, and at the same time to ensure that they are also formulated in a gender-neutral way. This concerns a whole host of laws. If the will is there, you will find a way. You have our support completely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e15314	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish the final word? - That's not the case. We shall therefore proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the German law on the protection of the life and health of workers in the event of work in compressed air as well as in diving and the Mother Protection Act 1979, including the title and receipt in 632 of the supplements. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Finally, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Father's Care Act, including title and entry into 633 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give this draft law an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall also come to the third reading here immediately. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 8. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (616 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law, which amends the Commercial Code 1994, the Realtor's Act, the Insurance Contract Act, the Insurance Supervision Act and the Banking Act (629 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e15391	We're now on the 8th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I therefore open the debate. First, Mr Magistrate. Moser to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e15419	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The implementation of the EU Insurance Directive should be up to 15. Next year. In order to achieve this, it is necessary, in 1994, to ensure that the rules of commerce, the brokers' law, are to amend the law and the banking law. We have had a very extensive discussion about this in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and it has been shown that the materials are relatively complex. What are the objectives of this directive? – The aim of this EU Directive is primarily to harmonise the right of insurance intermediaries at European level. A second objective is the implementation of the principle of freedom to provide services, so it is about liberalising this service, as well as ultimately, and this is particularly important for us to strengthen and highlight consumer protection. What are the critical points? – There are numerous criticisms and difficult cornerstones to eliminate. I want to focus on two of these. The first point to be critically highlighted is the merger of the commercial brokers and agent – that is, a very important point – which in itself represent completely different interest groups: the brokers the customers, the agent, so to speak, the insurers. Therefore, when it comes to merger, there are immediately major conflicts of interest. The second important point is the removal of the double-acting ban. This is also problematic because insurance can offer a lot and the customer gets into great trouble. Although this is disillusioned by the declaration obligation, this is nevertheless a one-sided disadvantage of the customer. The withdrawal of the multiple agent structure is particularly important, without product competition. Of course, with the new markets that are emerging here – this is the entire precautionary market – this means that there is great uncertainty. What are the consequences? – The first consequence is that insurance customers have a genuinely sustainable uncertainty. This is once the consumer, but that is also the economy. It is completely unclear in what role someone is facing. Is it an agent, a broker, or a multiple agent? Although he has to declare himself, it is unclear for the customer. It's something like a mediator-chameleon, as someone called it so beautiful: He changes color, and I don't know who I'm dealing with anymore. Another criticism in this context is that there is a return to legal certainty. The consumer, the insurance customer loses his ex ante protection, because he has to sue his rights in retrospect under the new regulation, thereby changing the risk. This means that the customer has very high information costs with increasing legal uncertainty and possible increasing legal costs. In this context, we have also discussed the fact that many legal uncertainties are of a general nature. There are legal opinions of professors who have found constitutional illegality and also EU non-conformity. Therefore, we Socialists are opposed to this law in its present form and are submitting an amendment which should be taken into account for the second reading, essentially with two points: the clear separation between brokers and agents, which is to ensure that there is no merger of the commercial brokers and agents. We need transparency and security for insurance customers. We are clear about competition, I would like to say this because we are sure that competition for innovation, for product improvement and for quality improvement ................................................................................................................................................................ Competition, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, however, clear rules are needed, and such clear rules are not recognizable in this context. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e15482	I announce that the request of the honourable Member has just been presented in his key points. Johann Moser, colleagues and colleagues were brought in and presented in writing as well as sufficient support. So he's negotiating. In view of the extent of the application, I leave it in accordance with § 53 para. Copy and distribute 4 of the Rules of Procedure. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e15758	Next, Mr. Dr. Mitterlehner is speaking. Its voluntary time limit is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e15777	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the only one who has really been unsure here was my previous speaker, who has obviously been impressed by an industry, by what was said to him. [[Abg. Sburny: No!]] In fact, it simply does not agree with the facts that you have claimed here. Why? . If you have described it here in such a way that, essentially, when it comes to the amendments, the Insurance Communications Directive should be implemented, then that is true. However, they must predict that the sectors that are regulated and regulated here have already existed before. We have insurance agents in Austria, who are just working for insurance and are bound by insurance and who are also employed as multiple agents – this has been permitted by law – and on the other hand we have the insurance brokers who are working for the customer, and this was regulated by law. The fact that there have always been conflicts between these two sectors, in particular with regard to the activity of the multiple agent, is correct. However, in the Insurance Communication Directive, the EU has had absolutely no understanding of what we have in Austria for industry problems, but the directive is based solely on the consumer perspective. It is therefore not right, Mr Moser, to say that implementation is now planned to bring together both sectors. On the contrary! From a consumer point of view, significant improvements are being made. Each insurance agent must be registered in a register. Furthermore, he has to declare himself – which has not been planned so far, and what is new – during the consultation. – You mentioned this, but in the final effect the declaration is not so significant again. - So he has to declare himself. The second is – or the third – in this context: He also has a corresponding liability. When the agent who represents several products appears to be brokers, he is also liable as a broker – also for omissions. What's more, With an amendment to the Committee, we have still ensured that the agent may not at the same time perform the one and the other function – so he must not act as a broker, and vice versa. However, it would be a domestic discrimination if we were to forbid anyone to have both commercial rights. This was clearly expressed in a request from the European Commission. There is another improvement: If information obligations are violated, there is a possibility of withdrawal by the consumer for 14 days. This is also new, and specifically concerns the activity of the agent. Now I have to tell you something because some gentlemen from the industry are sitting on top of the gallery: They have obtained studies and opinions from Prof. Mayer and others about expensive money. From these studies, you will conclude that the Directive prohibits the activities of the multiple agent. That is not the case! It would only be prohibited if the legislator provided for relief in training and registration. That is exactly what the legislator does not do. It sets out information requirements, which are very detailed, and sees explicit confirmation in the EU Directive for this. Why? – Because the multiple agent activity is even precisely regulated here, and it is literally here that the customer is to be informed by the insurance intermediary whether he has agency contracts and can nevertheless choose between several insurers in individual segments, because he is not obliged to be exclusive by the contracts. – That is to say, the multiple agent with competing products is explicitly provided for in the directive! And that's why: If we were to exclude this, but if foreigners were not to be excluded, we would discriminate against nationals. I also have to say something about the amendment: If you do not fall for misinformation or incorrect information – I do not want to accuse anyone – because if you leave the SPÖ without commenting – at least if that is the one I have read before – in which paragraph 8 states that the “insurance agent” is the “insurance agent” of the “insurance agent” then you have been mistaken in the division somewhere. It can't be close to the citizen. This may be SPÖ-near, the federal comrade, but not necessarily close to customers. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann: Is still inside, yes!]] – So it's inside, the federal comrade is inside. So take over so uncommented. It's one or the other. Maybe you should have looked at that more precisely, and maybe you should have written it differently. In this context, I should like to say: The legislator didn't make it easy. He has really created a clean solution from the customer's point of view. I would like to thank all the sectors concerned, which have made an explicit and intense effort here, but above all thank all the workers in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, who have also been supporting the Committee. I mean, it's a really real implementation that's available here.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e15828	The next speaker was Mrs Sburny. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e15847	It was 6 minutes, I think. Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, on this directive on the provision of insurance. Mr Mitterlehner! If you say that this is so clear whose interests are represented, I can only say: Yeah, sure, you represent one thing, and other people represent a different interest. With this we live in this house, that is, I think, quite normal, and I would not say that this is as clear as you claim it to be. In his opinion, Professor Mayer writes: ‘It is clear from this definition that a contractually binding insurance representative can only operate on behalf and on behalf of several insurance undertakings if the insurance products are not competitive with each other.’ — Quotes. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: There you have to read the other too!]] It's quite clear they're already doing that. So I must honestly say that we in the Group were not quite sure how to judge this. On the one hand, it is clear that the European Union or the EP is providing a directive which is obviously intended to prevent distortion of competition. On the other hand, we see that there are problems for consumers to distinguish who they are talking to. If you say now that it is an improvement that you hold in your amendment that someone cannot act at the same time as brokers and intermediaries at the same time, then I can only say: It is not really a help for the consumer or the consumer if, the next day, the same broker is a mediator at once. What hat I am standing there with is often really difficult for consumers to distinguish, and whether an information obligation has been violated is usually only determined if you already have a certain scepticism, and that is not the case with all consumers. In this sense, I would also like to point out to Mr Moser that there is a need for a clearer separation between intermediaries and brokers. We will look at the amendment proposal – we only got it now – and then decide whether we can agree, but in principle I have the greatest scepticism. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann: No, you've had that for a long time! That's the one you already have!]] Another point that is affected by this change in the law is the right of establishment. There is something that is massively disturbing to us, although it would actually be a positive point in this change, namely that energy should be used efficiently in the construction of a plant. The whole thing has only a small beauty mistake, namely that we cannot decide on this energy efficiency offer. This has already been abolished by the Constitutional Court because the Federal legislator does not have this competence. If you do not put this into the constitutional order, which we have proposed two or three years ago, then this energy efficiency offer will be abolished by the end of the year, because there is this ruling of the Constitutional Court. The fact is, then, that this energy efficiency bid died at the end of the year if there is not yet a constitutional law. I am quite surprised at this, too, because, last but not least, my colleague, called for this directive to be lifted into the constitutional order of energy efficiency in 1999. However, nothing has obviously happened. Finally, press around to actually commit the plant operators to this energy efficiency offer. These are good words that are now in the trade order, but they will have no effect. On the other hand, I would like to mention two points which are important to us. A positive point is that in the last version, the possibility was created to issue noise protection requirements in host gardens. We think it is right that there is the possibility of granting these conditions, because there are problems in this area again and again and again and one has to judge this from individual to individual case to case. That this was forbidden so far, we have actually thought a gap. We have been demanding this for a long time and are glad that this point has been changed in this way. In our view, what is not favourable is the abolition of the ban on the marketing of consumer products. We consider this to be quite a problem from the point of view of consumer policy, because, in the transit trade, a lot of unannounced and very dubious food supplements are offered and by removing this ban, the minimum level of protection which has been guaranteed to consumers. As a last point, perhaps again on insurance. First, I forgot to mention a statement by the FMA, which also gave us some thought. When amending this Insurance Communications Directive, it is stated that credit institutions can also offer these insurances in the future, which we in principle consider to be correct. However, financial market supervision has found that it will need additional staff if it is to control it effectively. It has happened a few times recently, that laws have been passed, which are then being implemented because the necessary control mechanisms do not work. We would therefore also encourage that these additional personnel requirements for financial market supervision are actually ensured. All in all, there are therefore several problems with this change of law, and we will therefore not be able to agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e15897	Next, Mr Dipl.-Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e15917	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At least on the basis for today's change in the trade regulations, I think we agree in this House. This is an EU directive. In principle, provisions on insurance intermediaries apply to all legal entities engaged in the activities of insurance mediation. As has already been said, there are two different forms of activity, namely the activity of the mediation of insurance contracts within the meaning of the Insurance Contract Act – the Insurance Agent – or the activity of the broker, the insurance broker within the meaning of the Realtor Act. I think it is important to point out that very much attention has been paid to the fact that transparency is being achieved so that what has just been addressed by Mrs Sburny does not happen. – Mrs Sburny! You say today someone acts as an agent and tomorrow as a broker. - That's not supposed to happen. [[Abg. Sburny: But this is what is now possible! With your amendment!]] – No, this is not possible because it is not possible to switch from agent to broker in case of a business case. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: But the next day!]] There is a need to point out. I'm basically acting as a broker or an agent. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Per business case!]] - Per business case. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] - No, I don't. As far as domestic discrimination is concerned, it is so, as Mr Mitterlehner mentioned, that it would be a domestic discrimination if it were not possible to be brokers and agents at the same time. It should also be noted that there is a register in which the insurance intermediaries are registered and available. This means that every customer can inform himself about it on the website of the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour. What surprises me is the fact that you did not address the fact that a special liability status of the mediation was removed from the government template, and it was not removed so that there was no longer any liability status, but because there are legal provisions arising from register provisions. So the reason why this was taken out is that the protection is given anyway. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I think that something has been done to increase transparency. There is, of course, an obligation to issue evidence on all the documents of the agent. He's got to say that on all the papers. That abuse can take place, as with other things, is clear, but of course it can also be followed accordingly. I would also like to point out that this amendment tabled by Mr Mitterlehner and me in committee has previously agreed with the professional representations, i.e. with the agents, with the agents and also with the insurance companies. [[Abg. Sburny: But not with the consumers!]] In this respect, it is not quite understandable that, once again, by individual sides, especially by the brokers, it is not taken into account here and that. I think that this must also be addressed within a professional representation and the representation should also work accordingly. [[Abg. Sburny: We're talking about the consumers!]] I would also like to point out that there is now also a possibility for life and social advisers to provide sport-scientific advice, in the case of sports scientists and qualified sports trainers. Why did this happen? – To make the way to independence easier. Finally, I also point out that another module is to be completed in the qualification certificate, i.e. in the master's examination, namely a module for apprenticeship training with an apprenticeship training examination. We see a special meaning in issuing the overall certificate of qualification when an apprenticeship examination has been carried out and the proof of this has been given. We think that this certainly has a positive impact on apprenticeship training, as it is forced. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e16019	Mr Matznetter spoke on an actual correction. – Mr President, you know the provisions: firstly, the facts to be corrected and then the corrected, and all of this in 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e16040	Madam President. Federal Minister! In his speech, the honourable Member, Mr Mitterlehner, said that the new regulation does not make use of the authorisation of the directive to replace a certificate of training by confirming the insurance undertaking. He looks over in the government template § 137b Abs. 3, in which the last half-rate is – I give it shortened without the insertions: “... the professional fitness... can be done by a confirmation of the insurance undertaking....” – Exactly then it is used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e16064	Mr Bartenstein is speaking on behalf of the Federal Minister. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e16083	Madam President. High house! Let me say at the outset that the implementation of the Insurance Mediation Directive, as well as the other EU Directives, such as those probably in two to three years' time, of the Services Directive, is aimed, among other things, at creating a single market in services in Europe. This objective is, of course, subject to the wish of ours and others to improve the quality and price of services for consumers. The primary objective of this Insurance Communications Directive and others is to better serve consumers – in Austria and elsewhere in Europe. It is a question of one of these issues, which concerns demarcations between professional groups: Insurance agents, insurance brokers. Some of these professional groups are prominently represented here in the House today. In the end, however, it is also about bringing together interests not only of these two groups, but also of banks and insurance companies. My house, my staff, Secretary-General Mitterlehner, but also honourable Members Hofmann have, according to my strength, tried to make accords with me. Although I agree, there was at no time the formal, written consensus of all the parties involved: But we've come very close. If you haven't reached the consensus 100 percent, but – I say – it's 90 to 95 percent, it's just that you're politically required to implement it that way. What is available to you is essentially this very wide-ranging approach to the different groups. In technical terms, Members of the Mitterlehner and also Members of the Hofmann have presented this already shiny. I'll tell you: Even if the Constitutional Court in Austria had not already decided that domestic discrimination is not constitutionally excluded, I would not want to represent such a political one before you, the House. But it's, as I said, double-folded. The Constitutional Court has ruled out this by its rules, I and we do not want it politically. There should be no domestic discrimination through the implementation of EU legislation, and this is precisely the question of the abolition of the double exercise ban. We are in favour of this because we do not want and must not have domestic discrimination. In the case of multiple agents, however, of course, we are harmonising the broker – an approximation, no equality – with the obligation of professional liability insurance and also with the obligation to choose the best, ladies and gentlemen Sburny, in the interests of consumers. So let me conclude by saying: We have tried, as far as possible, to balance the interests, to bring to a denominator that is more than just the smallest common denominator. We have more than just taken into account the interests of consumer protection. Although we have made the trade of insurance agents and the industry of insurance brokers the trade of insurance intermediaries, we have reduced the number of trades in the trade order from 82 to 81, yet we have built up the corresponding safeguards that have already been discussed, for example, in order to clarify to the consumer who he is talking to – with the agent or with the broker. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Thus we have practiced in the art of the possible. I think it has become a good work. Have a long time – hand to heart! – I and others said: Let us wait for the implementation of the Insurance Mediation Directive, which will help us to solve the problems of demarcation between brokers and agents. – It has helped to solve this – not to the 100% satisfaction and satisfaction of those involved, but, I think, at least to the great satisfaction. We have reached this point. I would like to thank you once again for the extremely comprehensive preparatory work in my house. They were much more comprehensive than that of the scribe.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e16153	The next item is the speech by Mr Marizzi. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e16173	Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps this law and the whole subject in the industry are not sufficiently discussed. That's where I keep it with my colleague Sburny, who thinks the truth may be in the middle. The liability has not yet been clarified. In this context, I mention only the example of Germany: There you move it until the summer of 2005, because there are certainly some problems left open. The second argument is that the Czech Republic and Hungary simply prohibit these multiple agents. The key issue was discussed in detail. I believe that under the guise of liberalisation everyone – let us say it very short – can sell unverified insurances. I am also of the opinion of the colleague that the ‘hut’ someone is currently wearing is not clearly defined: Is he real estate agent now, is he an agent, and at what time does this happen? Of course, it will always be so that you say on the government side, that's enough discussion. But I've been watching the brokers at the visitor gallery when you spoke. They did not think that this was adequately discussed. Who really wants these quality changes, ladies and gentlemen? – Of course, some banks and some structural operations. This is a big market in the future. The supply market is one of the most growing markets in the precautionary business, and the banks – Mr Minister – you know that very well! – already hold about 50 percent of this product as a side-by-side business. Therefore, perhaps some of these people are interested in the fact that there are market shifts here and that the competition is eliminated. I do not want to quote right now, because that has already been done in detail, but the opinions of Professor Heinz Mayer, Gottfried Maier, Professor Christian Caliess and Professor Funk are obvious, and I can imagine that this law is perhaps – we do not know – unconstitutional, sometimes cancelled and, in the meantime, there is an uncertainty of consumers. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e16214	Mr Dipl.-Ing. May. Controller. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e16232	Thank you very much, Madam President. High house! As has already been said, the proposal also contains a number of provisions relating, in particular, to plant plant law, and I would like to highlight the most important ones here. I think they are so important that the whole House should then vote in favour of the proposal. First: The definition of the state of the art is specified. This is so important, therefore, that we are now harmonizing with the definitions in the Water Law and the Waste Management Act, so that we now have a uniform definition of this important concept. Secondly, The emission limit values for pollutants must in future take into account the technical nature of the plant, its geographical location and the respective local environmental conditions. This also takes into account the infringement procedure accordingly. Thirdly, the EU Commission has accused Austria of failing to implement the Seveso 2 Directive accordingly. Now, by inserting two new paragraphs and a number of amendments, this Seveso 2 Directive will be implemented in a correct and correct manner. For example, the commercial authority will also participate in the consultations required by Seveso 2 between the authorities concerned. Fourth: It will now be possible, in accordance with the Fees Act, to pay the fixed fees in a variety of ways, i.e. not only by cash payment or deposit, but also by credit card or credit card or other electronic payment methods. Fifth – a very interesting legal point –: The head of state can now, in general, appeal to the Administrative Court against decisions of the UVS in the proceedings under the Commercial Code for illegality. Until then, it was only possible to do so if it was to remove a criminal knowledge of the district administration authority. Sixteenths: We passed the cable car law last year. So far, the tow lifts have been regulated in the commercial regulations, but there is still a whole series of adjustments and adaptations to the cable car law. A seventh point, which is particularly important to me: In the beginning, the training examination is no longer the only way, the only way to train apprentices. We want to train as many businesses as possible, and that is why it is now considered to be an alternative to the completion of a training course or an equal training course. One last point I would like to mention – here I am with Mrs Sburny: We must abolish the ban on food supplements, taking into account the jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice. I personally am also a little skeptical, but unfortunately there is nothing else left here. In this sense, I would ask the House to approve this truly comprehensive innovation.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e16287	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e16306	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Unknown: Lords of the insurance industry! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Realtor!]] Mr. Realtor! [[Abg. May. Kogler: This is important!]] That's important. – It’s interesting already: If Mr Mitterlehner has been listened to by Mr Mitterlehner – unfortunately he is no longer among us; now here in the house, I mean, here in the house among us ; please, that is not to be joked – if one has listened attentively to him, it was really interesting to hear what he meant, in the amendment tabled by the Social Democrats, the term “Bundesgenosse” is inside, and you have all smiled. [[Rejoicing with the SPÖ and the Greens]] Why, ladies and gentlemen? The term ‘Bundesgenosse’ is a term that appears in the Realtor's Act. Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, we should immediately change the broker's law, because "genosse" must not stand in there. [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It has also been interesting for Mr Mitterlehner to point out that, and Mr. Makler has said so much more or less, that they would have had any advantages here through Mr. Mayer's opinion on sintering. [[The speaker looks towards the gallery]] Yes, is it no longer possible for my honourable ladies and gentlemen of the Government to have their opinions prepared? And do you know how expensive they are? [[Abg. Sburny: The government has a problem with that!]] You will probably know, because you will know the amount of money that our Minister of Finance has received for his tax exemption. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is in any case the fact that there is a legislative amendment to adapt the directive to which those concerned have hardly or at all been heard, although one could have tried very well to do so. It was just not done here. At least this is a market of €15 billion per year – rising; we are thinking of the entire pension and pension insurance – that is, money from citizens, who now simply release people who have no qualifications for it. Who, then, is speaking of what qualifications these people, these insurance intermediaries, should actually have? So this point was not taken into account at all. Consumer protection has already been discussed in this debate. I imagine that so plastic: I'm going to a bank, let's get some serious advice there on how banks are equipped, and then I'm recommended that I consider this pension insurance as well. Yeah, what hat does my advisor have on now? Is he an agent now, or is he a broker? He'll change the hat then, or you really believe he'll say: Well, that's our product, but I'd rather recommend that of the competition!Unknown term type: "%s".? For consumers, therefore, nothing has been improved at all here, ladies and gentlemen, and we therefore believe that this legislative proposal should be rejected.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e16393	The next item is Mrs Rossmann's speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e16411	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! I understand that you, of course, also make this directive, which we have implemented, worse from the point of view of the consumer. But I can tell you, we have been very careful about the matter, and it was important to us three things. First of all, that the standing representation is half agreed. I'm saying half way. As the Federal Minister has already said, there can be no one hundred percent agreement, but half an agreement has been reached, which has been communicated to us. However, it was also important for us to consider consumer protection beyond the directive. That is why I am very glad that, in addition to the directive, Federal Minister of State and Head of State Ursula Haubnerich also brought in four additional points: The advisory fee may only be required if this was agreed in detail. The insurance shall be liable for damages caused by an unauthorised intermediary. Liability remains – that is very important – as long as it has not been informed about the real status of the intermediary, the broker. In addition, there is a fourteen-day withdrawal, and the information obligations – which is a broker, which is an agent – are detailed. I think there is transparency, and I add: We have to take it from here always to act as if consumers did not know what they were doing. We have – thank God! – encouraging consumers in Austria, ranging from health to nutrition to this activity, where the consumer is very likely to make the choice and to question everything. It is also important that commercial practice is only possible if liability insurance is carried out. I believe that this is guaranteed, and that is why we are satisfied with the directive on how it is on the table. One point I would like to address very briefly. The training exam has now been integrated into the Master's exam. This is a great step, but I would like to have a suggestion, Mr Federal Minister, and perhaps this could be examined: I believe that, in general, one can also integrate an apprenticeship examination into the Matura or the curriculum in all higher schools, where one also acquires commercial qualifications with Matura. This would also be in the sense that young people are not created additional ways and built up additional life, but with the matura they could automatically prove the training exam; of course, with a corresponding number of lessons. This could, I think, be integrated into vocational education, because commercial rights are acquired in many areas. That would be an incentive. Perhaps it is even more an incentive for young people to become self-employed – as well as more quickly into self-employment. In this sense, I believe that the whole package of amendments to the trade regulations here is very, very useful, and we are glad that these long debates between brokers and agents are likely to end provisionally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e16475	The next item is the speech by Mr Christ. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e16494	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! If the citizens are not convinced, they should be confused and overwhelmed. This is the already well-known strategy of this Federal Government. Once again, a law is passed that, as many – they have already been quoted today – recognized experts think, has the best chance of being tipped into the constitution. – An almost daily follow-up to the laws of this federal government. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Neither the consumer protection nor the insurance association, nor asset advisors, nor brokers, nor specialists of the Chamber of Labour, with whom I have also spoken today or telephoned, are satisfied with this draft. He was never really chordd with the industry. Why is that so? – It is suspected that the main beneficiaries are again part of the Black and Blue Federal Government’s core clientele, considering the branches and networkings of the supporters with the government team, and, as always, the interests of consumers and entrepreneurs are less taken into account. Also, the amendment that is intended to oblige insurance intermediaries to clarify this distinction clearly when consulting, does not protect consumers as comprehensively as we would wish and as they do, above all. There must be a clear, legally comprehensible differentiation here, a clear different field of activity so that independence is 100% guaranteed and recognizable to consumers. A Gallup survey states that 82 percent of Austrians want a clear declaration between brokers and agents and that 91 percent of Austrians want independent advice. This draft does not take account of these wishes. It is already bad enough for citizens to be pushed into private pension and health care through the federal government's uncertainty policy. We have additional confusion to prevent. Scientific opinions from the most recognised experts also demonstrate these legitimate concerns. This draft is most likely unconstitutional and EU-constitutional in the form presented. The consequence of the law clearly preprogrammed once again: Until constitutionally tipped, valuable time is lost, and during this time consumers may be advised incorrectly or inadequately, which may have an adverse effect, especially in the worst case, only in the case of liability claims. The SPÖ is not to have for the continued consumer deception and therefore rejects this presentation in its current form in the same way as many experts, in good society. However, the amendment tabled by us would be a good opportunity to address all our concerns, and I therefore urge you to agree to this request in the interests of consumers and entrepreneurs. – Thank you
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e16539	The next item is Mrs Felzmann's speech. Also 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e16557	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that Mr Krist is “witnessed” has been left blank. I think he's been mixing a few things here. The fact is that this very comprehensive federal law, which also amends the trade regulations, the broker law, the insurance contract law, the insurance supervision law and also the banking law, goes back to EU directives, knowing that we as a country need to adapt and orient ourselves to it. [[Abg. Sburny: Orientation, but not 1 : 1 take over!]] I am convinced that the change is consumer protection, consumer protection, especially as regards the directive on insurance mediation. Why? – On the one hand, the brokers must now also show themselves. The brokers must take out liability insurance prior to the business case. There is greater transparency in insurance business, and the extensive training will surely increase the quality of insurance placement activities. However, this Directive covers far more than the Realtor's and Insurance Act. It is – you know – about the trade regulations, which can also be seen as part of consumer protection. I am personally surprised that the Greens did not go along either because, among other things, the Waste Management Act is also being addressed, with very incisive measures to protect the environment. For us, it was not really comprehensible that you could not take along with the whole wealth, where you might have one, two things different access. As far as the trade regulations are concerned, it is important to specify and clarify individual provisions. This is also in the sense of our consumers and also in the sense of businesses that an absolute clarity is created here. There's an extensive law in front of us. It may not have been created in the sense of all. However, I am convinced that it is an overall improvement.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e16594	The next speaker is Mr Steindl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e16612	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Kristi designed a scenario that has nothing to do with reality. Today it is already the case that insurance agents and brokers compete in parallel with the market, and this has worked well for many years. As the Federal Minister has already said, under the EU Directive, only a compromise variant was possible. This is available today, and I think it has overall become a good compromise. Everything has already been done on this issue today. I would therefore just like to briefly outline the cornerstones. In the future, the activities of insurance intermediaries are carried out by brokers, agents, asset consultants, credit institutions and entrepreneurs with the related by-products. In order to ensure liability for consumers, a reporting obligation of the liable entrepreneur is now introduced and an insurance intermediary register is created for this purpose, i.e. a special consumer protection in this case. If one banned a binding agent – I am now returning to this EU directive – so if an agent offered competing insurance products, there would be discrimination against Austrians against EU citizens, since the EU Directive does not provide for such a distinction. In order to further improve consumer protection, the insurance intermediary must inform consumers in a consultation discussion whether he is an insurance agent or an insurance broker in the specific case. The implementation of the EU Directive should not be misused for inter-branch fights. Instead, brokers and agents should continue to focus on their previously defined technical priorities, as ultimately only the competent and professionally oriented entrepreneur will be economically successful.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e16658	Mr Ledolter is next spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e16676	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! I believe that this today's debate on the revision of the trade regulation in 1994 is once again a good example to show how necessary and good approaches and regulations are being misrepresented by the opposition, as one tries to use the practically demanded protection of the consumer to shatter the economy and to narrow it down in its scope, and how the truth is masked with statements, such as Mr Christ, as she has, for example, brought about, as regards overlapping and giving advantage. [[Abg. Sburny: Again and again it is...! It's really a cleaner!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I do not believe that the Austrians like to find themselves in the role they think of the SPÖ, because if someone goes shopping in a “spar” market, he knows very well that he is presented there with the trademarks of the “Spar” organization, and if he goes into the “Billa” market, it is similar. [[Call the SPÖ: They don't know!]] The analogies to the own products of banks and insurance companies have not been brought up that far. And I don't think that people in this country have to be constantly detonated, just to be able to oppose it under legal regulations. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! If this is the fundamental trend of your policy, you say it. [[Abg. Sburny: A simple world in which...!]] And you do, too, but then people should know what they are about and how they have been lifted up with you. In reality, the insurance mediation scheme has been set up with a lot of consumer-friendly measures: the insurance register, with the liability requirement, with the certificate of competence required by those engaged in advisory and mediation activities within the framework of banks and insurance companies. In this context, I would also like to make a point on Mrs Sburny. Financial market supervision shall examine the evidence of competence of those who carry out insurance mediation activities with these institutions. However, since these institutions are anyway examined by the FMA, I cannot imagine that the additional staff needs will be that great. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, in the consultation... – Yes, my God, there is a lot of what is depicted on paper. [[Abg. Sburny: If you had read the comments, you would know what the FMA says!]] You and I know paper is patient. [[Abg. Sburny: You're right! The whole budget speech this morning – paper is patient, that's right!]] The fact is, we need solutions, and that is not only in the area where, among other things, the consultation is planned, but also in the area of the form of disposal, the ban on the dispatch of consumer products. Also, ladies and gentlemen, we are adapting to an EU directive which has become urgently necessary and which, as a result of which a number of provisions are installed to protect consumers, a fact which derives from the need for the EU to give us very clear conditions and requirements here, and also in the field of plant law. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: The EU is to blame! Always this EU!]] In total, ladies and gentlemen, this is a really great work of the Ministry under the direction of the Minister for Economic Affairs Martin Bartenstein. – Thank you for that and so on!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e16786	Next, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Missethon's word. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e16811	Madam President. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to interfere in the debate on agents and brokers, but rather try to speak from the point of view of the consumer, because I believe that it is becoming increasingly difficult for consumers to really choose the right thing for themselves from the diverse insurance products – and there are new ones almost daily. [[Call the SPÖ: Have failed anyway!]] To the estimated representatives of the brokers: The advisory aspect will become more important and more important in the future. That's my personal conviction. I also believe that the distinction between brokers and agents is important for the consumer so that he knows: Who's my counterpart at this table? Is it one that represents my interests? Realtor? Or is it one that almost represents the interests of insurance undertakings as well? Then it's the agent. It is important to clarify this distinction in any form. That was also my critical comment in the Committee, and I thank you for at least on the question: Who will sit in front of me at the consultation meeting?, now a clarification has been made. As a speaker of the People's Party, I welcome the significant improvements for the consumer. This begins with information obligations and goes to withdrawals. So for consumers, regarding consumer rights, it is certainly an improvement compared to the previous state. Dear ladies and gentlemen! It has already been mentioned several times today that the insurance industry is a hugely growing industry. We should also observe in the next few years how this market is developing, how the participants in this market in particular are developing. I believe that – and this is an incentive – it will also be necessary to check at certain intervals how far these laws will actually be implemented. Finally, one final message to the representatives of the brokers. Dear ladies and gentlemen! My conviction is: If you work with your customers with the same intensity that you've been working with in recent weeks, I'm not worried about the broker's status. – A cordial happiness!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e16844	Mrs Mikesch is speaking on behalf of the last provisional speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e16870	Estimated President! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We have heard a lot about the Insurance Mediator Directive today, but another very important point is also to find a milestone for sports, a small paragraph in the law, but a big step for graduates and students of sports studies as well as for our diploma trainers. We are at European level at the level of qualification. This has only recently found a comparative analysis of the University of Lyon for the European Commission. This appreciation in the world of sports has so far been quite modest in terms of professional qualifications. For historical reasons, training and competition preparation were subject to the term “private education”. Long-term best-trained academics or diploma trainers had to be limited to showing, showing, explaining and explaining. The way to independence was forbidden. Individual advice and care, performance diagnosis, body function analysis, development of customized design plans, sports science and psychological tests have not been allowed. Although the term “coaching” comes from sports, in Austria, only sports doctors, psychologists, psychotherapists, life and social advisers as well as business consultants have been entitled to do so. The expansion of the regulated trade in living and social advice, as decided today, is starting with the health-enhancing effect of sporting activities in all age groups. Our initiative in the Economic Committee to enable the creation of a company in the field of sport scientific advice is a ceremony for sport, a fantastic message in the European Year of Education through Sport. It is a shame that you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, cannot agree! However, cheers may also be used by hotel and fitness establishments that have previously worked in a grey zone if they specifically used sports scientists to train for reconstruction, to reduce overweight or to reduce blood pressure by jogging. The Austrian Chamber of Commerce expects a wave of founders in the coming years. The media also support this initiative. For example, recently the well-known publisher Alfred Payseartner called for this in a “Kurier” comment. As a former sportswoman, it is therefore my personal concern to thank those who have now made a breakthrough of the long-standing demand of the Sports Union and our sports spokesman Peter Haubner. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I am particularly grateful to the employees in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Education and the Austrian Chamber of Commerce. Our decision today is the necessary prerequisites on the basis of academic qualifications. For more than 10,000 graduates of universities and sports academies, this is a great opportunity. Employment in sport in the EU has increased by 10 percent per year since 1990. The health sector is regarded as a growing market, a market in which women in particular find new, exciting career prospects. In this sense, as an entrepreneur, I look forward to numerous advocacy and an additional founder's boom.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e16930	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft law in 629 of the supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Mr Moser, ladies and gentlemen, tabled a supplementary or amendment which was distributed to Members. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposal and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on, together with the title and receipt. Deputies Mag. Johann Moser, colleagues and colleagues have tabled an amendment or amendment which refers to Article 1 and Article 2. I'm looking for the Ladies and gentlemen, who have given their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is not the majority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I should like to ask the honourable Members if they will be able to do so. – This is accepted by a majority. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: This is the right step in the wrong direction!]] Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 9. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (622 D.B._Other Organiser Agreement in accordance with Art. 15a B-VG on the remuneration of hospital medical services of public hospitals for residents of judicial institutions (634 d.e.c.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e16975	We're now on the 9th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I therefore open the debate. First of all, Mr Miedl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e17005	Madam President. Ms. Minister of Justice! Minister for Economic Affairs! Ladies and gentlemen! It is a matter that, I think, will hopefully be able to achieve consensus. Austria has about 25,000 prisoners, who live annually in the various prisons and police prisons as judicial, administrative or penitentiary prisoners. Ladies and gentlemen! These are prisoners with all the problems of a person suffering from the withdrawal of the family from the social environment and the withdrawal of the workplace. The question of meaning is nowhere as distinct as that of the people in prisons. Many of them also find faith during this time. Every society that holds something on its own has a human punishment, a human punishment that allows for reintegration and, by far, guarantees reintegration. The real objective of those measures arranged by the court is, of course, to achieve the improvement of the human being's propitiation and finally to enable his reintegration. One of my convictions about the important issue in the execution of the sentence is the health of the people who live in it. And there, I think, it's good if we distinguish what health we mean. I think there are very professional and very clever health prophylaxis in the detention centre. This is ensured by the diet – there is a balanced, healthy diet in these institutions – through the appropriate hygiene regulations, but there are also sports and exercise taking place. It is imparted knowledge, and there are also appropriate leisure opportunities. I understand all of this as health prophylaxis. The second area from my point of view is health recovery, i.e. the sick person in these detention centres. In addition to the normal diseases in which there is quite a professional care, the problem of infectious diseases in prisons is more common, especially hepatitis C, HIV and, last but not least, tuberculosis. It is all to do to prevent infection – including the staff and the officials working there, but, of course, also the members of the staff. Finally, the problem of mental diseases in the detention centres cannot be underestimated, i.e. the question of depression and the associated risk of suicide as well as the addiction diseases. Especially in recent times, there has been a very strong increase. Treatment of addicts in prisons is becoming increasingly difficult. In particular, alcohol and drug addiction as well as the many substitution patients in the detention centres are meant. Ladies and gentlemen! What it's all about now is that the costs rise exorbitantly and the prisoners are not insured. An agreement has been reached here with the countries – that is the current act – according to which approximately € 8.5 million are planned for 2003 and 2004. The Länder will apportion these costs in relation to the inhabitants. The problem is the different cost levels in different hospitals and the fact that those calculate daily rates at full rate as for uninsured private patients. The objective of future policy must therefore be to negotiate a single day rate and to introduce a social security including health insurance for prisoners. I am convinced that our new Minister of Justice will do this without a doubt. She's done a lot already. . I congratulate you for having made a good start, and I am very confident that the proposal will be approved unanimously today. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e17061	The next item is Mr Pendl's speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e17079	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Miedl, of course, is the subject of consensus, and we very much agree with this Article 15a agreement. But let me also make a few important comments on the situation in the Austrian Penalty. I have been following the reports in the media with great attention, but also the statement of the Federal Minister for Justice in the Committee on Justice, when she said that a master plan for the Austrian Penalty must be drawn up. – We would like to stress this, Mrs Minister! I think there is now the most difficult situation in the Austrian judicial institutions for decades. Ladies and gentlemen! We have about 8 750 inmates, about 5 500 of them prisoners, about 2 500 prisoners, and the rest are residents. I believe, and we have repeatedly pointed out in the Committee in several meetings, including your predecessor, that we need some action here. If we now look, in 2004, at the time when the criminal law and the enforcement of measures have been passed by law, it is clear that many framework conditions have changed and need to be redefined. At this point, I should also like to express our thanks to my colleagues at the Austrian judicial station and the entire staff involved in criminal proceedings, whom I particularly agree with. I believe – and insiders know – that they are currently doing superhuman things in their difficult task in order to maintain the system in the interests of the Republic and the Austrians. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Punishment is also an important area of internal security, and we must all be aware that it costs something, and it must also be worth something to us, both in terms of the expenditure on matters and in terms of the staff sector. We should, as I believe, have the courage to try to change the rules of action in the judicial committee and adapt the law of enforcement to today's circumstances. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! One of the areas where my previous speaker has already started is the question of health care. The area of enforcement. The costs explode from year to year. Without wanting to be cynical or polemic, I mean, you can already say when the day will come when the entire budget will be spent on the health sector. We must therefore accept this important and, indeed, central question. It's a delicate discussion, we know. We have had to fight this problem with ourselves for decades. There are numerous public hospitals that have no joy with our inmates. It's always a delicate question, because no one really wants a guard in a hospital. All of this costs a lot on the one hand, but on the other hand is unsatisfying. Mrs Minister, make your announcement of a Master Plan in this area true! We're sure we're with you when it comes to the matter. I think the people, especially the staff, are waiting for it, because it's overdue. We must come to the point that the execution of the sentence is also useful. It can't be that the judicial authorities are upset, yes, overcrowded. In fact, it is only possible to lock up without, as we would imagine, a care performance, as my previous speaker expressed it. It must also be possible to obtain meaningful employment in the institutions. People are employed, trained and trained. All of this is not possible at the moment. I ask you and invite all of you to go to this so important work in the interests of Austrian justice, in particular the execution of the penalty.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e17143	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Böhmdorfer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e17162	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister of Justice! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since for the first time I can welcome you here on the Government Bank, Mrs Rechtsminister, I would like to wish you every good thing for your very responsible task. I know you have a good team in the cabin and in the house, and I hope you will handle all your tasks well. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It is also gratifying that we can celebrate your commitment here with a consensus matter. However, I would also like to say something critical, but not to matter itself – it is very gratifying that this Article 15a agreement is concluded – but to the federalist background of this matter. What is it about? – If in Austria someone – and there are federal and national citizens opposite each other – is in prison, then he becomes a federal citizen from the country citizen. As a national citizen, he was probably insured and well cared for, and the countries had to stand up for him if something happened to him. As a federal citizen, he is suddenly in penitentiary, and when he is in penitentiary, he is not insured. This dates back to about the time Christian Brodas. Prisoners are not insured in Austrian penitentiaries. However, prisoners must also be cared for, and if they get sick, they must at all events come into stationary treatment. Where do they come from? - In the state hospitals. Since they are not insured, they have to pay like Russian and American billionaires, and this is paid by the Federation. – This senseless cycle is being inhibited in a sense today. He won't really end. In the future, apart from today's improved regulation, it will be a truly good one. It must be that the unbureaucratic and without these cycles between federalism and centralism is handled, simply, concretely and equally, because sick is sick. These people have to be treated, they have no way to go. The second is: There are hundreds of patients in the Austrian judicial institutions, the sick, the mentally ill who are not responsible for their actions. Please negotiate She continues, Minister of Justice, with the woman Minister of Health, who unfortunately is not here; she also does not have to be here, nor should she be here. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] She does not have the task of being here; so it was meant. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: This is a contribution to reality!]] But it should be the case that in the future patients will really be cared for by the Ministry of Health and not in detention facilities. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e17213	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Stoisits. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e17232	Poštovane lady i gospodo! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I also welcome you very much and would like to join the good wishes of Dr. Böhmdorfer very much. He actually spoke a true word! The ladies and gentlemen who work for you in the Ministry of Justice are truly of the highest quality, that is, their work is of the highest quality. [[Rejoicing]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Teresa, what do you know?]] I've been able to make sure of it many times. I definitely know that her work is very good, dear, Mr. Klubobmann. Among other things, this government is also a beneficiary of the high quality of the high level of civil service of the judicial unit. [[Abg. Scheibner: Ministers too!]] If we had to rely on government members alone, it would look a little sad. [[Abg. Neudeck: Unlike in the past, the officials now also work!]] This should not divert from the real issue, namely the execution of the sentence in Austria and, above all, from the shortcomings in the Austrian execution of the sentence. This 15a agreement is in a sense something like a minor remedy. I deliberately say “small flawshooting”, although I am pleased that it has come about, because it is really a more than unworthy spectacle, which always happens when it comes to who carries the treatment costs for sick prisoners in Austria’s judicial institutions. And they also get sick, among other things, because this system of execution also makes them sick. It should not be imagined that these people now use the Austrian health system, because it is paid jointly by the federal government and the countries, because they cannot, so to speak, outside, but quite the contrary. Many of these diseases, which are then faced with the department and judicial institutions, are the result of the situation in which people are located, among other things, certainly also very many of the mental diseases, but for which there are few of the most common means and assistance. I would like to express my pleasure at the fact that this temporary article 15a agreement has been reached: The Article 15a Treaty is therefore temporary, because so much is very short-term in Austrian law enforcement policy. The last major novel, which has been given here – I have already explained to Mrs Miklauch the history of the Committee – was that of 1993, a novel that was very significantly co-formed by the opposition, because it was, so to speak, based on a unique historical event: that a subcommittee had been working on this matter for a year on the basis of an oppositional proposal. The work of this subcommittee has resulted in a ministerial draft or a government template, and finally a law of enforcement which could really be seen at the time – more than ten years ago – to this decision-making process. In the meantime, however, a decade has passed, and the challenges to the execution of the sentence have changed and have grown in a number of respects, and, above all, the enforcement of penalties by means of the legal framework provided by the Criminal Enforcement Act in 1993 is certainly no longer in all respects in a timely manner. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] That is why it is more than time to deal with the question of a modern law of enforcement. Mrs Minister, I can't spare you the following today, and I thought that when Mr Böhmdorfer spoke here as now a Member of Parliament, he said that it was from the Broda period that this insurance was no longer available: What was before was certainly a much more backward penitentiary than that in the Broda era. This has sounded like a deterioration in the time of Mr Broda's Minister of Justice. – The opposite was the case! The fact is – that is the point – that if, now, criminal execution in Austria occurs in the media or in the social discussion, which always happens only because of abuses, because of incidents, because of deaths, so to speak, because of the suspicion that the law enforcement officers do not get to the brink of their work, while I do not want to create a single personal misconduct here, but – Otto Pendl has already pointed out – the situation as such. Now it is not as it was in the 1970s and 1980s, even in the early 1990s, that we have a positive reluctance because we have passed modern laws in Austria because we have modern and open access to things. Things have been completely wrong: Only more negative, just more alerts from all sides – both what occurs and alerts arrive from the staff representation and from the union on the lack of personnel – is what the discussion now determines. Mrs Miklauch, that's where you're really required! And because I trust women more in principle than men in terms of feasibility, I also rely more on you in this case, Mrs Miklauch, than on Minister Dr. Böhmdorfer, your predecessor.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e17307	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Brinek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e17325	Mr President. Mrs Minister, I also agree with the previous speakers on thank you and the congratulations for Your work together here with the High House. However, I would like to concentrate on a few comments on the item on the agenda, and I would like to ask you to consider what amount is involved: In total, 50 percent federal performance/50 percent national performance; this makes 17 million € for the status of fully paid individuals. I therefore endorse the suggestions and reminders of former Minister Böhmdorfer, who says that there must be a change. I am right in all measures and all the ways when it comes to insured status. What has made me particularly concerned with this matter is the area in which the already quoted increase has been recorded. In the comparative period 1989 to 2000, i.e. eleven years, the total cost increased by 250 percent. There have been massive cost increases in the external housing of mentally abnormal legalbreakers in public psychiatric hospitals, ranging from 28 million to 154 million schilling. An increase of 445 percent! An increase in costs by 445 percent also means: Increase cases by 445 percent. As a human being, as a politician, I already have to think why the number of incompetent and mentally abnormal legal breakers has so increased during this time. I have been thinking about the reasons and would like to say: On the one hand, how the health system is affected and, on the other hand, benefits from better diagnostic options, from better treatment options, we must say that better diagnosis leads to a more favourable health and treatment system. This is the case in the health system and also in the treatment of mentally abnormal, mentally incalculable legal breakers. I was a member of the Vienna Criminal Commission and visited these patients and must say: This is the most expensive form of day and night care. What this is about must come up with a possibility for us to intervene in the preventive area. It would be interesting, Mrs. F. Miklauch, to explore – including in addition to dissertations and available research material – how in this respect the situation in Europe looks at what form of prevention can be done. The question should also be asked: What does danger in our multi-optional society mean in a society that is increasingly concerned with social taboos? What does it mean to be tabloidly burdened at the threshold between the risk society and to be a high-quality case towards disease, with the danger of rushing into the criminal? Such an investigation, including the fact that we are working together in Europe, would be important to me. Thus, the cost question and the insured status are actually a subordinate question. A lot of work is ahead of us, and we look forward to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e17377	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Justice to approve the conclusion of the agreement in accordance with Article 15a of the Federal Constitutional Act in 622 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted. 10. Point Report of the Committee of Justice on the Government template (518 d.a._Other Organiser Treaty between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Poland on the addition of the European Convention on Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters of 20 June 1989 April 1959 and facilitation of its application (635 d.a.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (618 d.e._Other Organiser Federal Law on the Replacement of Damages for Criminal Arrest or Condemnation (Structural Reimbursement Act 2005 – StEG 2005) (636 p.a.) 12. Point Report by the Committee on Justice, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 65/A (E) by Mr Mag. Johann Maier, colleagues on the revision of the Criminal Compensation Act (StEG) (637 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e17440	We shall now proceed to items 10 to 12 of the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker was Mrs Fekter, with a three-minute voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e17464	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! We are now negotiating Agenda item 10, which is a treaty with Poland on legal aid. Hiemit will improve the legal assistance between the courts and prosecutors of both states, i.e. Austria and Poland, as well as simplify the delivery. Agenda item 11 concerns the Government's draft law on criminal compensation, and Agenda item 12 concerns an own-initiative request for a resolution by the SPÖ, including a criminal compensation law. And I'm going to comment on both of them now. The European Court of Human Rights has denied Austria regarding the current law, which dates back to 1969, on the principles of fair trial, namely fair proceedings, and infringement of the presumption of innocence. The European Court of Human Rights has stressed that in the event of an acquittal of the injured, that is, the person who then demands compensation, does not have to resist the suspicion that the grounds of suspicion do not need to be re-examined if an acquittal has already taken place. He further stated that there was a fair trial that there was a public court procedure, including a public decision-making announcement. That is why this government template now provides for a whole new system: In the future, the injured person may call directly on civil courts without having to make a positive decision by the criminal courts. The legal position of the injured person is thus improved: Unlike under old law, the injured person should no longer have behaved after a right-wing acquittal, in retrospect of the suspicion of crime committed against him. I believe that this is what we have done in accordance with human rights and in the interests of the injured. On the request of Maier, we must say: This will be rejected by my group because we consider the points that we see in this motion for a resolution to be implemented. It is true that the new law is now in place and that the aid is granted, Mr Maier. I can't afford to a compensation lawyer, but a victim aid is already available at the victim assistance facilities. EU level and harmonisation, I believe, are not crucially contained in the compensation law. You can definitely talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e17513	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e17531	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I got a letter today that I'd like to read to you: On December 4th, 2002, I was sentenced innocently to 15 years in prison, and I still have not wounded this condemnation. I still can't believe what happened to me. By this condemnation, I was stolen from life. I just don't have the strength to live anymore. I'd love it if my life had already ended. I have nothing against dying, on the contrary, death is my best friend. I'm hoping someone's gonna put me around the corner. It doesn't bother me if you kill me. I don't know what to do anymore. I hope I'll end my life soon. I'm not going to do this wrongful 15 years in prison, no one can expect it from me. Now I'm already so far, I'm looking for death so that I'm fighting with others so much, hoping they'll take my life. I can't, and I don't want to. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to be tempted to say here that this penitentiary, who wrote this letter to me, has actually been unjustly condemned. I'm not responsible for this, but the examination is to the competent court in a resumption procedure. However, we all know the problematic situation – in the example of Peter Heidegger – how difficult it is to go through a resumption process. And we should keep in mind one thing: Peter Heidegger is and was not an individual case. Perhaps the affected person whose letter I read is another case. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! I believe that what has happened or has not happened in Austria in recent years is unbearable to the rule of law and democracy. I think it unbearable that there is a case of Gert Lagler who has been fighting for his rehabilitation and compensation since 1982. I think it unbearable that Peter Löffler, who was acquitted legally and dubiously, is still fighting for his compensation. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We will not be able to solve the problems that I have identified by amending the criminal compensation law. We can achieve one thing: that at least those who are acquitted after properly ordered detention, or those against whom the proceedings are brought, or those who are acquitted in a resumption procedure, receive compensation and that there is no longer any distinction between a dubious and unquestioned acquittal. What we still have to solve in the rule of law, the High House, is the question of how people who are unjustly taken into U-port who are unjustly condemned will get their right within a reasonable time. One thing we should not overlook: This is about human existence. Gert Lagler lost his existence more or less. He worked as an economic trustee and had over ten years of professional ban. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We consider the rules now laid down in the Criminal Remuneration Act to be worthy of support. However, we will make an amendment to § 3 and § 4, but at third reading we will agree to the government proposal. Mr Jarolim will explain in detail why we will make an amendment to § 3 and § 4. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! With the criminal compensation law, we can achieve a human rights-compliant regime in Austria, but – and I say so quite openly here – the fight continues. This House should be on the side of the so-called victims of justice.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e17601	Mr Böhmdorfer is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e17620	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister of Justice! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr Maier, I am a little surprised at the fact that, with errors that can happen everywhere, in a situation where a real rule of law is passed, one is making a mood in this way. This is unfair to the whole of justice, which is unfair to all judges who try to make correct decisions on a daily basis. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: There are judicial errors!]] This is unfair to all experts. This is unfair to all prosecutors and even to society, because it is not supposed to give the impression that Austrian justice is making mistakes about mistakes. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: That's not what anyone says!]] That's not really the way it is at all. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We have an incredibly difficult situation to deal with here. The Austrian legislator has been trying to do this since 1918. In 1918, for the first time, such a criminal compensation law was passed, later in 1932 and in 1969. And today we're trying again. Let us not pretend, Mr Maier, that those who, unfortunately, are being arrested wrongfully, have no legal protection in Austria. In the event of fundamental rights violations, Article 5 of the ECHR shall take effect. Austria is extremely modern and offensive on this issue. Since 1960, the EMRK has been in the constitutional rank in Austria. There are not many countries that can claim this recognition for themselves. It receives any damages, including pain money, if fundamental rights have been violated in the event of its arrest. In addition, there is already the official liability law now. There, too, anyone who suffered an investigational arrest or other imprisonment due to a mistake of an organ or a judge is also replaced with pain money. Today, after a long discussion, we improve the legal situation in the area of criminal compensation: without cover, unbureaucratic, through civil courts and with pain money. I think we can be proud of this solution. I would like to thank Professor Dr. Kathrein, who has been responsible for this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e17678	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e17697	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. With regard to criminal compensation law, which I would like to deal with in brief terms now, the Committee on Justice and Home Affairs has put forward a very detailed discussion in order to ensure that this law will be adopted unanimously, which I believe indicates that the quality of work in the judicial committee is very high, because both government and opposition are concerned with the things that exist. “Take a look at it” – the emphasis lies more on the opposition than on the government, because the opposition raises more questions. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That was completely incomprehensible now!]] In principle, the previous speakers have already said that there is no objection to this legislative project, because it is above all an initiative of the opposition that has been there for years – in particular, Mr Maier, who was particularly active and who has covered the Federal Ministry of Justice with numerous parliamentary requests; but I can still remember that my colleague, Mr Anschober, who has not been in the National Council for a long time, has already dealt with the cases you have mentioned; and now in his successor Mrs Moser. [[in the direction of the Abg. May. Johann Maier]] That is why it is in principle the case that Austria has sought to reform fundamental rights and has now been implemented in a certain way. – That’s the first thing I think positive. The second – I do not hide that, I have already said in committee – is that now only civil courts are responsible. This is also a good sign. This does not necessarily have to be regarded as a vote of distrust against criminal courts, but it has a certain side effect in this direction. It is precisely because the Green Group now agrees to this law that I would like to address those points which I do not “don’t agree” – that would be a bit exaggerating, otherwise I would not agree – but in which it is essential to me that I have my doubts as to whether the path chosen in this law is indeed the only right way to solve the problem, namely the question of exclusion and the limitation of replacement claims. If it is actually true that someone has been illegally arrested or detained – that is, unlawfully, unjustly imprisoned – then it is quite logical if we are talking about a criminal compensation law that someone who has been illegally imprisoned has a right to compensation. This claim – because the detention was illegal, not covered by law – is then completely independent of whether it may be condemned in this procedure – whether it be a prison sentence or a fine. The investigation is about whether the arrest and detention were illegal. That might sound paradoxical in the first moment, but that's the point. If, now, I say it quite gently, the liability for the punishment is taken relatively easily, then in a sense – and I may now also say it a little legally imprecisely, but so, so that you understand it – human apples and pears are mixed, because the fact of a claim for compensation exists because of an illegal detention. Then, at the same time, they say: Now you have been “not justified” – under quotation marks – in prison, and you are then sentenced for a crime, because of the crime you were suspected of being charged at the time – and because you are being sentenced, so to speak, the penalty lifts up the claim for compensation you have for the illegal detention. A very clear separation of these two things is the commandment of the hour, because we are dealing here with the right to compensation in the event of unlawful imprisonment. § 3 of this law seems to me... I do not have the expert knowledge that the ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry of Justice have – whether Professor Dr. Kathrein or Mr. Mag. Pilnacek is now to name both criminal and civil-legislatives – but despite long discussions in the committee, my doubts could not be completely eliminated. This is important to me so that it is not possible for anyone to say, at some point in time, — if there is a procedure before the European Court of Human Rights and if Austria is condemned by any procedure or if this procedure is lost — that: Aha, even the opposition didn't point out. That is why it is important to me today to have pointed out that I am, so to speak, one – what is the opposite of hope? – Rest of the suspects that this could happen. Nevertheless: It's important that there is that. We'll have an eye on how it's done. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e17739	Mrs Bundesminister Mag has spoken from the government bank. Miklutsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e17758	Mr President. High house! First of all, I would like to thank you very much for the congratulations I have received from so many pages. - That's the first point. I have been very pleased about this and, of course, as Minister of Justice, I will do my best to meet your requirements. Next, I would like to make a brief statement on the subject of criminal compensation law. It is true that this criminal compensation In our opinion, of course, the law is already an essential step in the right direction, for several reasons: On the one hand, we have implemented this provision in accordance with human rights, on the other hand, we are now substantially facilitating the asserting of claims for an innocent detention. It will now be the case that, according to current practice, the appeal of the financial procuratorship will now be possible and, in future, an appeal by the civil court, and not, as previously provided, that the innocent convicted person will have to return to the criminal court. I already see substantial reliefs for the innocent condemned. . I see Mr Maier nodding what I would like to take note of. On the cases you have referred to, Mr Deputies: It is true – I think you know it as well as I do – that the case of Heidegger is not a case that has fallen under the criminal compensation law, but it is a case that has fallen under the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of law, which is a slightly different legal situation. To the cases of Lagler and Löffler mentioned by you: These two cases, of course, are also known to me. Payments have also been made in both cases. There's been a payment for one, and there's even a monthly pension. So these cases were very likely given a solution. I mean, I thought your statements were as if there had been no criminal compensation law before. There was one! And we have now improved this criminal compensation law. I am very pleased that, as I have taken this from the previous speeches, we will receive broad approval here too. - So far, so good. I will be very excited about the further debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e17809	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Controller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e17827	Mr President. High house! It is probably one of the most difficult situations in which you can come to life if you are unjustly imprisoned. I'm sure you're desperate about everything. That is why I am very glad that we are making substantial improvements in compensation today. It has already been said: The appeal of civil courts and the retribution of intellectual damage, i.e. some kind of pain, are positive, although it will certainly never be possible to really pay off an unwarranted detention. I would like to focus briefly on three points that have been criticised by the opposition in committee. This is first the exclusion and limitation of the replacement claim. However, I would like to point out that this is only possible insofar as the time of detention has been counted on the fine imposed – otherwise not. However, this also applies to a conditional penalty – if only a conditional penalty is imposed – or a fine where the equivalent is then counted in prison. The second point that has been criticized is that the court can mitigate or completely exclude the liability of the federal government. This is, however, only in certain cases. It is possible that the full replacement would be inappropriate for a number of reasons, for example if an injured woman withdraws her statement against her partner in order to save family peace, or if the detention is necessary to prevent the execution of these threats in the event of dangerous threats, so that the person concerned is held in custody. Otherwise, the State would also be obliged to replace it accordingly and would have to guarantee the official liability. It would also be possible to make false statements to cover another fellow believer who can flee in the meantime. I think that this will not happen too often, but it must be possible that this reduction of the right to compensation or exclusion is given. The third point was the question of replacement. It is based on the ABGB. It is simply that the replacement with regard in particular to intangible damage cannot be higher than the general right of compensation for damage. But new, and that's what I said at the beginning, is the replacement for the prison evil. It is – and that is, I believe, the decisive – to be remunerated, as far as possible, but what someone who has been unjustly imprisoned has been done. In this sense, I am particularly pleased that this proposal will be approved by all the parties today.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e17876	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Mayer to speak. . You will certainly start by playing the claim to be corrected, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e17907	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Bundesminister, I listened with great interest to your comments. They have noted that the payment to Peter Heidegger has been made in accordance with the law of official liability and not in accordance with the Steg. I'm correcting: According to the Government template 644 of the Supplements to the Stoneographic Protocols of the National Council of XXII. GP regarding the 2004 Budget Overrun Act, which we all received today, has been allocated € 0.950 million for the comparative adjustment of claims of a single replacement promoter under the Criminal Compensation Act. Therefore, according to government information, payment has been made in accordance with the criminal compensation law.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e17942	I call Mr Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e17960	Mr President. Minister! I mean, you can't add much to Mr Maier's statements. In fact, they show that if you take the word, you have to deal with things a little more precisely. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] - You know who I mean. I would now like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank and congratulate Mr Maier on the one hand, because, in the end, his requests and his intensive operation of this project, which have led us to decide on this law together today and also in a certain harmonious manner, if I may say so. You have to take this into account, because the possibility of really being forced here has existed for four years. If the Minister explains here today, apart from the Böhmdorfer service, that he does not fully understand the emotion that is involved here, in particular he does not understand why one is attacking the courts, so I do not think that is the right access. The courts were not attacked. It is important to note that things can happen; and that this happens very often in the field of executives, we know too. In particular, it will therefore be necessary to pay particular attention in the future. The fact that many claims are official liability claims is also correct and true. Therefore, it is also necessary that we do something in the field of liability in the future in the event of intangible damage – which we have covered by the Criminal Reimbursement Act; a compensation for damage can also be granted in the event of intangible damage. Regrettably – and here we come with an amendment – it was not possible to implement what the law actually wanted and what the authors have set out to enforce, even consistently. That is why we still have this unfortunate regulation in the draft. In § 3 para. 2 states that it is in the discretion of the court, even if the detention has been unjustly imposed, but to create exceptions and not to grant compensation. We do not want this and are therefore in favour of the total deletion of this scheme. The same applies to § 4 para. 1. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you to agree to this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e18068	The amendment just read by Dr. Jarolim is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e18089	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! It's quite refreshing when you say: “So far, so good.” – It’s part of it, far has already come. Now part of the good and then part of the critic. Mrs. Minister! It is positive that, in this criminal compensation law, we have quite a regime which, in practice, constitutes human rights at last progress. We agree on this. There's no discussion. That's what we're carrying. You know for yourself that because of my question – by the way, one of the first questions you answered ad personam – an obvious abuse, namely regarding the case of Peter Löffler, was again the subject of the discussion. This was not a Kinkerlitz, because the said gentleman has already been acquitted in 1996 and has not received any compensation until recently. Of course, there was the discussion about the extent to which he could have suffered as a self-employed income loss or not and to what extent the Republic would, as it were, create precedents if it were to pay compensation for fictitious income and so on. That is quite understandable. On the other hand, it was really a scandal that someone was on the free foot, for the time he had spent innocently behind bars, but zero, received nothing compensation. On the contrary, mockery and pangs have dominated him because even the savings of living costs have been reckoned to him. You said that it would be better to find this case on the side of the positive things to be done. – That is why our positive consent and our positive basic attitude to this criminal compensation law. My colleague has briefly expressed a concern on our part. With the conditional punishments, we are not entirely satisfied with the solution you are meeting. Another aspect that has not yet been addressed is the risk of costs, because practically everything is dealt with at the civil process level. In our view, the Barbarella has had a remarkable criticism here. In the case of the Maintaining the assessment of the suspicions given to the persons concerned a kind of cost financing. This is not to be rejected, so that, in any case, even in a civil trial, people who do not have the appropriate financial possibilities come to their right. I think that, perhaps by means of a corresponding innovation or other improvement, we can achieve a result that, as it were, deserves all our goodwill. I also hope that you will understand this opposition to the criminal compensation law as a signal on the part of the opposition, that we are particularly cooperative in the field of justice – and that this will also be shown in another matter – and that you know that you owe it to the employees in your home, in particular. Mrs. Minister, all the best for the way forward – especially for the employees!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e18147	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Donnerbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e18166	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister of Justice! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning, I may make the following request to correct an editorial error of the Government template: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The importance of this amendment to the criminal compensation law has already been well-regarded and presented today, as I believe. The very dramatic and almost burgtheater mature idea and the appeal of my colleague Maier can, of course, address the problem that in all human decisions there are mistakes that human decisions with Mistakes are that people can be wrong, they can't change anything. This will always be a problem in the field of justice, with all the dramas: that there can be mistakes. However, I do not want to give the impression, Mr Maier, and I hope that this was not meant to mean that the good and internationally recognised quality of Austrian justice should be doubted or discredited in any way. As far as possible, the Austrian criminal justice system, I believe, both through its material provisions and through the procedural arrangements, offers the opportunity to avoid such mistakes. I would like to address very briefly the comments made by Mrs Moser, because she finally raised the question: How is it that a person – and this, of course, will be relatively common, perhaps in this area in particular – does not have the financial resources to enforce his claim? I should like to point out that, of course, procedural assistance is also provided and that any person who does not have the appropriate assets or income will be put to the side by means of a request for procedural assistance, in order to actually enforce his claim, if it exists. Finally, I would like to address what Mr Jarolim has said in the SPÖ amendment. I mean, and we also discussed this very intensively in committee, that a certain scope of the court is simply necessary. I trust in the civil courts here that they will also be able to fill out this scope in a reasonable and reasonable way, that they will benefit accordingly from this scope, because, of course, there can be a lot of doubts here and because there can be many cases, as we discussed in the Committee in concrete terms, in which compensation would really be inappropriate and incorrect. I believe that this is an important step in the future, and I am convinced that this law is a very positive step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e18239	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm. I note that the amendment, which has just been read by Mr Donnerbauer, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e18260	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Donnerbauer, if you could still agree to our amendment, then that would be an almost perfect law. Maybe you can still think about it. I think it's a thoughtful request. That would really be something we might still be dealing with. Then, as I said, from our point of view, it would really be a perfect law. It would no longer be possible to challenge it at the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. - We'll see. I would also like to thank my colleague, Mr Maier, once again. He was the one who has not given up in the last nearly eight years and has repeatedly – whether in the form of applications, whether in the form of requests – pointed to the necessary revision of the criminal compensation law, which dates back to 1969, is not exactly the latest law. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Our motion for a resolution is further defined, there is also this amendment, but in principle we are in agreement with this bill, and we regard it as a positive signal – a positive signal, above all, because of that. Because the European Court of Human Rights has repeatedly found that the arrest has to be compensated for whenever the arrested person has been acquitted. That has not been the case so far, and that is now, I hope, being changed. Ladies and gentlemen! It's important to me: Advocacy is advocacy, whether smooth acknowledgments or in-dubio acclaims. The second important thing is to redefine the compensation for criminal detention and condemnation in accordance with fundamental law, as well as extend it to safeguarding security. I very much welcome the fact that this has been extended to include a provisional custody of the federal government by an administrative authority or one of its institutions, provided that it was in the service of criminal justice, and that is important. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! The equality of security custody with detention ordered by a criminal court is long due to the outcome and impact of the withdrawal of freedom and constitutes legal certainty and legal clarity for those concerned. I also welcome, as did my previous speakers, that pain money will also be paid in the future, so there is a replacement for the intellectual damage. It is only right and cheap that victims of legal errors – and there are now, once in a republic, in a state – are properly compensated. The most massive intervention in the interests of the individual/individual interests is the withdrawal of personal freedom, and behind these legal errors are people, individual fates, whose family and economic existence has often been ruined. One issue that has not yet been addressed today is the establishment of a clearing body, as proposed in the law. That, I think, leads to a direct conflict of interest. We would have preferred to have a victim lawyer installed – in our request it was also read – because this one can act wisely and unboundly and does not have to pay attention to the fact that the Federation does not spend too much money. It was to be read in the materials on this bill that expenditure should be kept as low as possible. But that can't be the intention. If there is an error on these questions, the state must be so far as to compensate the victims properly. That there is a lot to do here, the practice is often not as we would like it to be, we look at the figures we have received. In the case of the 270 procedural institutions, which existed in 2003 – procedural and investigative institutions – there were only 116 applications under the criminal compensation law, and in the final effect only 86 were treated positively. This means that not even one third of those involved – despite the setting of proceedings, despite advocacy – have been compensated by the federal government, and that should give us some thought. There has to be another practice here. The Republic of Austria must be so far as to compensate for those who have been unjustly sentenced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e18325	Mr Doppler has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e18343	Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Council! Ladies and gentlemen! I refer to Agenda item 10, the Treaty of the Republic of Austria with the Republic of Austria. Poland on the addition of the European Convention on Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters. The European Convention on Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters of 20 June 1990. In April 1959, the Contracting Parties may conclude agreements to facilitate application. The essential objective of such an agreement is to simplify the provision of legal aid. It is therefore appropriate to make use of the possibility of a bilateral additional contract under the European Convention on Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters. Such contracts already exist with Germany, Switzerland, Liechtenstein, France, Italy, Hungary, the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic. The Treaty is legislative and legislative supplement and therefore requires the consent of the National Council in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 1 Federal Constitutional Act. The present Additional Treaty, which is based on the Treaties mentioned above, meets the needs of even closer cooperation between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Poland in the field of criminal law. According to this Treaty, cooperation and legal assistance will also have to be provided for criminal acts. A significant simplification occurs in the fields of postal delivery and translation. However, the Convention also regulates the resumption of procedures, requests for grace and claims for compensation. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleagues! Also regulated is the execution of objects and other assets for the purpose of handing over to the injured person or to other judicial orders in the requesting State. The Convention also provides for a half-yearly exchange of criminal news and for the transmission of information. Legal assistance is extended to the extent described. Honourable Members! The direct movement between the Austrian courts and prosecutors on the one hand and the Polish courts and prosecutors on the other is introduced, facilitated and improved. . I would therefore ask the honourable Members of the House to give their approval to this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e18391	Mr Puswald has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e18420	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr. Dozent Donnerbauer, thank you for the lessons in forensic ignorance and human contempt! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] It's forensic inconsistency when you put it here that the justice is free of errors! That's not all of us, and it's not justice. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] Especially despicable – but that is quite typical of this black and blue government! – is if you go here and disqualify the presentation of an authentic letter from a person whose life was destroyed by imprisonment and who no longer wants to live as a burgtheater mature. Mr President, I should like to thank That's just disqualifying yourself and your government group! More is really not to be said! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! We had the opportunity to discuss this government proposal in the Committee on Justice, and I would like to remind you once again of what we have already discussed, namely, how worrying it is in its current version of § 4 and that it will not go without the amendment tabled by my group if we want to find a system corresponding to all our intentions. According to the current legislative proposal, they have excluded compensation, among other things, if a person conceals material excisive circumstances or otherwise has not been made against the arrest or arrest of speaking reasons or has not followed a proper charge. They therefore provide for the exclusion or, at least, the possibility of exclusion of compensation when a person makes use of his right to remain silent, i.e. a right that is even stated in each Gendarmerie Protocol in the entrance. Now we can discuss for a long time, as was already the case in the judicial committee, that, on the basis of the government proposal, we could interpret anything else from the explanatory remarks. Or, as Mr Donnerbauer says, Justice won't be. – This discussion would have to be if – and this is what we all want – we found an intelligent solution to formulate it as we all want it to be. This intelligent solution can be found in our amendment, and you are free to learn and agree to this amendment. However, I would like to tell you, Mrs Minister, that I would like to keep in mind – and ask you to take this into account when voting and finalising this text – that, on the one hand, you and the government argue that our courts cannot be mistaken and that they rely on the courts, but on the other hand, in the context of the aid, you must introduce a recursor's right of revisor with the argumentation: The courts are not so precise as to examine the aid. – When it comes to procedural assistance, which is only about money – and I say: Money is also important – if it is penable and does not trust the courts completely, then one should be all the more sceptical when it comes to judicial errors and the highest good, namely freedom. That is why I would ask you to agree to our amendment!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e18486	Mr Parnigoni is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e18505	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It has also been discussed about the Treaty on Legal Assistance with Poland. The main issue is that the adoption of law enforcement can simply be regulated between the public prosecutors and therefore a substantial simplification in the area of legal assistance. I would like to say to the criminal compensation law that this novel has long been demanded by the Social Democrats. In principle, it is a draft that does not agree to a hundred percent. Mr Jarolim has therefore tabled an amendment which concerns, above all, § 3 and § 4, and I would really like to invite you to come to your attention and give your consent to this amendment, because then, I believe, we would have created a very good law. Finally, it is a question – and this should be noted positively – that we now have a convention-compliant regulation of the right of replacement, that the Ideas also take into account and that the injured person can act directly in civil courts before he has to wait for a positive execution of his claim by a criminal court. As a general rule, we must say – and therefore I am also advocating your agreement to our amendment – that it is ultimately a matter of taking note that nothing worse can happen to anyone than to get innocent in prison, which can never be excluded by a hundred percent. In the end, judges and criminal officials are people, and where people are at work, mistakes happen. But the minimum is that there is an adequate compensation for the injured. I believe that this debate may also contribute to or have contributed to the fact that those who have to make decisions will become more aware of their responsibilities in decision-making. Ladies and gentlemen! It is quite clear that effective crime control is important on the one hand, but on the other hand the freedom of man as one of the most important goods that we have at our disposal must be clearly ensured. We have to create this spatula. We are in this conflict, and its solution must be worth all effort as a legislator. In this sense, I should like once again to express my support for our amendment. Otherwise, we will also give our approval to this law at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e18553	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Donnerbauer in word. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e18574	Mr President. Ms. Minister of Justice! High house! Mr Puswald has very massively attacked me in two points. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: He has rightly attacked you!]] I really have to correct him on both points. The first point was that I would have claimed that justice is completely flawless. – The exact opposite is the case: I have pointed out that errors occur wherever people act and make decisions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] Secondly, you have claimed that I would have dismissed the letter of a prisoner in an emergency situation as a burgtheater mature. – This claim is also incorrect! I have just presented and used the way in which Mr Maier has addressed a letter to him, which a person in a difficult emergency has addressed to him, in order to achieve a completely different goal, as a burgtheater mature. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Should this be an actual correction?]] I have spoken about how Mr Maier has kept her here as a burgtheater mature and not the letter of this prisoner.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e18655	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on Justice, the conclusion of the State Treaty in force, the Treaty with the Republic of Poland on the addition of the European Convention on Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters of 20 June. 518 of the supplements to be approved. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall also vote on the draft criminal compensation law in 636 of the supplements. Mr Fekter, Mr Böhmdorfer, Mr Hiezu have tabled an amendment. Mr Jarolim, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has also tabled amendments. First of all, I would like to put to the vote the parts concerned by the amendment tabled by Mr Jarolim, colleagues, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted, including title and receipt, taking account of the amendment tabled by Mr Fekter, Dr Böhmdorfer, colleagues and colleagues. Members of Parliament Dr. Jarolim, colleagues have an amendment concerning the cancellation of § 3 para. 2 and the corresponding renumbering of the following paragraph. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever is here, I ask him for a positive sign. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. Members Dr. Jarolim, colleagues have an amendment concerning § 4 para. 1 introduced. I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who speak for it. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever stands for it, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report, taking into account the amendment tabled by Mr Fekter, Mr Böhmdorfer, Mr President. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand for this to be a sign of confirmation. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at the third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – The draft law is therefore adopted unanimously at third reading. Finally, we come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Justice to take note of its report 637 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a corresponding sign. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. 13. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (613 d.e._Other Organiser The Federal Law, with which the Law of Law, the Civil Procedure Act, the Extraordinary Law, the Rules of Procedure, the Law of the Court of Justice, the Code of Law, the Federal Law for the Implementation of the European Convention of 27. January 1977 on the transmission of applications for procedural assistance, the Basic Account Transfer Act, the Company Book Law, the Law on Court Fees, the Law on Jurisdictions in the Law of 1962, the Law of Law of Law, the Law of Law of the Law of Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of Advocates and of the Lawyers (Civil Procedure Novelle 2004) (638 d.e.b.) 14. Point Report of the Committee on Justice on the Government template (403 e.g._Other Organiser Agreement between the Federal Government and the countries in accordance with Art. 15a B-VG, which amends the Civil Law Agreement on the transport of building property (639d.b.) 15. Point Report by the Committee on Justice on amendment 379/A (E) by Mr Mag. Johann Maier, colleagues and colleagues on “Novelling of the Property Sharing Act and the Income Tax Act” (640 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e18790	We now come to points 13 to 15 of the agenda, on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker in the debate is, in turn, Mrs Dr. Fekter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e18815	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Agenda item 13 is the 2004 Civil Procedure Novelle. It deals with the implementation of the Data Protection Act 2002. This is about the fact that the legislative acts are also subject to the Data Protection Act, which has so far been excluded from the Data Protection Commission. It is also a matter of regulating legal aid in cross-border disputes. Procedural assistance should not be limited to processes in one's own country alone. Think, for example, of maintenance procedures that are occasionally also conducted abroad! There should now be procedural assistance. One important point concerns the association rules. This is about the associations listed in the Consumer Protection Act in § 29 that are entitled to complain. With regard to the sample processes, the trailing claims are perceived in such a way that there is more efficiency and that the associations can better perceive their possibilities. A few days before the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, we also wanted to have a change with regard to mass procedures. They have made an amendment to us that a model process is being conducted in the mass procedures that are similar and that all other procedures are inhibited. We have not implemented this call a few days before the committee, but we take the problem seriously and have made a four-party resolution request because we already have to consider whether this barrier is also in the interests of all parties or only leads to the cost-effective legal protection process. I am glad that we were able to reach a four-party consensus here again and thus implement more efficiency in the field of justice.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e18854	Mr Jarolim has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e18872	Minister! Mr President. The whole thing is relatively unspectacular. There are a number of regulations which are implemented relatively unanimously and without dispute. I would just like to make a point on the issue of associational action and also on the proposals of the insurance industry. The VKI has also come up with a proposal. I would warn against that, as it seems here to be putting legislation on the case in question – the cases of the WEB cases – out of the hip. It is necessary to look at exactly what needs arise, because, in reality, mass procedures are of course already something where one has to ensure that not the whole epic width is brought in, that not everyone who is concerned should bring an action and that all legitimate restraints are equally affected. I ask myself whether it is not useful for some important legal questions, because ultimately these associations always go through all the instances, to create an instrument with the help of which there is a direct possibility of a request to the OGH regarding the clarification of important legal questions for a large number of persons. Perhaps, in the context of the development of the current instruments, we could also find a way to shorten procedures and, above all, to deal with them faster by a relatively rapid clarification of the legal issues. Otherwise we will agree, and there is nothing left to say. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e18910	Mr Böhmdorfer is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e18930	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister of Justice! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr Jarolim is right. At first sight it is not very spectacular what is being done here. In reality, it is a very fine, precise, very difficult work, taking into account the data protection law to adapt the judicial laws. I would like to thank Mrs. Dr. Kloiber now for having done so with that fine feeling and on the basis of the legal knowledge that is typical of the Ministry of Justice, because we really have to have a constitutional understanding. The Ministry of Justice has proved quite often that it is using the right sensors at the right time in these areas. It is also gratifying that procedural assistance is now being expanded internationally. This is not necessarily a matter of course insofar as procedural assistance, as it is practiced in Austria, is a unique one. If this practice is expanding in Europe, it is a good business card for us and us. The rule of jurisdiction has already been spoken. That was, in principle, right. With regard to WEB, we are still not quite through, as we still have to re-adjust other regulations. What is not to go down is the fact that video acquisitions can now also be carried out in the civil process. There have been concerns in this respect that we have discussed this very carefully. The fact is that this means incredible process acceleration and efficiency. There are now no requests for legal aid and no more file shipments. The judge gets a personal impression, a second judge is not required. The parties have a personal right of question, including a supplementary questioning right, which has not yet been given. There are no arrivals and no more fees for arrivals. So there are fewer costs, it goes faster and the procedure has become safer. Thank you for this legistic masterpiece! I also thank you for the common consensus.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e18970	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e18989	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speakers have already stressed that there is a consensus, but this really refers only to incontrovertible points, namely the improvement of data protection, the introduction of a video hearing, the modification of procedural assistance and the improvement of the association action. This consensus, Mrs Miklauch, is, as it were, a preliminary achievement in our confidence in the activity of your home and in the confidence in your activity, highly personal, that you will respect your promise that we will have a draft of the Ministry for the Change of Civil Law for ongoing mass proceedings – WEB has already been mentioned – by December, a draft that will allow for simplification in the mass procedures with a view to the interruption of the deadline. We trust in you, and I hope, Mrs Minister, that you will speak; I hope that this will be improved in the year, in the sense of those who have submitted this proposal to us. Our agreement, our consensus is based on the fact that there will be an overall improvement in the Austrian type of group complaint, since a draft of your ministry for next year has been promised by your side, Mrs. Federal Minister. Against this background, there is therefore agreement on our part despite minor concerns. – My colleague, Mr Stoisits, will then address the concerns relating to procedural assistance. In the case of the revisor, there may be a certain extension of the procedure for individual processes in the room; this should also be discussed briefly. So far our agreement – and I hope that your commitments, Mrs Minister, will be implemented within the year or next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e19024	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Ikrath. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e19042	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! I agree with the conclusion of my previous speaker that a very important legislative matter will be regulated with the Civil Procedure Novelle 2004. I am pleased that we were able to reach agreement on this and that this will be decided together. I would like to expressly acknowledge that this novelle, which is quite complex and in part has very specific and important content, has been prepared very professionally by the Federal Ministry of Justice, by the officials of this House. The three key priorities I see in this are as follows: the adaptations to the Data Protection Act, the implementation of an EU directive to facilitate access to justice in cross-border disputes, and the extension of model processes beyond monetary demands. A short period of time. Highlights on it: We know that association model processes are now a very essential instrument, as a kind of “test procedure” to clarify the material legal situation in the interest of large groups of people, which has proved to be very successful. I am sure that we are also agreeing that associations have proved to be the best practice in practice. It has therefore been very useful and also necessary that such a “test procedure” – if I may mention it again – should not only apply to claims of money but also to claims of other kinds, in particular those of publishing, knowing that there has been a deficit so far that they could not be subject to such procedures. Finally, I would also like to give my consent or support to the fact that, in relation to damage cases involving a large number of individuals, which have become more numerous in recent years, we are examining, in relation to so-called mass complaints, which are then developing from them, what rules there can be in order to carry out them more economically in the future, with a lower risk of process for individuals. On the other hand, however, we must also ensure that no one – especially in cases where individual proceedings are inhibited – is entitled to the right of appeal. So it must not be a forceful happiness for the individual. A corresponding motion for a resolution has therefore been put to Mrs Miklauch. It has our confidence that it will also examine this question in the sense of economic and fair management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e19094	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e19112	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to comment briefly on the issue of association action and to say the following: The enlargement that is being carried out here is certainly welcome and will bring improvement to those concerned and also to justice. The practice has shown that these complaints have proved to be good. However, there are also a number of cases where these types of association are insufficient, for example in the recovery of over-recovery interest rates due to non-lawful interest rate adjustment clauses. They all know of loans granted, especially in the 1990s, by banks where non-legislative interest-rate adjustment clauses have been agreed, which has led to problems. In the case of mass complaints, sample processes in this form are too few, because if the bank does not waive the objection of the limitation, the person concerned must, in any case, submit his claims in due time. That is why, as we have also decided in this motion for a resolution in the Committee and which is also included in the explanatory statement, it is certainly very positive if such a procedure can be interrupted in the future in order to wait for a model procedure. However, the criticism of the Chamber of Labour is that this is too little on its own, because the procedure will not necessarily be shorter, since it is also necessary to pass through the instances in a pattern process. Although there is already a judicatur of the OGH in the case of mass complaints, for example as regards these interest-rate adjustment clauses, there are still open legal questions. However, these could be clarified in advance by an application procedure – as my colleague Jarolim has explained here. So these demands are there, but they have not been incorporated into this novel, but I hope that in December, especially in the case of another novel, which will then be available to the judicial committee, these claims will also be satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e19161	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hakl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e19180	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! On the one hand, I would like to thank Mrs. F. Miklauch and the officials in the Ministry of Justice for the success - unlike many other cases - of avoiding so-called domestic discrimination. Sometimes it is true that, when we implement EU directives, citizens from other European countries are granted rights, they are forgotten to provide the same rights for Austrian citizens. That is why I am particularly pleased that It will also provide travel expenses for parties enjoying procedural assistance for Austrians, thus preventing domestic discrimination. Thank you many times for that! I would also like to point out – Mr Stoisits wanted to say something, but is not here now – that I am firmly convinced that, in the case of costs that are currently 16 million € – that will be more – and that for experts and witnesses of 10 million € – a review, which can be addressed by two-sided returns, is quite justified by a revisor. I assume that, on the one hand, this will rarely be used, and on the other hand, there will be no fear of delay in the proceedings. I think it is absolutely justified that, in these financial dimensions, such a review of the Federal Government's spending resources is possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e19212	The next speaker was Mrs Stadlbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e19230	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! I would like to comment on the amendment of the Court Organisation Act. Two points. First of all, the register and other business remedies and data protection in the case of jurisdiction. In principle, I have a positive assessment of this measure, just like the whole novelle, of course. Thanks to technical progress in the computer age, it is only logical that this type of work is also involved in the work of the judiciary and, above all, is regulated. The use of the computer means considerable work facilitation and improved working conditions for workers within the judicial system, and of course it also leads to disadvantages: Many, especially law firms, are no longer needed, and this, in turn, concerns mainly women. However, I also have to criticize the fact that the register has been used for a long time without a clear directive. It is not regulated, for example, which registers are kept, which matters are to be registered, how long what needs to be kept where, and so on. Without regulations, manipulations are easily possible. And so that we know what we're talking about: A name survey can be used to check which procedures are pending, namely in Austria. All procedural steps can be taken across Austria. In my opinion, this has to be dealt with very sensitively. I would remind you in this connection of the EKIS scandal. How easy such systems can be misused!Unknown term type: "%s".? I do not want to have to experience such a thing in the judicial system. We must avoid this in order to protect those concerned, but also to protect the workers who may be suspected of being wrong. According to my information, although access to the register is recorded, there is little to no information about whether and how this is controlled. Everyone inside the court has access, and this is a very incomprehensible circle. I very much hope, Mrs Minister, that you will be aware of what this means. Data protection in jurisdiction matters has been very well regulated in the government template. It's a step in the right direction. To protect the person concerned, but also the employee, it is absolutely necessary that you, as in § 80 para. 3 a regulation is to be adopted immediately. Second point: the use of technical equipment for the transmission of words and images in the taking of evidence. This measure is also welcomed in principle. The administrative burden is reduced and the financial effort may be lower. In this context, however, I would like to remind you of the rules of criminal proceedings or of the discussion in the subcommittee on these matters. At the time, our demand was that all victims of violence should have the opportunity to make statements about video. We have justified this because the danger of the traumatisation of victims is given if they meet the perpetrator again. Arguments from the Ministry of Justice were at the time that this was not possible, because the judge had to be able to make a personal picture of the victim's concern, otherwise there was no appropriate response, and the video was a bad evidence and, and, Or another argument was: Playing the video tape in the main proceedings is an alienation of the evidence. In short: It was not possible at the time to implement the whole thing. So I interpret the current § 91a as rethinking in the ministry when amending the court organization law and I am very pleased about it, and I hope for further steps in this direction – even though a “notch brake” is installed in this formulation: “according to the technical possibilities” stands here. In most cases, however, the technical possibilities probably need to be established first. In its opinion, the Ministry of Finance already writes that the additional expenditure in question should be covered by the budget. So a positive measure, which will probably fail in the financial context. What I would like for the future is that the use of video transmissions is not based on existing technology or on existing financial resources, but on the needs of the persons acting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e19292	Mr Glaser is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e19310	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Within the framework of this novel, there are various adaptations in various legal matters today. It has already been discussed: in the area of data protection, in the field of model complaints, in the field of procedural assistance or also in the field of technical assistance, for example, that witnesses are possible through video recording. Much has already been said about the various points of this consensus matter, which is why I would like to express my opinion on only two aspects. In the area of data protection, I believe, it is really a matter of finding a balanced line to what extent one actually releases data for the investigation of crimes and crimes, and yet it is still taken into account that the individual's personal fundamental rights are preserved. This will also not be possible with the legislation in the law alone, but it will certainly require a very strict employment of the persons concerned, and it will This decision may not always be easy, but it may also be difficult to make. This means, in the end, that despite all legal provisions, it is up to the people to decide how this decision is – hopefully right – made. I also think that the regulation, which has also been pointed out, can now be given additional assistance in the field of procedural assistance in cross-border disputes. We are implementing an EU directive and in addition allow translation costs, travel costs of witnesses et cetera to be taken over. On the other hand, I believe that this brings more security to the persons concerned, but I am also pleased that there is the possibility of the revisor to use a recursive right here, so that not every request for procedural assistance is accepted, because very often there are very wealthy people involved, where this is not necessary. In conclusion: I believe that these two provisions, as well as all the others we regulate with these materials, will succeed in carrying out a case law adapted accordingly to the time and their development. We will therefore be happy to agree to this regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e19358	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e19377	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Being right and getting right is not always the same. This is what countless Austrians know from their own painful experience. It is not always possible or intended to do something about politics here. Much is due to the unforeseen nature of procedural exits in general, to the difficulties of proof and so on. But where there are policy options, politics should also use these possibilities. Especially when it comes to helping people to have their right, all the structural obstacles, as well as they are, should be removed. And the biggest obstacle to really asserting legal claims is and remains the cost risk. Especially in the area of consumer protection, as already mentioned several times, collective, sample and association complaints have proved to be particularly successful, as in addition to a reduced process cost risk, the process economy also speaks for this. If you only look at the tragic case of the summer: 480 Turkey holidaymakers were seriously ill at the time, returning to their home country. It should have proved separately to each of the 480 that contaminated water or contaminated food was the cause of the disease. This would mean 480 processes where judges and experts would work in parallel in the same case and may even come to different results. Without collective complaints, many would probably not pursue their claims at all. This would certainly be right for the injured, but would not be in the sense of a responsible judicial policy, a judicial policy that must give its citizens the best possible legal protection. Furthermore, it must be said that collective complaints undoubtedly have a general preventive effect, because entrepreneurs are forced to the greatest possible care. In other words, collective complaints must – according to logical discretion – supported by the legislator by all means. I am also pleased that there should be a consensus in this House. The re-adjustment to be decided on today of the provisions relating to collective action is to be welcomed, but it is far from sufficient; ladies and gentlemen have already mentioned a number of points. I would like to stress once again the opinion of the CCI, which urgently calls for express regulation of the collective action by the legislator, because at present the legal situation is extremely uncertain. There is a massive demand for policy to help those who have the right to get justice. Mrs Minister, I would like you to benefit from the remaining term of office in this sense. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e19422	The next speaker was Mrs Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e19440	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer to the Property Sharing Act, which is the simplified accounting procedure for me. What mayor does not know about the problems of making basic solutions, basics for a building, for spreading, for repatriation or for taking over roads or roads! It needs skilled negotiators, and above all it takes a lot of patience to get the approval of often very many property owners. If this step has been taken, there will often be considerable costs and considerable administrative burden, because in the accounting there are often problems with the basic book-keepers who, according to the Property Sharing Act, see the value limits. There is a resolution by Tennengauer mayors, who have drawn attention to these problems. This resolution is probably speaking from the heart of many community leaders. In the event of a change in the Property Sharing Act, which allowed for a simplified booking without any value limits or with very high value limits, the Public Prosecutor has raised serious concerns: It fears that the rights of persons entitled to the book will be cut, and is therefore subject to constitutional concerns. There is now a four-party request that the Ministry of Justice should take these things very seriously and work out a good solution with the representatives of the local authorities without the owners coming under the wheels. This means that sufficient account should be taken of the protection of creditors. I would be particularly pleased to see administrative simplification in this area, because it would, of course, also save a great deal of money.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e19481	Next item is the report by Mr Dr. Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e19501	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As much has already been said on item 13 on the agenda, I would like to address TOP 14 very briefly. With a Federal Constitutional Law Novelle 1992, the traffic with built-in or land intended for construction was transferred into national competence. This provision is therefore twelve years old; in 2000 the order of execution was changed. It is only too useful, therefore, to adapt a provision made twelve years ago to new law requirements. That could have happened four years ago. In any event, I think it is all right that these simplified procedures for understanding the Rules of Procedure should also be used in this Article 15a agreement. It is reasonable for the expert to be able to communicate directly to the authorities of the finding and the estimation of the property. It is also no longer necessary to direct the auction fund to a number of public authorities. With regard to the motion for a resolution under TOP 15, I would like to say that, for some time now, our honourable Member, Mr Maier, has been trying to simplify the law on the sharing of property, because it is not reasonable for mayors or other authorities who have negotiated the establishment of a road to road et cetera to understand that the accounting procedures provided for in the Property Sharing Act are made in such a complicated way, even in the case of small basic contracts with which the owners agree. I think it is reasonable that a working group should be set up to simplify these provisions. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the ÖVP.]] In this sense, we will find our approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e19544	Mr Praßl is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e19563	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I too would like to address my contribution to the amendment of the Article 15a agreement on civil law provisions on the transport of building materials. Dear ladies and gentlemen! With this Federal Constitutional Law Novelle, Federal Law No. 276/1992, the transport of land for construction or construction was transferred to national competence. The advantage resulting from it lies in the reduced administration and in the absence of the delivery of certain court decisions. This will save the associated delivery costs. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, Article II of this amendment also states that the national laws concerning administrative restrictions on the transport of these land are to be brought into force only after the in-force steps of an agreement between the Federal Government and the countries on the establishment of uniform civil legislation on the matters of land transport to be regulated by national law. This agreement is to be concluded in accordance with Article II(l)(c) of the Treaty. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act Novelle also applies to the transport of foreign land and the transport of agricultural and forestry goods. economic property is relevant by adapting the national laws to this agreement within two years. On the basis of this amendment to the Article 15a Agreement on this Civil Law provision on the transport of building property, we see how efficiently this Federal Government is working and is designed to achieve savings and administrative reliefs. In addition, costs are saved, which ultimately benefit both the taxpayer and our country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e19605	Mr Ledolter has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e19623	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is quite pleasant that a four-party consensus is emerging in the course of the debate. I do not think this is about, because, although several reservations have been expressed in the committees, this matter is, on the one hand, borne by a clear focus on the needs of people, such as the criminal compensation law or, on the other hand, in the case of video hearing and the associated possibilities with regard to the protection of victims, on the other hand, by the principles of procedural economy and procedural simplification in terms of administrative simplification and, above all, in terms of sustainable savings, such as in the area of consumer protection cases or in the case of mass procedures, as has already been made clear here, in a way which is very sustainable in terms of saving capacity. As mayor, I am of course also pleased that there is an agreement to the Property Sharing Act and to the possibility that, as it has already existed, there will be a depreciation of the inferior divisions according to Sections 13 and 14 of this Act. That's a matter that's certainly taken up well by the mayors. All those, ladies and gentlemen, and also towards the People's Procuratorate, who have expressed concerns about the possible reduction of the rights of the property owners concerned, the servitute, the services et cetera, which could go down, I would like to say one thing in all its clarity: Good mayors, who work with expertise and expertise, are always in line with their citizens, are always in line with people, and therefore such a law will not change the fact that the mayor party in Austria will continue to be the Austrian People's Party in the future!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e19657	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want the final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we shall vote on the draft Civil Procedure Novelle 2004 together with the title and receipt in 638 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – The draft law has been adopted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That is also unanimity. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee Report 638 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. This resolution was adopted unanimously. (E 71.) We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Justice, the conclusion of the agreement between the Federal Government and the countries in accordance with Article 15a of the Federal Constitutional Act, which amends the Agreement on Civil Law on the Transport of Building Items, in 403 of the Supplements to give approval. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. The request was adopted unanimously. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Justice to take note of its 640 report of the additions. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. The request was adopted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 640 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign to do so. The resolution was adopted unanimously. (E 72.) 16. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Johann Maier, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Contracting Parties Act (454/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e19755	Now we come to the 16th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. The first speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e19779	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I was still there when the construction contract law was passed in the judicial committee and here in this House. The statements made by all the political groups have, for example, stated: We have created a law and have assured consumers accordingly, there will no longer be fraud on the landlords! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In recent years, a better person has taught us: The Gauners in this area have identified shortcomings and protective gaps. The Baustandercontract Act – and this has been demonstrated by a large investigation – has numerous protective gaps and shortcomings. Damaged in a building company bankruptcy, which takes place time and again, regardless of whether in Tyrol, Salzburg or Vienna, on the one hand, well-believed house buyers and on the other hand – and I emphasize this – are the unsecured professionals who face the residual risk. Now, if anyone of you thinks it's a matter of individual cases, I have to correct this: These cases are preprogrammed by the system of the contract law. The problem we currently have is that bankruptcys have increased enormously from builders to the burden of house buyers and professionals. Some examples: In Tyrol, the gaps in the contract contract law with the bankruptcy of the two largest builders of Tyrol have gained special brisance. They were domizil building companies. Many professionals and apartment buyers were damaged. The situation in Salzburg is similar after the bankruptcy of the builder Gassner, who speculated with his real estate in Florida. In turn, the professionals and the buyers have remained. The Chamber of Workers of Tyrol has – and I emphasize this; it was President Dinkhauser! – Professor of the University Dr. Helmut Böhm commissioned him to work out the protective gaps in the contract law. On the basis of individual cases of problem, Professor Böhm found out more than 20 protective gaps. One of these gaps he has also found out in the withdrawal periods of the Contracting Parties Act, and this proposal for an initiative by me is to extend these withdrawal periods from seven days to fourteen days. However, I see this request – and I say so very openly – if you want to, as a “carrier rocket”, because I believe that we in this House should discuss the shortcomings and problems in the contract law of the builder’s contract on the basis of the present opinion. There is also a very detailed motion for a resolution from my side, where the basic demands have already been worked out and contained in the resolution. What are these problems? – It is about the immediate abolition of the sole guarantee by means of ground-booking measures. One simply needs accompanying security measures, e.g. in the form of a completion guarantee or a bank guarantee or insurance. There is also a need for a new regulation, because banks – and this has turned out in Tyrol – -, namely, the banks of the builders regularly refuse in bankruptcy to release property charges if the acquirer has not paid the entire purchase price, but the property only partially – I emphasize: only in part! - is built. Another major problem, particularly with regard to warranty problems, is that the last rate, as is included in the plan under the contract contract law, can only be paid when the unit and the external equipment are completed completely after the warranty period has expired. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I could, of course, expand the list of games. I believe that on the basis of this opinion, we should discuss and try these problems in the Committee on Justice, to come together to a regulation, as was the case with the Contracting Parties Act at the time. On the one hand, it is about damaged consumers, and on the other hand it is about damaged unsecured professionals. I hope that we will come to a solution together.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e19843	The next speaker is Mrs Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e19861	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The main aim of the proposal to amend the contract law on construction promoters is to ensure that, as we have already heard, well-believed house buyers are not harmed in any building company bankruptcy that occurs at all times. Thus, the OGH recently found in a judgment that safeguards in the current contract law offer only limited security. Examples of bankruptcys by builders – Mr Maier has already mentioned some – by which numerous consumers have been damaged have clearly identified the gaps in the existing law. Therefore, the EIA is open and positive to this request. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In order to show the gaps in the acquisition of an apartment, the study mentioned was commissioned by the Chamber of Workers of Tyrol. University professor Dr. Böhm has shown the gaps. One of the most serious weaknesses of this law lies, I think, in the fundamental security model. It is precisely because of the wording in the law that such problems arise. I would like to illustrate this in an example of better understanding: The builder goes into bankruptcy, the acquirer has not yet paid the total purchase price, the object is not finished. In this case, the Purchasers first satisfy the bank of the builder and have the construction finished at their own expense. These are, of course, problematic conditions. As has already been pointed out in some examples, the bankruptcys of builders are not individual cases. Therefore, something needs to be done, there is a need for action. This law is a young law that needs an evaluation. That is why it is not only to be revised punctually, but also to introduce an overall view. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] All the experiences will be brought in, and the study by Dr. Böhm will be taken into account in the Federal Ministry and the results will be presented. We are all sure that this will finally happen, and I am convinced that a good solution will be presented to the Committee on Justice.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e19916	The next item is the speech by Mr Neudeck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e19935	Mr President. High house! In principle, most of my previous speakers have already been said on the subject of contract building contract law. I also believe that this is basically a good law. It is clear that now, after seven years, gaps are to be closed, which are quite there or there. It is often so that for the ordinary and good There is no need for working builders, but perhaps for those who have always known where the gaps were. You'll never be able to completely rule out that. There will always be crimes and fraud, but you have to make the loopholes smaller. I would like to say to the study: I believe that the conclusions drawn from them are partly not due to errors in the law, but to the fact that there or there banks or trustees have used some gap or interpretation and have therefore not been done in the way it would have been in accordance with the law. However, I also believe that these gaps should be closed and people should not be referred to the legal basis, because the consumer protection principle is here. In the Federal Ministry of Justice, a working group is involved. I thank you for the suggestion and believe that this will be treated well in the Justice Committee and in the Ministry over the next few weeks and months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e19971	The next item is Mrs Dr. Moser's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e19989	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! They were all able to hear that Mr Maier's initiative, with his request for initiative, was to bring about a change in the construction contract law so that both consumers, landlords, housing interests as well as small and medium-sized enterprises, professionals, no longer suffer from the abuses that have unfortunately been torn down, found a positive echo. No question that we too welcome this excuse, no question that we are glad that the Justice Committee is discussing it, but it is important not only to work out the deficits in the Builder Treaty Act, but also to look into the banking world and put the lever there. I think it's worth getting closer to. I hope that a consensus will be reached in this area and in this matter. I am curious when – and this is the open point – you will take up the initiative of Mr Maier. There should not only be a first reading, but we also need a deadline. We should also confess that this year, in the Committee on Justice, we will continue to tackle this essential matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e20023	Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e20041	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The statements of my previous speakers make my task much easier. I am pleased that it is once again possible in the Austrian Parliament to solve a problem that is willing to be identified together, even if the request does not come from the coalition parties. I hope that we can experience such star lessons, my lords clubmen, even more often, because this is more than necessary. Ladies and gentlemen! The builders are of particular importance to the rural population. They make a big contribution to social housing. We need this contribution to come to real estate for Otto normal consumers. The decision to buy an apartment – and this decision is difficult – makes most families only once. You need our protection, and I can ask you to implement this protection as soon as possible with the 14-day withdrawal period. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e20073	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. I agree with request 454/A to the Committee on Justice. The agenda is exhausted. Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e20107	We are now negotiating the request made by Mr Bures, colleagues and colleagues to set up an examination committee on the examination of the conduct of the Federal Ministry of Health and Women, the Federal Ministry for Social Security and Generations, and the main association of social security bodies with regard to the planning, preparatory proceedings, contractual negotiations, awards and overall implementation of the Chipkarte (e-card) project as from the initiation of a corresponding award procedure by inviting five applicants to submit a bid in February 2000. As this request has now been distributed to all Members, a reading by the author is not necessary. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e20276	We are going into the debate. In the sense of § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure is the speaking time in this debate for 5 minutes, with the first speakers having a speaking time of 10 minutes. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I call Mrs Bures. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e20300	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The S & D Group today submits a request for the establishment of an investigation committee to clarify the incidents surrounding the introduction of a social security card, a chip card, an e-card. This card has already got several names. We therefore call, above all, for the establishment of an investigation committee, because since 2000 – since then, four years have passed since – only chaos exists around the introduction of this social security card and because around the introduction of this chip card there is massive waste of money at the expense of taxpayers and insured persons. This chip card has been discussed for four years now. The National Council decided this in 1999 and, in fact, there is nothing in this respect, neither a trial operation nor a concrete concept. [[Abg. Donabauer: You have successfully prevented this!]] The only thing that is obviously fixed is the fact that you want to ask the insured back to checkout. The only thing that is fixed is the fact that you said in 2000: They're supposed to pay 50 s for it! But right after that, namely in 2001, you said: 10 € is the minimum! [[Abg. Donabauer: This is not the topic!]] Her Minister of Smoking has now ordered that this is too little. [[Abg. Donabauer: You prevented it!]] It is clear that something has to be paid, but a product is not on the table, and this government is obviously not in a position to do so. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] Since 2000, there has been nothing but Murks and nothing but failure on this issue by this government and the minister responsible, and I believe that it is extremely necessary for Parliament to deal with what is actually the causes of the failure around the project of introducing the chip card. – It is important that, when taxpayers are squandered, the question is: Who is responsible for these abuses, for this waste of money, for this chaos that exists? I also find it interesting that it is obviously in the government group on the question: Who bears the responsibility?, nothing but mutual debt allocations. Minister Chief says Minister Rauch-Kallat is responsible, and Minister Rauch-Kallat says it's Prime Minister. If the two of them are unable by the government to assume responsibility for what is obviously the case, then I think it is time that there was a parliamentary investigation committee that looked at exactly what the two members of the government were talking about each other. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, there is not only a criticism of the opposition, which is of course justified, but also a criticism by the Court of Auditors, which reads as follows: The project's tenders do not vote, there are promotions from 2002. – There is no chip card, but there is an advertising campaign, amazing! It costs eh “only” €3.6 million! But, of course, you don't have any money for the heating grant. Who is responsible for putting millions in the sand? – The Court of Auditors criticises the fact that there are hearing, non-comprehensible consultation costs, and the whole process continues in 2003. In connection with the introduction of a good idea – a chip card in the field of social security – this government only has irregularities, chaos and waste of money, non-compliance with federal procurement laws, massive costs, costs in millions. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I think that this makes it clear that there is a need for control that there is a need for an investigation into the introduction of the chip card, and it is high time that those who are responsible for this waste of money and for this chaos also assume political responsibility for it. A parliamentary committee of inquiry – and if you have nothing to hide, you agree – could bring light into the dark.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e20381	We are now going into the debate. The first speaker is Mr. Dr. Rasinger. Speaking time: 5 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e20403	Actually, I could now immediately end my speech and say: [[Demonstratetive applause with SPÖ]] [[Calls:Consent]] We reject this, because I have rarely experienced such a weak argument in this House. The co-founder is Mr. Deputies of Herbs – a football college of mine. Dear Günther! You wrote in a press release: Shoot your own knees. – I would say: A veritable owner is what you shoot! It calls for an investigation committee to examine the events as of February 2000. Do you know who was the head of the association then, and that's another 18 months? – Hans Sallmutter! [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] Hans Sallmutter! And Hans Sallmutter really has nothing to do with the ÖVP – I obviously have to defend him against you here! The EDS/ORGA won the procedure at that time. 27 proceedings were sought against this bidder procedure – all have won the main association; I defend it right there. The EDS could not fulfil the contract, it became a ponale due. So it's an unpleasant, but common process in the economy that you're scandalizing. You're scandalizing that! Now, Mr. Kandlhofer, whom you call a retreat, had 18 months. I say. He has done a lot in the 18 months – if you only have a spark of fairness, admit it. Eleven years the project lasted, dear Mrs Bures! Eleven years, not four years! And of the eleven years apart from chaos, nothing has really remained. What's it look like today? – You didn’t put a single fact on the table here. Instead of €125 million, it costs 116 million. Now I say, and you, too, say: It's all too much! – Do you know how much the German chip card costs, which is also in delay, because you underestimate it a little? – It costs 1.8 billion D-Mark! Divide this once by ten, then you will come to €180 million, so the Austrian chip card is about €60 million – I emphasize: by €60 million! – cheaper, or around a third; you would know that if you were present in mathematics lessons. [[Abg. Broukal: The D-Mark is not divided by ten!]] They say nothing goes on. ==References== December the chip card goes into pattern operation, and at the end of next year the rollout is in Austria. 18 months we have been rehabilitating – or Mr. Kandlhofer and the main association, I do not want to put this as a spring on my hat – and the project has been improved! The project is improved, dear Mrs Bures! First: It's online. Secondly, It's also the citizen card. Thirdly, It's also the e-recept, there's a contract with the doctor's chamber. So all you've written in there is really a case for the fairy tale hour! We cannot accept such a request at all, because we want to work and it should go on a little bit further. For security – and this is really ridiculous – your application is a reason to call a lawyer who gets 177,000 € for management and technology. – You used it! They also refer to a fee contract of 653 000 as estimated. – It's not supposed to be charged! Do you know how much was charged of the €653,000? - 93 000 €! – Mr Kräub, in a Committee on the Court of Auditors you should do a little more research so that the accusations have a little substance! Thirdly, The TU research group has delivered €2.3 million of know-how. Without this, the project, the experts say, would not have been feasible at all. – Yes, in case of danger in default, such orders can be awarded. The project is after 18 months, and what's even better, it's better than you brought it together 11 years earlier. I'll stay with you – I'll stay with you! –: Mr. Kandlhofer, Mr. Schörghofer and the team in the main association – in the main association! – have been rehabilitating, have brought together more in 18 months than in 11 years before. I understand that one does not want to see the truth in a dark cloud of suspicions – it is also embarrassing if I look at this committee of inquiry. They want vortex – we want something to go on! We will not accept this request with good conscience: Not we shot ourselves in our own knees, Mr. Herbs, but you shot a veritable own gate!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e20484	Mr Herzegovina is now speaking. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e20502	So, dear football college Erwin Rasinger! You can't do it that easy at all. I strongly recommend a search and a reading of the Court of Auditors' report and the Internal Audit Report. If you read this through, my dear colleague Rasinger, you can't give such a speech – that's totally impossible! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear Erwin Rasinger, to the much praised Mr. Kandlhofer, the Sanierer, who, in your opinion, has made everything right, I can tell you: This man has committed a smooth breach of law, which has violated the federal law, several times! Do you know what he's saying? – He says that the Court of Auditors sets aside formal matters and that it is not always possible to proceed according to the Maria-Theresian law of law. [[Bravorufe at the ÖVP.]] – Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the man is at war with the rule of law! This statement alone warrants a committee of inquiry! Someone who gives such public statements is unbearable! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: That must not be true!]] Mr Rasinger! But what's he doing? – Kandlhofer opposes the accusations: No cent and no euro has been unnecessarily fried. – Yes, Erwin Rasinger, what was the questionnaire action with the advertising campaign in the first half of 2002? What does Mr Ettinger – by the way not a dark comrade – write about this in the press? – Ettinger writes: “In the meantime, however, it has become a parade example of how money from contributions from insured persons is thrown around carelessly: In the previous year, even in expensive TV spots, the benefits of the card have already been praised. Insurances and patients may feel scrambled.” – Citations. This, ladies and gentlemen, should not be justified by a committee of inquiry?- Oh, my God! Or: In 2004 the press writes: 'Surely expensive inadequacies relating to the information action. With the aim of updating the personal data of the social insurance companies, the main association had spent about €3.6 million in 2002, although delays for the completion of the e-card had already been foreseen the year before.” – Quotes. Unlike better knowledge, money has been spent. – And shouldn’t that justify an investigation committee?- Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen! There is a particularly “fine” detector in this matter, namely Dr. Jörg Haider, who has performed a great deal, with massive accusations against the ÖVP. I then allowed myself to invite Dr. Haider to speak to the Court of Auditors as an informer. Now a short chronology of an egg dance with regard to chip card. – “Jörg Haider doesn’t want to say before RH Committee.” – 10.51 a.m., 10. September. Hair repeats: “Will call on FPÖ mandates to vote for my charge.” And then it says: “Smooth” – that is, the Secretary-General – “has referred to Haider’s willingness to make a statement to the Court of Auditors on the Causa chip card being renewed today. “Crowds have only to give an invitation.” – Mr Scheuch, I did so on Wednesday, 22. September, done! – Result: The FPÖ has rejected Dr. Jörg Haider's cargo! I mean, “Haider has only a big mouth, but it’s nothing behind it.” It was “last - class and pitiful, ” I continued to say when he behaved in this way. Do you know what Mrs. Bleckmann meant? – Of course, Kärntner’s head of state Jörg Haider, should he be invited to the Court of Auditors by FPÖ in this context, will follow an invitation. - As far as Mrs. Bleckmann is concerned. You know, ladies and gentlemen, what was the end of this lubrication comedy on 6 June. October? – The SPÖ and the Greens voted in favour of Dr. Jörg Haider’s cargo and against the ÖVP and FPÖ, although Haider has said earlier literally that “I will call on the FP mandate to vote for my charge”. “The foaming of the SPÖ accountant Günther Kräub..., Haider does not trust the Court of Auditors to declare himself unapproached to Haider,” it continues. What is the background, ladies and gentlemen? – Jörg Haider has both ears inside. Elisabeth Sickl, Herbert Haupt, Reinhart Gaugg, Beate Hartinger – a scandal of FPÖ, a scandal of ÖVP. A committee of inquiry is more than right!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e20570	The next speaker is Mrs Rosenkranz. It also has 5 minutes of legal speaking time. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e20590	Mr President. High house! You really have an excellent imagination, deputizing herbs! What you have commanded here, Mrs Bures, was not only thin, but politically strange, because you want to put your Mr Sallymutter in such a distress, it is quite surprising. But it was a lot wrong, above all, because the chip card has not been discussed successfully for four years, but the first field experiment is from 1993. The Minister of Social Affairs, who was responsible at the time, was Hesoun. The first decision was taken in Parliament in 1996. The chip card should then come in 1998. As early as 1997, the first shift was made, and the year 2000 was the year. [[Abg. Riepl: Why don't you start telling me about the fifties?]] In this way, it has actually been quite a long way to go. They've had seven years and haven't brought it together. Getting Now They may criticize the fact that after four years it is not yet there – even if it is long. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: What about Haider?]] But back to the actual request and the matter. . I should like to point out to you that the Federal Minister for Social Affairs in January 2003 has set up an initiative to clarify the abuses he has gained knowledge of. He has initiated an internal audit, and the results of this examination have led him to encourage the Court of Auditors to examine further here. This audit report is now available for the opinion of the main association. As you know, the procedure is still under way, there is no end result yet. Other measures are therefore absolutely inappropriate at the moment and are actually irrelevant.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e20641	Last speaker: Mr Oellinger. It is also available for 5 minutes of exploitation. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e20659	Thank you, Mr President – That's interesting: Since when is the problem with the chip card? We have heard several versions here alone: 1993, 1996, 1999. Now, although I believe that it would not be the task of a committee of inquiry to examine since when there is a chip card project, this alone proves that there is a lot of ignorance in the game. However, I also understand on the other hand that the government parties have great difficulties in setting up a committee of inquiry, no matter what the subject, as the government parties, ÖVP and FPÖ, have managed to set up a committee of inquiry during the last legislative period, while at the same time sinking it, a committee of inquiry that has worked for over two years – and partly has not worked badly. Nevertheless, the government parties whose declared objective was to speak to the Social Ministry and thus the past: to blacken the SPÖ have not managed to achieve any result. So that you're having trouble with an investigation committee, I understand, just: The Examining Committee would already have his authority! I wonder that certain names – some have already been liked – have not yet been mentioned. For example, after Mr. Sallmutter, President of the main association of the Federal Government, as it is now apparent, was replaced by three managing directors by law in an illegal and unconstitutional procedure. And the chairman of this panel was and is Mr. Kandlhofer; he was already mentioned. But whoever has not yet been mentioned by the first three appointed managing directors, that is Mr. Nischelbitzer. Mr. Nischelbitzer came from Carinthia and, as it were, although he was somehow attributed to the SPÖ, came to the main association on the "Haider-Ticket". Mr Nischelbitzer's qualifications? – Unknown. But his primary task in the main association was the Chipcard project. [[Abg. Newborn: Would have been!]] Yes, a knowledgeer smiles! Mr Nischelbitzer was appointed in 2002. But at the end of 2002, Mr. Nischelbitzer said: Bye, that was too much for me! He had himself done a wonderful job and swindled himself out of the main association as the managing director of it! But the government parties who ordered him, Mr Rasinger, say: We need a new one! – This is an incredible process! You are right, Mr Rasinger, to mention Mr. Nischelbitzer, even though he was responsible for this at a very critical stage – EDS/ORGA – and was in fact also responsible for the public information within the main association, and for the fact that EDS, I believe, was one of his relatives in a responsible position, which does not create a good look. That is exactly why Mr Nischelbitzer was no longer mentioned when he was gone. Mr Nischelbitzer has spent a lot of time and money in this activity. He's not just the problem, we know, but it would be worth investigating this Causa chipcard because we could and should learn a lot from it too.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e20699	No one's been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request made by Mr Bures, colleagues, to set up an investigation committee. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to show this by a sign. – The application does not find the sufficient majority. He is therefore rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00078_d7e20735	I am still announcing that in today's session the self-employed applications 455/A to 458/A have been tabled. Question No 2192/J to 2203/J has also been received. I would like to point out that, before I close the meeting, another important communication will be made. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 14. October, 9 o'clock, one. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. The session will be started at a current hour and will be held without interruption, i.e. without a lunch break. [[General condolences and bravails.]] The two experiments have shown that our infrastructure is not able to master a 30-minute lunch break. [[Abg. Broukal: We always say this: the infrastructure is missing!]] I therefore asked the club members, the second president and the third president: We were all unanimous in the opinion that we should not persist in a mistake so that we do not make a mistake. That's why the experiment is over. – The general appeal shows that a president can easily make you all happy. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] The sitting is closed.
