ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e1629	The 69. The meeting of the National Council is open. The official protocols of 65 and 66. Meeting of 16 March 1990 ==References====External links== Meeting of 17 March 1990 In June 2004, the European Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies of Csörgits, Scheibermair and Mag. Weinzinger. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e1660	For today's meeting, the Federal Chancellor's Office on the resolution of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government has issued the following communication: Federal Minister of State Defense Günther Platterwird by the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour Dr. Martin Bartensteinrepresentation; Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Dr. Benita Ferrero-Waldner will be the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Josef Pröllress. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e1696	I also have a letter from Mr Bundeskanzler, which reads as follows: Mr President, I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council. I have the honour to inform myself that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with his resolution of 25 February, has been the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. ==References== 300,000/1-BEV/04, in accordance with Article 74(1). 3 Federal Constitutional Act the Federal Minister for Justice Dr. Dieter Böhmdorfer as well as the State Secretary at the Federal Ministry of Health and Women University Professor Dr. Reinhart Waneck has removed from the office. At the same time, on my proposal, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany has, in accordance with Rule 70(1). 1 Federal Constitutional Act Mrs Mag. Karin Miklauch as Federal Minister for Justice and Mr Mag. Eduard Mainoni appointed State Secretary at the Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology.” The Federal Chancellor has announced his intention, according to § 19 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on a Constitution for Europe – the European Council of 17 and 18. A statement was made on June 2004 and on the amendment of the Federal Government's human composition. The Greens have informed the President of the National Council that, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure in force, they are concerned that two such different issues may be the subject of a single declaration. I have agreed with the Greens in the direction that today I will allow this statement with two objects without prejudice – an expression that Professor Van der Bellen particularly appreciates – and that we will discuss the question of the Rules of Procedure at the next presidential conference on the basis of an opinion. – This is accepted by the general public. Furthermore, Mr. Vice-Chancellor has expressed his intention, according to § 19 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on ‘Personal Changes in the Federal Government’. – This is on the agenda as item 2. There is a desire by five Members to hold a joint debate on these statements in accordance with Article 81 of our Rules of Procedure. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e1784	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e1895	I also announce that the eighth report of the Inconsistency Committee has been distributed to all members of the National Council. Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 1560/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e1913	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform you that the request made pursuant to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure is to hold a brief debate on Question No 1560/AB of Question No 1558/J by Mrs Dr Gabriela Moser, colleagues on the sale of the state-owned housing company, especially the ESG Villach, by the Federal Minister for Finance. This brief debate takes place in accordance with § 57a para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure after completion of the agenda, but not later than 15 a.m. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e1937	It is proposed that the debate on points 1 and 2 of the agenda be summarized. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. We are therefore going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e1962	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the duration and shape of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 6 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, resulting in the following speaking times: ÖVP and SPÖ each 105, Free 72, Green 78 minutes. The following Rules of Procedure were also adopted for the period from 10.05 a.m. to 1 p.m., transmitted by the ORF: Declaration by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany with 20 minutes, declaration by the Vice-Cancellor with 15 minutes, with the declaration of another member of the government being taken into account for the time of the Vice-Cancellor. – Mr Vice-Chancellor informed me that the newly introduced Federal Minister for Justice will speak for 5 minutes and he will speak for himself for 10 minutes. Then there is one speech per group of 15 minutes each, then one word per group of 8 minutes each, then one word per group of 5 minutes each, and one word per group of 5 minutes each. The remaining speaking time until 1 p.m. will be distributed by the President-in-Office before the end of the last round of speakers – after consultation with the club presidents – to the four political groups in such a way that all political groups can speak. The purpose is to interrupt the meeting from 1 p.m. to 1/15 p.m. However, if actual corrections are made, they will be called at 1 p.m. and the meeting will not be suspended until 1/15 p.m. The following Rules of Procedure were agreed for the period from 13:15 a.m. to 3 p.m., which is also transmitted by the ORF: One speech per group of 15 minutes each, then one word per group of 10 minutes each. The remaining speaking time until 15 o'clock will be distributed by the President-in-Office – after consultation with the presidents of the club – to the four political groups in such a way that all political groups can still speak. The House shall decide on this Rules of Procedure. We shall therefore proceed to the vote immediately. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. 1. Point Declaration by the Federal Chancellor pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on the subject "A Constitution for Europe – the European Council of 17 and 18. June 2004” and “Change the personnel composition of the Federal Government” 2. Point Declaration by the Deputy Chancellor pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on ‘Personal Changes in the Federal Government’
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e2023	We come to points 1 and 2 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. Mr Bundeskanzler, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e2044	Mr President. High house! In these weeks, very many and very significant courses are being set in Europe. ==References== In May, we were able to welcome the reunification of Europe with the accession of ten new Member States. For the first time two weeks ago, the peoples of Europe – after all, 156 million people have made use of their right to vote – have elected a common parliament in freedom. A week ago, we were able to decide the first European Constitution at the Brussels European Council – and tomorrow the decision on the Union's leadership will take over the next five years: on the President of the Commission, the Foreign Minister and the Secretary-General. Ladies and gentlemen! What is happening there is actually historical, especially when you see it in a longer historical period. Today is the 90th anniversary. On the day of the murder of the Austrian heir to the throne and his wife in Sarajevo. Europe was set on fire at the time: World War I was the result. An incredible instability followed, especially in Central Europe. – And the Second World War was a follow-up of these events. Only now do we begin – laborious, difficult and painful – to overcome these problems. I think it does us very well when we sometimes look beyond Austria and try to see the whole thing. What do you even need this constitution for? – Karl Renner said literally almost 100 years ago, a few meters from here, in the Austrian Reichsratsaal: The nations will always fight, but the decisive thing is whether they fight with locusts, by mutual attack of the windows, or on the basis of some kind of a book. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! This ‘basic book’ – between quotation marks – is now available as a Constitution for nearly 500 million European Union citizens. This Constitution has brought together both European parliamentarians in the Convention and the 25 governments of the EU Member States. – Now the people’s representatives have to the citizens are convinced. This will not be quite easy, because many of the wishes for this new constitution are not so easily fulfilled. President Giscard d’Estaing has said that this Constitution should be understandable to all students. Is that her? – Some of them, I would say; some things are too complicated. But some things are understandable. The basic objectives of the Union: Full employment, social market economy, environmental protection, cultural diversity or the 54 articles of the Charter of Fundamental Rights for every citizen is understood. Freedom of expression is guaranteed, there is a ban on the death penalty, the equal rights of men and women and social rights. – All of this can be claimed at the European Court of Justice. Europe's citizens will be able to make proposals themselves. A million signatures are sufficient for the institutions of Europe, i.e. Parliament and the Commission, to deal with them. The institutions, too, are becoming clearer. At the head of Europe, alongside a President of the Commission, a longer-term President of the European Council and, above all, a European Foreign Minister supported by a joint diplomatic service will stand. – Henry Kissinger once said: He doesn't have a phone number he could call! There she is: There is a European Commission President and a European Foreign Minister. It is not unimportant, but significant in democracy that the European Parliament is greatly uplifted. Almost all decisions – 95 percent – will bring with them a co-decision of the European Parliament that is equal to or equal to the right to vote. In addition to all these general points, Austria has succeeded in negotiating some very essential national concerns that are important for us, and thus improving the text of the Convention, such as that our water or municipal services – including social services, health care, disposal in the community and transport – can remain under our control and can be financed by the local authorities themselves, that the equality of the Member States in the Constitutional Treaty is guaranteed that minority protection and animal welfare are firmly enshrined in the European Constitutional Treaty, that unanimity remains on delicate issues, such as in the financial perspective or in the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office or on the issue of price stability, which has been added to the target catalogue. The Commission will be strengthened in the deficit procedure vis-à-vis the status quo. The joint declaration by Germany and Austria, which on the first day has already joined the Irish Presidency to conduct an EuratoM revision conference, bears our handwriting and is a great success for our foreign minister. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There has been a major compromise. Of course, there are some who say it would be more important not to have any more unanimous decisions at all, one can always decide more quickly. That's right. But there are two principles: Consideration must also be given to the national states and their particularities. Moreover, decisions will be easier, because we now have more majority voting, 25 issues, for example, no longer need the principle of unanimity, but majority voting. But, at the same time, smaller countries cannot be passed over as easily as they work together. We have pursued and contributed to a coalition between the countries of the same countries, both small and medium-sized, from the beginning to the end of this Convention and the Constitutional Negotiation, and very important successes have actually been achieved: The number of minimum seats in the European Parliament has increased from four to six. The largest country – I also thank you for understanding Germany – even loses three seats. This is an important step for the little ones. The Spaniards and Portuguese wanted the population to be more taken into account than the Convention text. It is true that about a third of the population can block a decision. We understand. But on the other hand, every decision must also have the clear majority of the Member States behind it. The Convention was based on 13 Member States, and we are now 15 Member States and 55 percent respectively. And this has made sure that the voting weight of Austria is kept far better than was foreseen in the Convention text, so this is fully acceptable to us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have clearly strengthened the role of national parliaments with subsidiarity control. There is a brake for the first time if the principle of subsidiarity is to be suppressed or neglected. A third of the national parliaments can become active vis-à-vis the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, many things will be complicated, because I also do not fully understand – the German ambassador is sitting at the top of the gallery – how the voting behaviour between the Bundestag and the Federal Council in the Conciliation Committee works exactly, yet Germany is an excellent democracy. Some people here do not have a question for insiders, for Rules of Procedure experts at all, but it is probably not a must for citizens to know all of this. Important for us was: Now the big states have two Commissioners, the middle and small one. There will be a Commissioner per Member State in the future. All attempts have been refused to implement a hierarchy or even to assign to the larger countries permanent Commissioners and the smaller rotating, almost changing occupations. This principle applies for ten years and can be extended unanimously. If it is proven, that is, I think, a good argument, if not, then you can automatically go back to two thirds at a completely equal rotation. Ladies and gentlemen! A week later, we decided on the staff package. Also, Heads of Government are normal mortals and have not made two complicated issues at once. But now there is an overwhelming majority, almost unanimous agreement for Jose Manuel Barroso, the new President of the Commission, who will lead the Commission for the next five years. I would like to say one thing here because I know him well – he has worked with the European People's Party for many years and has been head of government for two years: It's always the same game: Hardly anyone comes, then immediately scratches around him: no charisma, nothing enforced, difficulties at home, and, and, and. Jose Manuel Barroso is one who has long been a professional politician and has made peace in Angola with great effort. He took over his country two years ago and significantly reduced the dramatic budget deficit, reducing the overarching administration and proving leadership and leadership. The fact that he has now organized an excellent European football championship does not belong here, but is also a point that is very good for the Portuguese as a whole. They're still in the semifinals. I would therefore call for this man to be given an advance of confidence, because trust, support from all sides, especially in the interests of the smaller and medium-sized countries, will be needed by the Commission. After his election also corresponds to the majority will of the European population, he will enjoy the full support of Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The same applies to the new Foreign Minister of Europe Javier Solana. He's a proven man, he's a Social Democratic, I've known him for many years. I have already worked very well with him as Foreign Minister. I am looking forward to the continuation of cooperation with him under new perspectives! He will now be both: commissioned by the governments in the Council and at the same time within the Commission, and that, I believe, is a very reasonable cooperation. I should like to thank the many countries that have worked with us, and the Foreign Minister, who has for the first time brought the Central European Partnership to light. It worked really well. Thank you, therefore, to the Foreign Minister, to the team in the Foreign Office and the Federal Chancellery, to the Convention members and to the parliamentarians who have supported us here permanently, ladies and gentlemen. [[It is a pleasure to see the ÖVP and the liberals, as well as to the SPÖ representatives.]] High house! Therefore, I would ask you to support the text of this Constitution, which is authorized in about a month and audited by the legal experts. I would ask you, after the signature likely to take place in Rome in October, to ratify this Treaty as early as possible. This Constitution will actually bring the European Union into line with its role in the larger Europe and in the world. Ladies and gentlemen! At the same time, however, we will also introduce a transformation of the Austrian Federal Government. Two colleagues are sitting new on the government bank, it is Mrs Mag. Karin Miklauch, who will now lead the important Ministry of Justice, and Mr. Deputy to the National Council Mag. Eduard Mainoni, who will work as State Secretary at the Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology. The former Minister of Justice, Dr. Böhmdorfer, and the State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, University Professor Dr. Reinhart Waneck, have been expelled from the government team. I would like to thank both of them very much. They have been in this team for more than four years and have done good work for Austria. And what makes me particularly happy is that this has now also seen the opposition and called for praise here. Only: Sometimes it's better to trust a little in advance than to say afterwards that it's all been great anyway. – Perhaps we can keep it that way with the new colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Politics is not easy, we know, everyone who sits here knows that. No one comes to the world as a minister, as a Secretary of State, as a head of government or as a representative. One has a certain ability to engage in curiosity, professional competence and also political networking – all of this is part of it. But first of all, it is about continuing the successful work that started with this Federal Government 16 months ago with the Angelobung. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It has been carried on a lot, ladies and gentlemen. A large part of the government programme of this legislative period has already been completed or is being implemented, and all those who are now complaining about a standstill are precisely those who are still before the end of the period. a week, the pace that has been too high. How would you like it? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In this first half of the year alone, we decided a tax reform of €3 billion. – A discharge for all taxpayers and for jobs! 2.5 million Austrians are exempt from tax. Families are encouraged, location and jobs are secured. A few weeks ago, we unanimously adopted a Europe-wide single Federal Animal Protection Act, thanks for it. – A model law in which the animals are for the first time recognized as feeling creatures and no longer considered as things or things and in which we have also taken into account the needs of smaller family farms in agriculture. This law is already being observed internationally, and I hope it will also be copied. Or: Criminal law process reform. – For decades a topic, now it is law! The prosecutor is the lord of the preliminary procedure, the security authorities are working on, improvements in legal protection and the protection of victims are of course natural. Or: Parenthood. – A law that does not exist anywhere in the world in this form. A law, which will finally make the compatibility of work and family practice, whereby the concerns of the families and the economy, which may be different, could be connected in a good way. Or – see last plenary session – the great reform, complete reorganisation of the research landscape. – A milestone, by a broad majority, including the Greens as opposition party, carried along, discussed for decades, now law! Professor Felder of the IHS has said that we have become one of the most attractive locations in Europe in this area. Or take as an example the Bundesbahnreform! – Inclusive service law here was an agreement – started a year ago, now concluded – under the expert leadership of the Vice-Chancellor, in which the management of the ÖBB, the Board of Directors, the trade union and the Ministry participated, and thus the company is much better placed in the competition of transport modes. That's how you do it, dear friends! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Or: A week ago, the presentation of the Bundesheer-Reform Commission took place under the expert leadership of Professor Helmut Zilk. – The very large reform of the German army into a modern, contemporary army with many recommendations already adopted unanimously by the National Security Council last Friday! Who says there's a standstill here, he's over-reading, or he's aware of what's going on here. Or: ‘Team 04’, the other construction site in the safety device. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – Federal Minister Strasser has developed a concept for the past decades of overcrowding of police and gendarmerie. The trial operation is already running, ladies and gentlemen, the full operation will be completed in mid-2005. The aim is to ensure efficient human resources for safety in the interests of citizens. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] – Mr Parnigoni, you have never come near a law. That's the difference: We're doing this! The same applies to pension reform and harmonisation. – A year ago, there was an approximation to demographic development by increasing the early retirement age, and the necessary fair harmonisation of all pension systems is now under negotiation. We are very good on the road, as I think, 20, 25 meetings with the social partners, and we are so far that we really hope to be able to present the content even before the summer break. Ladies and gentlemen! There can be no mention of the stopover of reform! The new colleagues come to a fully working and high-pressure team. We look forward to working with them. I wish them strength, success and also happiness in their place of business and hopefully also a little bit of advance berry from the opposition and from the parties of government. The work has not become less. We have just embarked on financial compensation, are in the middle of the health reform, the budget creation for the next time will begin in summer – three important projects. You're invited to work on it.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e2309	I would like to thank the Chancellor of the Federal Republic for his statement and now ask Mr Vice-Chancellor to take the floor. His speaking time is 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e2327	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government Bank! As Vice Chancellor of the Republic of Austria, I am pleased to present to you today two new members of the liberal government team. [[Abg. Oillinger: Are you still happy?]] I would like to start very briefly where the liberals entered the Federal Government, namely in 2000. This was done with the aim of making Austria more just, more modern and safer. [[Abg. Brosz: How many members of the government were there then?]] It was also with the aim of making a reasonable forward-looking policy with heart and mind, in whose focus is clearly man and no one else stands. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It was of course also – and listen to the opposition! – with the aim of finally attacking what has remained for decades, namely necessary reforms to ensure the future of Austria, ladies and gentlemen! It is due to the reform power of the Freedom Party and the Freedom Team of Government and to the fact that these important reforms have also been implemented. [[Ironic cheerfulness with the SPÖ and the Greens]] [[Abg. Oils: Postschacher!]] Think – I already mention examples – of the unfinancing of the pension system due to 30 years of missing social policy. [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Herbert Haupt and Uschi Haubner have led the pension reform – no easy project – leading. We have decided together, as carefully as possible, but at the same time as consistently as necessary. And this is good for the Austrian in the direction of a worthy evening of life. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! But also think about the equality of workers and employees! Think about the concept of finishing-new! – Both a good thing for the working population, and for both, it was also necessary for the FPÖ to enter a federal government after the SPÖ. In particular, this is a particularly remarkable note in the field of equality between workers and employees. But you may also think of a rightful claim, namely the child's allowance, which brings a better reconciliation of work and family, which means massive support for women, and that Austria – and listen now! – through this initiative has become the most family-friendly and youthful country in Europe at all! [[Abg. Marizzi: 50,000 youth unemployed!]] But think also of the disability billions, ladies and gentlemen! It should also be said: Never before has so much been made available to people with disabilities in this country! Thinking But also to the already mentioned second stage of the tax reform! – Overall, after the first, with economic packages that were decided, at the right time, with a relief of €4 billion, the largest tax reform in the Second Republic, a discharge for citizens and a strengthening of the Austrian economic location. – This is how to make economic and civil policy, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Unfortunately, the former State Secretary, Dr. Reinhart Waneck, will no longer be part of the liberal government team. [[Call the Greens:Leader!]] I would therefore like to point out some points of his four-year activity. The work of State Secretary Reinhart Waneck has led to noticeable improvements for patients. [[Abg. Oils: Where?]] Those who have experienced Dr. Waneck in his daily work have simply noticed that Dr. Waneck as a doctor knows what the patient needs and where the shoe really presses. Its negotiations, ladies and gentlemen, have resulted in a significant reduction in the cost of medicinal products, and some structures have been improved and modernised. However, I would also like to mention Dr. Waneck's international contacts, which he has well established and which have helped Austrian companies in the health industry to create many good, interesting jobs. I'm sure of that: It is not possible to list all of Reinhart Waneck's good deeds now, but I would like to thank Dr. Waneck in my capacity as Vice Chancellor, but also as far as my membership of the Freedom Party is concerned, and I would like to thank him very much for his further journey. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! The second innovation in the liberal team concerns the Ministry of Justice. The fact that Dieter Böhmdorfer has done excellent work has also recognized the opposition – late, but still – and the specialist world is also right in this regard and says: Dr. Böhmdorfer was one of the most important and best Justice Ministers in postwar times. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Why does he step back?]] I'm just counting some big acts of Dieter Böhmdorfer: For example, he has enforced the drastic intensification of sexual criminal law; he has achieved life sentence for drug bosses; he has made it possible to modernise the Extraordinary Law; an improvement in the protection of victims in the criminal process is his achievement; a new law against social fraud by sham companies has created Dr. Böhmdorfer – and much more. Thank you very much, Dieter Böhmdorfer, it was a great performance that you put down! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Why did he resign?]] Now, ladies and gentlemen, to the new ones in the Federal Government. The Freedom Party has also called for the first time in Austria to place a minister of justice on the government bank. [[It was a pleasure for the liberals and the ÖVPs.]] At the same time, we were also able to fulfill a desire, in particular, by the divorced Minister of Justice, namely to make a clear rejuvenation of our government team. May. Miklauch is the first female minister of justice in this Republic, the seventh minister in Europe – and of course we wish her a good start! Karin Miklauch can build on what Dieter Böhmdorfer has created or has already begun. May. Mr Miklauch also meant that she would like to present herself to the House today, so to speak, even within my speaking time, which of course I welcome, and that is why I now limit myself accordingly in my remarks and therefore just say: Dear Karin, I know what this is like when you first sit on the government bench. It's a special feeling, maybe also a little mellow feeling, but: Making reforms for Austrian citizens and working for a good future in our country is a beautiful, perhaps the most beautiful feeling at all that you can have in politics! Good for it! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The second new face on the government bank, Mr Mag. Eduard Mainoni, to present in this House, that would be like “carrying owls to Athens,” so I do not want to. Edi Mainoni is all well-known as a Member of this House; last but not least, he was very committed to transport spokespersons of the liberals. May. Mainoni comes from the economy, was a successful manager there. This was very important both to Mrs Haubner and to me as regards the profile of a future Secretary of State. May. In particular, Mainoni will accompany the research reform that we have decided a few days ago and will ensure that rapid and rapid implementation is carried out, thus giving an important impetus to strengthening Austria's economic location. – You too, dear Edi, all the best in the new, surely interesting work! Overall, I am looking forward to re-starting with this renewed team: for our Republic and for the citizens of Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e2541	Now I now grant Mrs. Federal Minister Mag. Karin Miklauchda's word. It has 5 minutes of welcome; The rest of the time would be seven minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e2562	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since the House does not yet know me, it is my concern to give you a brief account of my career. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: We already read that in the newspaper!]] I graduated from Leopold-Franzens-Universität in Innsbruck in January 1988. According to my court practice at the district court Villach and at the Landesgericht Klagenfurt, I was a concipient in a Klagenfurt law firm for three years. Since 1991, I have been working in the Environmental Law Department at the country of Carinthia and until my fishing observation as Minister of Justice for Water Law in the country of Carinthia. I am particularly proud of the excellent quality of the Carinthian lakes and waters. I am a practitioner in the fields of justice and administration. It is important to me – and in this I know with my predecessor – that justice opens up to the citizens of this country. This requires an understandable language and the perceptibility of decisions. Justice policy, ladies and gentlemen of the House, is social policy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It is therefore my personal concern to seek dialogue with judges, prosecutors and the entire non-judicial staff. I am also interested in the continuation of the reforms in the field of victim aid. I'm just calling it the word "sacrifice protection against crime. " [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I see further improvement for the population of our country in the ambitious project of process acceleration in civil processes. My aim is to ensure that private disputes in the courts of first instance cannot last more than one year in the future. [[New congratulations to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I will also accept the all-known problems of increasing numbers of prisoners and the sheltering of prisoners. Social fraud is supposed to be severely punished under my ministry. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] As the first Minister of Justice of the Republic of Austria, I also want to take advantage of the opportunity to bring the issue of gender equality into my work in the sense of gender mainstreaming. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I want to be a Minister of Justice for all citizens of this country. In this sense, I am already looking forward to a good cooperation with you! I intend to have discussions with the judicial and judicial representatives of the parliamentary parties in the next few days, and I hope that they will support them. – Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e2633	We are now entering the debate on these statements. Mr Gusenbauer was the first to speak. Speech time: 15 minutes. . You are at the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e2654	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Chancellor referred to the essential work of a European Constitution, which is indeed of great importance, because it gives the citizens of Europe a common constitution for the first time. It is true that many of the wishes of this Constitution could not be realized. Unfortunately, this Constitution continues to be very transparent in terms of decision-making, and it does not regulate the essential requirements of European policy. But this Constitution is still better than the state before it, and we therefore welcome the decision of this European Constitution very clearly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! However, we cannot ignore the fact that the election of the European Parliament was extremely low – not only in Austria, but also in many other European countries. I think it would be too late for you to ask yourself what you can do before the next election. Instead, at the beginning of the new legislative period of the European Parliament, we need to think about how to bring Europe to Austria and how to get closer to the citizens. I am ready for an open discussion on this subject. Is it not part of the problem that every national election gives people the impression that they are not just elected a parliament, but that they are also determined by a future government? This is not the case, however, especially in Europe. Would it not be better, therefore, if the elections to the European Parliament were to take place at the head of the parties, those candidates for the future office of the President of the Commission, and if this question were not left to the citizens of Europe for weeks behind padded doors, then would it be better to decide on the President of the European Commission in the hands of the citizens of Europe? – That would be a democratization that would certainly bring Europe closer to people, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly, we must also ask ourselves how European policy is being discussed here in the Austrian Parliament. Very often we discuss European policy in the main committee, rarely here in plenary. And we all know that the question of the perception of European policy also depends on the importance of European policy here in the House. I think it would be useful if, for example, the future Austrian Commissioner or the future Austrian Commissioner would be invited to represent the work programme of the EU Commission here in the House, and to discuss this issue with the members of the House, so that European policy becomes part of our work here in the House. [[General condolences.]] Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: The EU Constitution, which is now adopted, will be ratified. And after that, as you hear, there will be popular votes on it in a number of Member States. And the question is: What happens if this referendum is negative in a single country? Will this country then leave the European Union? Will there be renegotiations that will lead to further watering of the Constitution, or will the whole European constitutional process be stopped? I do not think that the European train should be reduced by how the vote is going in a country alone. If you really want a European constitution, then it would be the greatest thing that all European citizens vote on this Constitution at the same time. And if the majority of the states and the majority of European citizens are in favour of the Constitution, then it should be the common European Constitution, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In other words, we are required over the next few months and years if we want Europe to actually become alive for citizens. Mr. Federal Chancellor, you pointed out that with 1. A major step has been taken this year. Yes, a major step has been taken with the enlargement of the European Union by ten Member States. And all in Europe expect the main beneficiaries of this enlargement to be Austria and Germany. I ask you the question: Why do you think that despite this historic date, despite the general assessment that this will be good for Austria in particular, does not want to make such a thing as a start-up mood wider? Does this not perhaps depend on the fact that the reality that people are experiencing is far from this start, that the people who stand in the reservoir every day have the impression that Austria is not prepared for this enlargement, that the people who are looking for work have the impression that their perspective through enlargement will not be better, that the people in Austria have the impression that enlargement is an important step in the future, but that, if the government is not properly prepared for this enlargement, there is no basis for a start-up mood? Mr Bundeskanzler, I say to you: Political responsibility is required here, because it is not possible to talk about it, it must be made politically! This is the expectation that the population has. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Federal Chancellor! They meant that everything had gone so fast in the past, and now the stagnation is being sued. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] Nobody accuses you of not doing anything. No, that's not the accusation. However, because of what you are doing, the problems of our country are not solved, but, in reality, major problems are created first, ladies and gentlemen. This is the problem of this federal government and the balance sheet you have to represent today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, through which much famous university reform has not solved a problem of universities. On the contrary – to stay with your image –: The building site University has been created by your reform. What has been the result of the education policy of the Federal Minister and the cuts in resources in schools? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] – Not a better quality of school, but enormous problems for teachers to teach there today. Mr Bundeskanzler, because of your policy, unemployment in Austria has not been reduced, but has been increased! – This is the problem: that your policy creates the problems and does not solve them, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] And the best thing is that Mr Bartenstein, who has been telling us for months now that nothing can be done against unemployment, just wait for the economic situation to improve, now for the first time with a proposal to the public. And it's very simple: Minister Bartenstein believes that the problem of unemployment is solved by the fact that people work longer and earn less. [[Abg. Grandruck: It's wrong!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! That is the wrong way, that will increase unemployment and not fight it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Pretty slowly the question arises how... – Yes, I already understand your excitement. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You will also be affected by this Bartenstein formula. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! What is the message to the people of recent months? – Pensions will be cut by accident, unemployment will increase, and the Minister of Labour announces that in the future working time will be longer and people will earn little. Is that supposed to create motivation in Austria? My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! What you are doing here is a de-motivation program for the Austrian population and for the Austrian workers. That is the truth of this government's balance sheet. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In this situation, there is a change of government. In fact, the expectation was great. It would have been thought that the Federal Chancellor was taking the opportunity to correct the main weaknesses of his government. For example, he brings a new Minister of Labour, who really takes care of the fight against unemployment. He brings a new Minister of Education, who eliminates the miscarriage of education, or he brings a new Minister of Health or a new Minister of Health, who really takes care of a reform of health. – No, of all this nothing can be seen, it will continue to celebrate the policy that has failed so far. The only thing there is a transformation on the FPÖ side. The general impression of the Austrian population of this government transformation is clear: It does not solve any problem of the FPÖ, it does not solve any problem of the government and it does not solve any problem in our country. That is the record of this change in government, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You have also not said in today's statements how you intend to solve future problems. If you have mentioned some of the reform success, then, I think, it is significant that the biggest reform success has taken place without the federal government. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen: The government's proposal to the Animal Protection Act is miles away from what fortunately the House decided in a four-party agreement. That is, where a reform really made sense, it was not the government proposal, but the work of the Austrian Parliament, and that shows where real reform work can be made useful: here in the House of Lords and not in the black and blue government, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you are rightly giving a positive witness to the work of the Federal Hero Reform Commission, with the former mayor Helmut Zilk at the head, and say that this is a good reform concept – also worked out outside the black and blue government – then I ask myself the question, Mr. Bundeskanzler: How sure you are that this Zilk reform will actually be decided here if your own coalition partner last week decides that this federal reform has not been agreed and not agreed with the FPÖ!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Abg. Grandruck: Where do you live?]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! There is a good proposal, but no guarantee that the current black and blue majority of governments will be able to implement it. That is why, Federal Chancellor: Reforms are becoming more and more without you and not with you! This is the situation in Austria in 2004. If you have talked about the construction sites at the beginning of the construction summer, you can say: Yes, they signal stability, which is stability of stagnation, stability of rising unemployment, stability of greater burden on citizens, stability of pension reduction, stability of the inability to resolve in the health system and stability of prospects for the Austrian youth in the classroom sector. In fact, the Austrian population, ladies and gentlemen, can give up on this kind of stability. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] That is why this change of government is a lost opportunity. You would have had the opportunity to introduce a fundamental change in your policy through this reform of government. This would have been necessary in principle. They have only made a small correction which does not solve the major problems of the country. They played a big chance again.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e2810	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Molterer. 15 minutes speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e2828	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gusenbauer! The general impression that Austria has is: The SPÖ problem is called Gusenbauer – after this speech impressively confirmed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] They seem to me like a red blackseer. They seem to me like a fox to which the grapes hang far too high. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] Mr Gusenbauer, it is one of your many speeches that you have given here in the National Council, where once again no single proposal, no alternative is put on the table. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] So, I think, Mr Gusenbauer, if you stick to this strategy, you will stay where you are now sitting and are obviously very well withdrawn. Good luck with this strategy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links== In June, in this House, yes, as I believe, a debate has been held in all European Parliaments: the great concern about the low level of participation. All the political forces in this country, including all who are represented here in Parliament, have asked themselves the question: What can we do, what must we do about this low participation in democracy? It was clear to us, indeed, that Europe needs new answers, new answers for the citizens of this continent, new answers above all because of Europe since 1st century. This year, May is another, a bigger, a new Europe. We all agreed that the European Constitution can give exactly those new answers, that Europe is acting and that Europe is giving answers to citizens where the citizens are pushing the shoe. Ladies and gentlemen! I am proud that this European Constitution is now on the table, this good new European Constitution, which for the first time provides nearly 500 million people on this continent with the same rules for democracy, freedom and the market economy. That is why it is a good Constitution, and as a People's Party we are fully convinced of this Constitution, we are saying about this new European Constitution. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It builds on the good work of the Convention and has been substantially improved thanks to the excellent work of the Heads of State or Government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] Mr Oellinger, we will certainly discuss this, not only today but also in the future. I am firmly convinced that the solid foundation of the Convention is a cause for the success of this new Constitution, no doubt. But just as important is the solid work of the Heads of State and Government, especially our Federal Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel, who has played a key role in this issue for success. [[Abg. Oil: Where?]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Why a key role? – Because German Chancellor Dr. Schüssel, on the one hand, has acted as a voice tube for the small and medium-sized countries in the European Union and, on the other hand, because the initiative of our Foreign Minister at the Regional Partnership has established the basis for Austria to join forces in this regional partnership for this European Constitution. I therefore expressly thank Chancellor Dr. Schüssel and Foreign Minister Benita Ferrero-Waldner for this success – a success for Austria, but above all a success for Europe, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] You have asked, Mr Oellinger, Mr Van der Bellen, also in the last discussion, whether there is a Gusenbauer: Where are the improvements that are now set out in the new European Constitution? I would like to give you a few examples because it is also important for citizens to know this particular side. It is not about a question of some constitutional judges, but about a profound political question, on which it is about how living together on this continent will shape for all people in the future. First: I believe that the Constitution, which has been drawn up on the basis of the Convention and which is now being improved, guarantees the same right for all Member States. Whether or not these are smaller, medium or larger countries: All countries are equal in this European Union. This is a very, very important question for us – therefore: This new proposal of the Commission's composition also after 2014 ensures this equality of opportunity for all states. Secondly, The question of subsidiarity and proximity to citizens. For us, for example, here in the House, for the National Council, but also, for the Federal Council, for example, the legitimation of the complaint is, if we believe that the principle of subsidiarity has been violated, a very crucial question for the democratic rules of the European Union. Our rights are strengthened, as is the law of the European Parliament, for example, in relation to the EU budget. Or, for example: The clear distribution of competence is an important perspective for all of us and for the citizens, for example the opportunity of a European popular desire already mentioned – something new that has not yet been given. Thirdly, I think that this new constitution will bring a strengthened Europe. Just think of the clear leadership structures that the European Union has with this new constitution, but also of the clear rules for decisions: There will be more majority decisions, but in a way that ensures that the democratic balance within the European Union – which is especially important from the point of view of a small country – is not only in order but also in our interests. Fourthly, it is a social Europe founded by this new constitution. Just think about the anchoring of the social market economy, the anchoring of social dialogue, the social partners in the European Union. That's something completely new. The Austrian model of social partnership, if you want to do so, has been transferred to Europe – well and correctly – as well as the anchoring of fundamental rights or, for example, the objective of full employment and the social clause as a horizontal obligation that all decisions taken by Europe should be assessed according to this scale of the social clause. [[Abg. Dr. One: For “high employment”!]] Of course – and this is the fifth point, my Ladies and gentlemen – this Constitution brings that sensitivity – and also here thanks and congratulations to our Federal Chancellor! – that important Austrian concerns have been taken into account. I say quite frankly to you: This is not a “Kantönli spirit”, no, but it is the legitimate interest of a country to impose on its citizens in Europe the interests in the well-intentioned sense, for example in safeguarding our water resources, for example on the question of mountain regions – a life affair for our fellow citizens in Austria – or for animal and environmental protection, but also on the question of neutrality as it knows our constitution. [[Complaints with the EIA and representatives of the Free Trade Unions]] But we must not rest on all these laurels, but we must now bring this constitution close to the citizens and convince the citizens of it. Mr Gusenbauer! I agree with you on the assessment of the referendum: A referendum makes sense when it is carried out across Europe. A referendum makes sense across Europe when the rules of the game are known for the results of this referendum, so that everyone knows what it is all about. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the decision on human resources at the head of the European Commission is also an essential and crucial signal. It speaks for Austria's role in the European Union, it speaks for the performance of this federal government and it speaks for the personality of our Federal Chancellor that Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel played a key role in this regard too. – I congratulate Mr Bundeskanzler! Only those who have quality are in conversation for this function! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Have you noticed the change of government?]] But it is good for Austria and good for the future perspective of this federal government, that under the leadership of the Federal Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel can continue the successful work for Austria – success work, which I would like to define in three major objectives: First: Austria must be strengthened in international competition. This is the prerequisite for work and full employment, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But we will only be strengthened internationally in competition if we have the courage to change. [[Abg. Oillinger: That's why there's a transformation of the government!]] [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] Mr Gusenbauer, we simply differ: We have the courage to change! We have decided the Uni reform with our votes – you voted against. We have adopted the R & D strategy with our votes – you voted against. We have decided with our votes on the tax reform, the discharge of the economy and the workers – you voted against. We have decided to reform the Austrian Federal Railways with our votes – you voted against. [[Abg. Oils: Postschacher!]] [[Abg. Oils: Postschacher!]] [[Abg. Reheis: You don't need to be proud of this performance!]] We have, for example, decided on the necessary investments in infrastructure with our votes – you voted against. – You lack the courage to the future, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The second big goal: We must maintain social balance and social balance in this country. Balance in social policy, balance in justice only exists if we have the courage to change, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Oillinger: The working hours!]] Changing because society is changing is a prerequisite for ensuring social balance in this country in the future, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We have this courage to change: We have voted in favour of the pension reform – you have voted against it. We have decided with our votes the parental age – you voted against. When it comes to pension harmonisation and health reform, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, you will, of course, be on the test if you have the courage to change or if, as in other areas, you lack courage for the future. [[Abg. Oil: Yes?- Oh, my God!]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Parent]] [[Abg. Oillingers: You're on the test stand!]] The third major question of this federal government, ladies and gentlemen, is to give security to people in this country. To give security also means to have the courage to change. Therefore, with our votes, ladies and gentlemen, the German army reform is implemented and implemented with our votes team04. We have decided on asylum law – you voted against it. We have decided on the points of judicial reform – you voted against in many areas, because you lack the courage for the future. [[Abg. Oils shake the head.]] Proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive on the I would like to thank my colleague Dr. Böhmdorfer for his work in the judicial resort. He has set signs, signs that have initially been controversial. I recall that seven requests for mistrust have at least been made by Dieter Böhmdorfer. Now, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, I hear very different sounds. Please measure what you said at the beginning with what you said now, and please change your prejudice to judgment! The actions are the decisive and not what you have in prejudice, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would also like to thank Mr Waneck, who has worked to lay the foundations for the successful health reform. [[Abg. Oils: Which one?]] I wish the new Minister of Justice and the Secretary of State all the best and good luck in working in this Federal Government, which has clear objectives: [[Abg. Oillinger: Where is the health reform?]] Strengthen Austria in competition, maintain social balance and provide security. This federal government, ladies and gentlemen, is changing this federal government. With Wolfgang Schüssel at the head, this Federal Government will remain unobstructed and consistently adhere to these goals and, in the interests of Austria, implement these objectives. All the good of the new colleague and the new colleague!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e3149	The next speaker is Mr Van der Bellen. 15 minutes speaking time. – Mr Commissioner, you are on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e3182	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! “The Federal Government is starting through!” – The political asphalt is already quite black from this eternal start. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] – Yes, Black is a good color, though only when the wheels are turning through; otherwise it will not do anything. [[Demonstratetive applause by ODP MPs]] I made a small list last night – and this list may not be complete – how often I have heard this here in the House: A minister resigns, thanks for the excellent work – and the Federal Government “starts”. Federal Minister Krüger resigns, has done excellent work in the few weeks he had – the Federal Government “starts through”! [[Abg. Parnigoni: Nine days, colleague Van der Bellen!]] Ms. Federal Minister Sickl resigns; she is thanked by the Federal Government, by the ÖVP and the FPÖ, for the excellent work – and the Federal Government Schüssel “starts through”! Federal Minister Schmid resigns; he is thanked for his excellent work – and the Federal Government – Schüssel I was then, I think, “starts through”! Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Forstinger shall resign; ÖVP and FPÖ thank her for the excellent work she did not do – and the Federal Government – Schüssel/Riess-Passer back then – “starts through”! Vice chancellor Riess-Passer resigns – but with a certain delaying effect – thanks to her for the excellent work – and the Federal Government, then already bowl II, steps... – no, does not step back, but “starts through”! – It is very difficult to keep the overview. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the Greens and the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Wittauer: There were new elections between them, you have to say that too!]] Federal Minister Reichhold resigns; FPÖ and ÖVP thank you for the excellent work – and “start through”! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: There only the greens laugh! But otherwise it's not funny! That's a boring speech!]] State Secretary Rossmann – FPÖ is resigned. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This is a boring speech!]] – That’s absolutely boring! I absolutely agree with you, Mrs Colleague. [[Lively cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] That's it! In French they say “Déjà vu”, I think: Ten times, eleven times “Déjà vu”! I already mentioned Rossmann. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You should have thought more, Professor Van der Bellen!]] – State Secretary Waneck resigns; thank you today for the excellent work he has done in his place of business – and Vice chancellors and Federal Chancellors “start”! The asphalt smokes again, Mr. Cot stupidly from the ÖVP! [[Abg. May. Molterer:... tires!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: One can see the economic professor in this speech!]] Minister of Justice Böhmdorfer resigns; thanks, as today, for the excellent work that Minister Böhmdorfer has done in these four years – almost four years, about four years – and the Federal Government advises! – “Start through”! [[Call to the Greens: “Start by”!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Well prepared!]] – Molterer doesn't believe his ears. Minister Grasser, did I stand there... – That must be a mistake. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Although Minister Grasser has resigned, he has been thanked for his excellent work, but somehow he has managed to... – “start through”. “Starting” he managed. [[Call to the ÖVP: Is the shame already out?]] Vice-Chancellor Head – I have not mentioned him yet – has resigned; he has been thanked for his excellent work as Vice-Chancellor – and the Federal Government is “starting through”! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That is not worthy of you!]] What's our proposal? – This is really original: Klubobmann Molterer has also assembled to Klubobmann Gusenbauer that the SPÖ should make proposals. – This is truly original that the opposition to the exchange and subsequent start-up of the Federal Government should make proposals. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the Greens and the SPÖ]] Really original! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: An excellent speech!]] There is always the debate at this “start-up” in these constantly new focusses: Should we give 100 days or 90 days or 110 days already? – Ms Minister for Justice, this is one thing: [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger:...! In addition, we have the Turbo!]] I'm actually willing to admit these 100 days in this case, but I'm going to be after my numeration. You also understand that this is a conditional commitment, because if after all these withdrawals and “start-ups” we always give 100 days already, then the Federal Government is under a permanent period of grace and the opposition could now go on holiday. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] But you still have some time: The strategy of the FPÖ – I find this point quite brilliant – was that it has now taken office at the end of June. That is because July and August are usually pretty quiet anyway, that you can probably expect 60 days. [[Abg. Lentsch: But only with your party! We're working!]] I don't guarantee much longer. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: We are always there for the citizens! We're not going to have a summer break!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is not only about the FPÖ, that is the German Chancellor Schüssels government! It's not the first edition, that's the second edition! The first edition of ÖVP and FPÖ failed in September 2002, provided I remember quite well – the previous withdrawals, re-entrys and “start-ups” were not expected. Quite consciously, the ÖVP chose a second edition of this government about 15 months ago – with a FPÖ reduced to a third, however; my condolences, Mr Scheibner! . and at the moment, the ÖVP is trying to create such a sort of single government, as far as I understand it correctly, with the attempts to back and forth the FPÖ through the award of posts, as last of the President of the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. Scheibner: Don't exaggerate! Don't exaggerate!]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The ÖVP is trying, as it were, to suggest stability for itself, while the only unstable part of the Federal Government is the liberals. – I do not share this view! The Federal Government is a coalition government, and stability is not shared in this form: They're going from crisis to crisis, that's all. As it is ruled, it was to be heard in “openly said” last night, which was quite interesting, by no one other than Mr Böhmdorfer, highly praised by the government bank and colleagues of the government parties. It was really very interesting how – for a politician absolutely unusually – he gave honest information about what caused the great frustration in him: for example, to get the results of the European Union Intergovernmental Conference on Monday in the Federal Government – but only the cover sheet! [[Rejoicing with representatives of the SPÖ.]] And the next day, 10 minutes before the decisive session, you'll actually get a 100-page convolut – from 100 pages! – which you will then study and cancel in 10 minutes. [[Abg. Großruck: Can you make any suggestions, colleague Van der Bellen? Make suggestions! - You don't have one!]] – If this is the nature of the government’s course of action, actually the sole government of the ÖVP, which has apparently joined the FPÖ over the years, I must say: Well, if it's fun for you to enjoy, dear colleagues from the FPÖ! My way, my ideal idea of governing isn't that! But vice chancellor Gorbach seems to be playing there. As I can see from the “profile” of today, Vice Chancellor Gorbach was even one of those who operated Böhmdorfer’s discharges. Böhmdorfer was indeed annoying in the government! It is true that we Greens agreed with him in just a few points, but that as ministers over time – now I am subtracting the years 2000 and 2001, say we have developed a profile – one has to say: Yes, he did! Not our profile – that would be even more beautiful – but the profile of the FPÖ. And this minister, who will be replaced – “with warm thanks”, with statements such as “fine work”, “wonderful”, and “now we can finally start through” – on how to take away the media, not least of the vice-chanc Gorbach. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Crocodile tears!]] And replacement – “good planning”, “predominant strategy” – you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, did not find it so quickly; that was just before you went to Federal President Kletil for fishing. This is really “masterly planning” on the FPÖ side, but also on the ÖVP side. The FPÖ crisis could be said: What's the big deal with the greens? – But they are in the Federal Government! [[Abg. Scheibner: The Greens are not yet!]] That's not any bowling club – at least not yet. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the SPÖ.]] That's why we have to worry: What is it for a leadership structure whose improvement does not and does not make you there, with a vice-chanc, who does not have a party responsibility, with a party leader – from Saturday or Sunday, if I have it right in mind – but who is the State Secretary in the Federal Government, by the way, to a minister who has the biggest goats to answer – or should we be careful: perhaps the second largest goats, but at least with the largest goats – which this Federal Government has shot? [[Abg. Scheibner: What ‘ goats ’?]] These were the debacle around the main association, the accident pension tax, the ambulance fees and – last but not least – the pension reduction reform. All of this has Federal Minister Head of State, partly Deputy Head of State. Secretary of State Haubner is pleased to continue his work in his shadow. But with all due respect, Mrs Haubner – at the moment she is not in the hall – I do not believe that it is the task of a member of a federal government to devote itself exclusively to party work. There is something else, I would have thought, namely, to rule wisely, but with a reasonable minister. – We thank you for the excellent work, we say now. If the main thing is gone, the Federal Government will finally be able to get through. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] By the way, my diagnosis is not that original, as State Secretary Haubner himself said literally in the “press hour” on Sunday that the current arrangement is not the leadership model of the future. [[Rejoicing with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] – I do not know what the leadership model of the future is for the FPÖ, nor do I have any interest in it, but I took very much interest in yesterday’s issue of the “Open Say” programme that the Freemans are the true advocates of the basic democratic principle. [[Abg. Dolinschek: The Greens certainly not!]] - Well, if you follow us there. How should a government party gain profile, how should the Federal Government stabilise itself if the FPÖ continues to kneel before the ÖVP? They operate thematically and responsibly. They give up the State Secretariat at the Ministry of Health, there are major reforms, but you do not seem to want to touch them, that would only be annoyed, and create an additional State Secretariat in that ministry, which the Vice-Cancellor already has, just for his discharge. Mr Mainoni has so far acted as a transport speaker – but let us leave it that way, despite the problems of their constant extension. That's a government party's responsibility? Böhmdorfer is the only No-Sager, as the only one with profile in this Federal Government is removed on the operation of the vice-chancer. [[Abg. Großruck: How many requests for distrust did you make against him?]] Great, there are several FPÖs, that's obvious. The FPÖ of earlier times no longer exists. But I – once again – feel that only in that you are members of a federal government that has to represent and rule the Republic of Austria, and you do not! [[Abg. May. Molterer: And do the same!]] We are dealing with the internal problems of this government party every week, and you cannot agree that this is just the problem of FPÖ. [[Abg. Wittauer: This is your favorite job!]] This is the problem of ÖVP as well, Mr Molterer. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] It is also the problem of the ÖVP, and you will be going down together with this ship that is already known. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's what you've been saying for years!]] On questions of EU reform. The government parties did not have a heart to make a debate in the National Council exclusively for government reform – that was even too thin for you. That's why you said: Well, we're talking a little bit about government reform and a little bit about the Intergovernmental Conference! – As far as the Greens are concerned, my colleague Eva Lichtenberger, who changed to the European Parliament in July, will comment on these issues. – Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e3643	Next, Mr Scheibner comes to the speaker's desk for 15 minutes. . You are at the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e3668	What do you mean, Mr Parnigoni? [[Abg. Parnigoni: It will be!]] Mr Parnigoni, I am still easier with you, even in the FPÖ, where you can be sure! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Colleague Van der Bellen, it is a pity that you have now given your colleague Lichtenberger the competence in the EU questions, because I would have liked to discuss your opinion on the EU Constitution. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Have we already, we have the often!]] Too bad. It was very nice to listen to you, but for a discussion you also need some content. [[Call:Start]] Getting started alone is too little as a content – we may find ourselves there. That is why I would have liked you to wait somewhere in the hangar and hope that the door to the hangar will open once and that a little kerosene will come into the tank, so that you can also fly off, expect you to bring some content to the EU or also to the government policy, Mr Van der Bellen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This is the problem of the SPÖ and the Greens – I understand that – who had hoped that it was finally so far that they could sit on this government bank again and for the first time again, that they finally have this opportunity, because it “traps” this German government, in good Vienna. But unfortunately no, Mr Van der Bellen! [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Just so on!]] You can all travel on vacation, all the concerns that you have to change something are unfounded – thank God, I say, also for Austria. In spite of its unmistakable calls, this government is not only able to work, it is also setting up initiatives, not only in the form of beautiful Sunday speeches, but also very concrete initiatives for the people of Austria. [[Abg. Oillinger: Construction sites set up!]] Especially now that you are talking about everything, the second part of this country's biggest tax reform will enter into force in a few days, a discharge package for the economy will enter into force, Mr Van der Bellen, Mr Gusenbauer, which is necessary to make Austria – if we discuss EU issues – competitive. This creates jobs that guarantee jobs for the future, not your speeches that you give the best, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Where were your initiatives in this regard? Where at least was your consent? Why are you, Mr Gusenbauer, against the fact that, in a few days, the penalty rate will be increased by 15 percent? Why, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, Mr Van der Bellen, are you against the fact that we are providing €250 million in addition for the taxpayer that family initiatives are being taken, that there is a surcharge in the single payment for families? Why are you against the fact that we have given the greatest relief to the people involved in small and medium-sized incomes? – You should once argue why you have opposed this discharge offensive of the Federal Government, and not all bad words! As Mr Van der Bellen asked whether it was so funny in the government, I would also like to give him an answer. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Van der Bellen, I say to you: It was not funny to take over a shredded pile with a record deficit in 2000 and to clean up this shredded pile! [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: From the ÖVP!]] But this federal government has succeeded in rehabilitating not only this chaos. If we are already talking about government reforms, you should also be told: The record of Chancellor Vranitzky, to consume 20 ministers in the shortest time and to do nothing about it, will certainly not break, because we would have to go a very long way and could still start many times – and you could often replace content with nice cabaretist deposits. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Another point: I am annoyed by these staff discussions – one should be open and honest; yes, there you can laugh, at least I admit, ladies and gentlemen – that all the positive initiatives of the Austrian Federal Government, also of the Parliament and of the government parties can be fully covered by the fact that these undisclosed staff discussions also cover your inconsistency in all matters. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: They can't laugh more than they can!]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: The Moser must be covered!]] [[Abg. Elder: Moser!]] We will come to the former FPÖ club director – that is what you want him to do – Moser will still come to speak today. But that is your mechanism, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens and the SPÖ, that you do everything bad first, even the perso- ners, quite deeply grasping the box like Members of the Pilz, who is not in the hall now. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: Always make things bad!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Permanently approach!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: He's never here!]] He is rarely in the House at all, when it comes to certain issues, but people are making bad, discrediting, he can all do that again! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: He can do that!]] That, ladies and gentlemen, let us accuse you of: First of all, you do everything bad – down to the personal level – and then say: Wasn't really that bad! Minister of Justice Böhmdorfer, I heard today, was the only one with profile – that said colleague Van der Bellen. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Freeman!]] Justice spokesperson Jarolim also cried after Minister Böhmdorfer tears. – Ladies and gentlemen! Have you forgotten that the opposition has filed seven requests for distrust against this successful Minister of Justice? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] Mr Jarolim, seven motions for censure! Was all this just oppositional practice, or was it serious? Or do you really need so long, for four years, ladies and gentlemen from the opposition, until You finally insist that they are good people who send the liberals to the Austrian Federal Government? [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is the same with the President of the Court of Auditors. We have heard all of this from the President-in-Office of the Council. [[Abg. Oils: Why are the good people being replaced if they are to be so good?]] A party political occupation! Packaging! That is immense, a party officer is placed in this position! - And now? It is precisely that the last National Council debate did not include, in fact, shackles of roses on the government bank. Now it is said that the successor will have to be measured at this great performance of President Fierce. Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Dr. Moser will have to measure on this, and he will also measure on it, because I am convinced that we are with Dr. Moser in the main committee chose the best qualified candidates for this. Do not discredit candidates before they have been able to prove what they are doing for the office. Then, when they resign when the term of office ends to spread praise, that's too late. We need a constructive – certainly also critical – cooperation and cooperation between all parties in this House. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the next two and a half years, many important tasks will be assigned to this Federal Government, such as the pension reform now. And we also expect from you, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, constructive cooperation and cooperation from the social partners. Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we can, if we all want to – even if you want it – to agree together, as in the Animal Protection Act, on this important reform, so that in the future there will only be a single pension system, fair and fair, for all employees in Austria. In this case, put off the party-political scams! At first, the workers' chamber elections were not allowed to go further, then the EU election, then other things that were so important were any country elections, and all this has prevented you from working dynamically on one result. Put off the party political scams, work together with us for this important reform! That's our appeal to you. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If we are in the success of the Austrian Federal Government, which, as I have already said, may be concealed by some staff discussions, then we should not forget – the Minister of Justice will also have to make an important contribution to the security of our country in the future – that since 1. The new asylum law is in force on May of this year; of course, it is also against the votes of SPÖ and Greens. It was unfortunately, I say, also where a project that some in Austria might wish to have started, namely Black-Green, in Upper Austria, was immediately opposed as unconstitutional. We have decided to thank God here, and there have been since 1. May see a massive decline in the illegal violations of asylum seekers and also a massive decline in asylum applications, because now only someone in Austria can challenge an asylum procedure that has real grounds for asylum and has not already had the opportunity to initiate this procedure in a neighbouring country. This is consistent policy, which is also consistent liberal manuscript in this Federal Government, and that will be the case in the next two years, even if you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, wish otherwise. But I can guarantee you that. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mrs. Federal Minister, we still need action. Minister of Justice Böhmdorfer has set up many initiatives, but, for example, in the fight against drug crime, we must continue to work consistently with the Minister of the Interior to ensure that all those involved in crafting our youth with drugs, with this temptation, build the future! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We must also ensure that this imbalance between violent offences and economic crimes is finally eliminated. It must not be a cavalier's crime if, I know, small robberies come to be violent against children, violence against women. That can't be a cavalier's crime! This is where the full hardness of criminal law has to be dealt with. Of course, we also expect – you have announced, Mrs. Justice Minister – that a number of initiatives will be taken here in the area of citizens' proximity. Ladies and gentlemen! If we are trying to get closer to the citizen, I would like to take a little more time than Mr Van der Bellen, to address the EU issues here, too, because the proximity to the citizen, I believe, is one of the biggest deficits in the European Union. We now thank God for a new EU constitution, as we can see a lot of positive things, only the fact that there is this Constitution at all – this alone is an important success – and, of course, there are also a number of sensible administrative measures. There is also a clear commitment – including that of security policy – that there must be a common effort in the fight against terrorism, that this is not a national matter, but that one must jointly, in solidarity with this threat. There is also an important signal on the principle of unanimity on essential issues – but many issues remain open, for example in connection with democracy, as is the case with referendums at EU level on important issues, for example with a referendum on this Constitution itself. Why fear the instruments of direct democracy in the European Union so much? It is precisely the withdrawal of so many people in Europe that shows that the wrong way has gone. The EU must not be a Europe of bureaucrats! The EU must not be a Europe of lobbyists, but it must finally become a Europe of people! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Then we will have a higher vote and will also find a European identity. Ladies and gentlemen! We're going to have a lot of things to do here. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: The mill will do this with the European idea!]] Yes. Mrs Lichtenberger, you will be able to prove in the European Parliament in the future whether, as we have always seen it and called for, you are a representative of Austrian and Austrian interests in Brussels, or whether you think, as your representatives in Brussels have done in the past, that you must represent everything you believe to be understood by the Austrians. That's the wrong way, that's what we're telling you! We want Austrian representatives in Brussels, who are primarily associated with their own population and their own interests. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I also felt it was a mistake that we were not honest at this summit and said about the round of enlargement: We have now achieved a great round of enlargement, but we must do so first, and next rounds of enlargement are simply not possible now, even with countries that are still very, very, very far away from what we expect from a member country of the European Union. We have made Turkey hope again, which is not feasible from my point of view. This is not the honesty one would expect in a European partnership. Ladies and gentlemen! That is why we hope that, as well as before this transformation, this Federal Government will be taking a dynamic and active stand for the interests of the Austrians who are addressing many important projects, including pension reform, health reform, including changes in the Austrian security system, together with the Austrian Parliament, and that this Federal Government, in Europe and also all Members, Mrs Lichtenbergerer, in the European Parliament, will assume this responsibility according to the motto: Austria first in Europe!, the responsibility to build a common Europe on the awareness of the population, but be careful that the lobbyists and bureaucrats do not go beyond our interests. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: This is an absolutely “successful” model when all of this is done!]] That's what we'd expect. All good for the new members of the government, including the Secretary of State Mainoni, they will have our support – the support of the opposition will probably take them off, but the responsibility for Austria is obviously something different than to see its own party interests in the foreground. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: No, it won't leave us!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e4021	The next speaker was Mr Dr. One. Speech time: 8 minutes. – Mr Commissioner, you are on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e4040	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me begin by saying a few words about the European Constitution, which has now been adopted. Let me begin by saying to you, ladies and gentlemen, that what the Heads of State and Government did on 18 November. On June 1, 2004, a slightly more than 100-page amendment to the Convention proposal was adopted. And it's worth looking at what they've changed. I must confess to you, ladies and gentlemen, for the first time I am glad to see that the rulers are really far from the wishes of the people, because that is the only reason why the central achievements of the draft Constitution, which the Convention has presented, have not been damaged. Ladies and gentlemen! Would you really consider it a major concern for citizens to regulate the weighting of votes as it has now been regulated by the Heads of State and Government? Faith Are you really interested in this? Faith Do you really think that the shift in the reduction of the European Commission from 2009 to 2014 was the very central concern of people? – You don’t really think that’s the truth! Do you really think it is particularly close to the citizen when, in the course of the deliberations among the Heads of State or Government, you also eliminate the few instruments that we could agree on in the Convention for the Better Fighting of Transboundary Crime or worsen them so much that they can no longer be applied? Or do you think that you simply eliminate the provisions, the few and weak provisions we have made in the Convention to combat cross-border tax fraud? - You can't be serious! Mr Bundeskanzler, this list was allowed to continue. It is a good thing, then, that the Heads of State and Government have looked after questions that are not citizens, but they have also caused damage to this Constitution and to its present draft. However, there are enough reasons – and I would like to say this clearly today and here – to say yes to what has come out. This is essentially due to the fact that the European Parliament is being strengthened and thus the people directly elected by the citizens to represent their interests in Europe – not country interests, but the interests of concrete people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The second is the following: Of course, it is also worth the fact that the European Charter of Fundamental Rights, which is legally binding and legally enforceable, will finally lead to a legal anchorage of the European Charter of Fundamental Rights, Human Rights and Citizens' Rights at European level. These are the two reasons why we say a very clear yes to this Constitution and to its adoption, because the strengthening of the European Parliament at the same time has the hope that the kind of pitiful cow trade, which means the dispute of the Heads of Government on matters of power each time, may be overcome in favour of the interests of the citizens. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] These interests, ladies and gentlemen, are primarily concerned with creating work through a common and strong economic policy. The aim is to combat crime effectively and jointly, to combat tax and social dumping in the interests of social security and in the interests of financing the European and Austrian welfare states. Ladies and gentlemen! But today we are not only discussing the question of the European Constitution, we are also discussing a new transformation of the black and blue government. I am a little surprised and surprised, especially ladies and gentlemen, at the freedom of movement that you think you can overcome your crisis by replacing the Minister of Justice. It has already been said a lot about this. Mr Molterer – perhaps I may take a short time Your attention is gaining – you have wondered that the Social Democrats have recognized Mr Böhmdorfer in this way. You haven't been able to understand the political judgment the last time I spoke. And the political judgment is that we do not agree with the reforms that Bohemian people had in mind. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ as well as by Dr. Gabriela Moser and Mag. Stoisits.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Only a dead Indian is a good Indian!]] But it is indisputable that Böhmdorfer was one of the strongest freer figures, and it is indisputable that he was able to lead the Ministry of Justice. And this cannot be said by any of the remaining and even not by some of the already resigned freedom ministers. That's the difference. For us, it is surprising that you replace the most relatively powerful freedomable figure and believe that you can overcome the freedom crisis. But let me conclude by saying: I think, Mr Chancellor, that you should look forward to further government reforms in the current government period. [[Abg. Wittauer: This is not your problem!]] A survey with the most qualified tax experts that took place today comes to the conclusion that Minister Grasser's attempt to clean up for the benefit – more precisely: for the donation – by the industrial association is not successful. Federal Chancellor! They will have to think about a successor to Minister Grasser's thoughts. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Let me give you a second example: The Minister for Labour and Economic Affairs Bartenstein, who has never had anything else to say for four years in the notification of unemployment figures, is hoping that soon it will not go on that way, but that it will be better, just the same Federal Minister Bartenstein, who is responsible for employment and the economy, now - after four years of constantly rising unemployment - to propose that work time should be extended, because we do not work long enough, so that those who already have little to do with the stress of work have to work even longer and the others still have no work. – Congratulations, Minister of Labour! You're ready for the discharges! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The list I have now made can be continued, ladies and gentlemen. It's not about painting black here. It's not about making people bad here either. It is about finally drawing conclusions from a missing policy to the detriment of the Austrian population. That's what it was about today.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e4126	Next, Mrs. Dr. Fekter speaks to us for 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e4144	Mr President. Dear Chancellor Dr. Schüssel! - He's in the house. – Mr. Gorbach! I would particularly like to welcome the two new members of the government, Mr Mag. Mainoni and Ms Mag. Miklutsch. First of all, I would like to replicate the start-up philosophy of government reform presented by Mr Van der Bellen. Mr Van der Bellen, there are now only six seconds of boxing stops in Formula 1 and they are used to optimize racing. We are the Formula 1 here in this Federal Government, namely powerful, exciting and equipped with great problem-solving capacity! [[Abg. Oillinger: You compare the government with...?]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: Because you're going in the circle!]] [[Abg. Ollinger: Formula 1 is “circuiting”!]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to accept a real correction. At the end of his speech, he claimed that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour had called for an extension of working time. - That's clearly wrong. The Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour has spoken of working time flexibility, which does not necessarily mean lengthening of working time. That he's been mis-quoted here, I can't do anything for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Now for government reform. Let me begin with my speech to the predecessor of the new Federal Minister Mag. Mr Miklauch, Minister of Justice other than Böhmdorfer, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. I am quite surprised how Minister Böhmdorfer is praised out of service today. It is true, however, that the judicial policy in the government under Chancellor Schüssel, both under Cusp I and Schüssel II, will thus enter history as a major reformary in the field of justice. Never before has there been such a wealth of redefinitions in the judicial system with conservative, bourgeois manuscript. Think, for example, of the law of childhood with the common care! That was the first big reform. Already 80 percent of divorce parents choose the common care as a model for their children. This would never have been possible with the socialists. Madam President, in the great coalition, Mr Prammer said: Only over my body will there be a common care after divorce. That is why we are glad that this coalition government has so much shared in judicial policy so far. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The cooperation with Federal Minister Böhmdorfer was very constructive and efficient for us by the ÖVP. I thank him very much for this. He was a great reformer – that has already been mentioned today – with enormous implementation and high impact. He took over and implemented the first government agreement in 2000. The second government agreement has already been intensive in its own form and is now largely implemented, or the implementation is at least in good preparation. As measured by his work results, the seven mistrust requests filed by the opposition at the beginning of his term of office, or the unjustly blackmailing of his person by the “three wise men” at the time of his sentence, actually seem ridiculous today and like an intrigued scourge. In the era of Böhmdorfer there was a ground-breaking rental law, a new housing property law, a modern antitrust law with a competition authority and a controlling antitrust attorney, a major reform in the Extraordinary Dispute Act so that the maintenance regulations are resolved more quickly, a new, modern civil process order for faster procedures, a so-called century work, and the Home Residence Act, by which we guarantee home residents legal minimum standards. This is now also a model for other European countries. The vast majority of the laws in the judicial committee are also agreed by the opposition. I also thank the opposition for this constructive work. Two thirds of the decisions fall there unanimously or in a multi-party consensus with at least one opposition party. The opposition has not contributed to the great criminal process reform, a century work, and the electronic investigation methods for the executive. The opposition has also voted against criminal intensification of drug offences and sexual offences. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: That's wrong!]] There is left opposition ideology, namely for drug liberalisation and for decriminalisation of criminal offenders, miles away from the ÖVP FPÖ government work. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] Mrs. Miklauch, Minister of State! I hope that you will not have in your mind drug liberalisation and decriminalization of criminal offenders, such as in commercial theft. They would not find a majority in the ÖVP either. Dr. Böhmdorfer has you, Mrs. Mag. Miklauch, a well-run place transferred. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, this is also outstanding for the Federal Government, which is that official handovers are carried out correctly and objectively. It is not as we experienced in 2000 when some socialist ministers left chaos and refused to carry out a proper handover. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Who was in the big coalition at the time?]] At the time, there were tear-out telephone lines, useless computers and no transfer of the resorts. The team around German Chancellor Schüssel is very different from socialist governments. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The attitude towards government work and the necessary reforms, not merely the preservation of power, is characterised by this Federal Government. Therefore, the important task of research and innovation has been upgraded with a new State Secretariat. I will miss Mr Mainoni in the Committee on Justice and I would like to congratulate you, Mr State Secretary, on your new task. We still have work ahead of us, we are modernizing sustainable. We're changing because: Only those who change can preserve good. - A quote from our Federal Chancellor. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Oh, call at the SPÖ.]] It is true that the share of older people in society is increasing, that we are trying to secure jobs, because: Only what makes work is social. We want to become the most child-friendly country in the world. The population has a right to safety. It is necessary to combat crime and make the perpetrators firm. Austria is not a self-service shop for pocket and shop thieves or for raids in apartments and raids on women and older people. All those who believe that decriminalisation and an over-view could solve these problems. We will not liberalize and decriminalize commercial theft. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] Thank you, Mrs. Minister! There's a lot of work in front of you. We will be from the ÖVP They are actively supporting it.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e4318	Mrs Lichtenberger has now come to the speaker's desk. 8 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e4361	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Fekter, your picture of the pit stop makes a little imaginative. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's a good picture!]] If I think about this with the six seconds, I have to say: At boxing stops, tires are usually exchanged, with you government members. If this is to be done at even shorter intervals now, I fear that nothing can be decided in this country at all! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It's just a clear thing: If you observe what kind of carousel has now occurred to the liberals in the post question, then this becomes pretty slowly alarming. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That was the same thing under Vranckky!]] First of all, I thought that the current reform of the government, because it is precisely at the moment that they have been 'hindered', of course has to do with the fact that we wanted to get rid of the discussion about the former freedom director Moser as new President of the Court of Auditors as soon as possible, because this is, of course, a very embarrassing discussion. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: This is the next item on the agenda!]] In fact, Moser has not necessarily provided good pictures of how objectively he deals with certain things. We will have an opportunity to discuss it anyway in the afternoon. The fact that, as his successor to the ÖBB, the luckless ex-traffic minister Reichhold is in conversation, who has now been parked at Magna, is really putting the crown on the whole from my point of view. I think this is scandalous in this way! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is obvious that the Free Party Centre is now moving from the Ministry of Social Affairs to the Ministry of Transport, because there has already been a great increase in recent times. The largest ever-existing cabinet of a minister is now located in the Ministry of Transport. With regard to the Ministry of Transport, it is not a Ministry of Transport, it is a party headquarters that is being built there. This is now obviously not to be the branch, but the head office. [[Abg. Dr. Bleckmann: As the Schelm thinks he is!]] I wonder, What happens in the Ministry of Transport? Transport policy or post office chess for free partygoers? In my view, this is really unacceptable for the pressing problems in the transport sector. [[New condolences with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] This trip was necessary. Today it should be the European Constitution, but the importance of Europe's policy in this government is seen as a means of forcing these two issues, namely the various pit stops of the liberals and the European Constitution, into a common debate. I'm telling you honestly: This is really a small deal about the European issue, which was precisely the cause of bad electoral participation in the European elections. It is not possible to justify the tiredness of the vote alone, but I say to you: If you continue in such a way that these combinations will be the rule in the debate, then the European spirit will remain very, very long! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] This is not only the case in Parliament, but it is quite obvious that this is also the case in the government. Mr Böhmdorfer yesterday outlined the importance of European policy in this government, namely that if a 100-page proposal is put into the hand ten minutes before the vote and if one chooses to do so without really knowing the details. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a European policy, it is a dramatic boxing stop in the Nirwana! Really! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In assessing the Intergovernmental Conference by the Federal Chancellor, some interesting questions remain. For example, the question has remained completely open as to how the Federal Chancellor will now turn to the promises of Mrs. Foreign Minister that Austria will take part in structured cooperation immediately and without regard to its neutrality. With regard to the reading of the Constitutional Treaty, as the Intergovernmental Conference has now mutilated it, the NATO binding has been strengthened once again in the military sector and the decision-making mechanisms have been pushed further towards militarization. Federal Chancellor! How can you agree with a peace policy that once had a tradition in Austria and which is a very large part of the population in Austria? [[Abg. May. Molterer: The Federal Government too!]] Mr Bundeskanzler, you must answer this question to the National Council, because that is one of the questions people are interested in. It is not the number of Commissioners, not the extremely complex ordering arrangements for the Commissioners, but the question of peace policy are particularly concerned with the interests of the people. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, you have described the great role played by the Intergovernmental Conference in terms of Constitutional Treaty. I can only tell you one thing – here I quote only once from “The Press” with today’s gloss –: “For weeks, if not for months, they have muttered in back rooms, agreed, blocked each other and led astray: The election of the EU President of the Commission gives a dubious light to the Heads of State and Government of the European Union and to the institutions they represent.” Ladies and gentlemen! This is a dramatic analysis, and the Federal Chancellor has supported it himself. After all, he quoted Renner with his statement: The nations will always fight. . You, Federal Chancellor, were the one who has always defended the privilege of governments vis-à-vis the Commission, to Parliament, to the European institutions. You, Mr. Federal Chancellor, are here perpetrators – and not commentators of historical development. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One last word on the performance report that you have delivered. They were proud to have achieved price stability in the objectives of the Constitution. And you were equally pleased that the question of the labour market has been brought down to a so-called high level of employment in the Intergovernmental Conference. Ladies and gentlemen! This is exactly what fits the practice of this government: Labour is manoeuvring mass, and mass welfare belongs to the past. This, ladies and gentlemen of the EIA, is the goal you want to achieve in Austria and at EU level.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e4502	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. She too has a speaking time of 8 minutes. – Mrs Colleague, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e4521	Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, Mrs Lichtenberger: I mean, it is really the legitimate interest of national states to fight for their interests, too. The paradox is that all EU countries are fighting for their national interests. I remember that, for example, Spain has vehemently resisted the fact that the funds that Spain receives from the EU are being reduced on the occasion of enlargement. Only the Austrians demand that they do not fight for the national interests. I really think that's something paradoxical. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] And if you attack the Federal Chancellor – I am not the first defender of the Federal Chancellor – this is due to the ÖVP, but still – I would like to remind you of what a press release shows. At the EU Summit in Rome, where 25 Heads of State and Government were present, our “small” chancellor again showed courage against the great EU: He was at the head of the Small Revolt against the draft new EU Constitution, which favours the Great. – I think we should all be grateful to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It would also be good for you from the SPÖ and the Greens if you would also receive recognition, because I think we should fight together for Austrian interest in the EU. That would have to be a need for us. Ladies and gentlemen! However, I would also like to speak now about the reform of the government. I really didn't expect you to discuss government reform objectively, because reality has never been the strength or mark of this opposition. But that you are making such fun of government transformation, such as Mr Van der Bellen did, ridiculous and boring, or that Mrs Lichtenberger claims without any reason that a party centre would now be created in the Ministry of Transport – there is no reason at all to claim it! –, I wouldn't have expected. That is really very unbelievable! Obviously I still have a too good opinion of you, of the opposition, because I believed you will seriously deal with this government transformation, but not nebulos, ridiculous, boring, as Mr Van der Bellen did, or discriminatory as Mrs Lichtenbergerer did. [[Abg. Scheibner: After 20 years?- Oh, my God!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] I would like to take a brief look at what has happened in advance, Mr Matznetter, how this has personally been defamated. As far as the Minister of Justice is concerned, one has really been taken into the lower drawer, although one... [[Call the SPÖ:When?]] Watch out, I'll quote you a little! Although no one knew the Minister of Justice exactly, Mrs Bures – obviously she still hears SPÖ – said that Mrs Karin Miklauch is a completely inexperienced lawyer. [[Abg. Scheibner: We do not take them!]] – After all, has the Minister of Justice worked for three years in a law firm and for more than ten years as a leader in the state government, and that is what you call an inexperienced government?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Politically inexperienced!]] – What is not responsible? They always demand the culture of dialogue, but in fact you only practice the principle of burnt earth. This is your policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I remember very well: When Mr. Federal Minister Böhmdorfer was praised, you agreed to him every professional suitability – I have to turn to it because you were it – for the resort. [[towards SPÖ and Greens]] You're saying, the ideological. During the term of office of Mr. Böhmdorfer, did you once notice that he was acting ideologically in any way? – No, not at all, because his policy was based on the idea of making a judicial policy for Austria that would benefit all Austrians, ladies and gentlemen! [[Ironic cheerfulness with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ]] Now praise Minister Böhmdorfer. In the Committee on Justice, Mr Jarolim and Mrs Stoisits have even praised the Minister of Justice – I would say – more than I did myself, for I have had some conflicts with the Minister of Justice. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That was also the reason...! This is also the reason for his departure!]] For example, I didn't agree with him on the StPO reform for reasons other than you, but you praised him about everything! In reality, Mr Böhmdorfer was the Minister for Reform, ladies and gentlemen. This has not yet been done: a minister of justice who has dealt with the urgent problems quickly and quickly. [[Abg. Riepl: Then why is he gone?]] – That was his personal wish, honourable Member, that you heard. This discussion, however, also offers the opportunity to talk about what has happened in the judicial area; it has already been mentioned some of it. For example, strengthening victim rights is really something that the previous Justice Ministers did not attack. Or: home-residence and home-contract rules; Mrs Fekter has already mentioned this. This is something that affects the poorest, namely those who can no longer look at themselves. Or: the Extraordinary Law and so on. Or: Minister Böhmdorfer has also taken an important measure against drug dealers by, for example, reducing the limit for heroin or introducing the life-long penalty for drug dealers. Just as inaccurate as your remarks were, when Böhmdorfer took over the judicial department, you are acting again today. And it's probably gonna happen to you the same thing. The Minister of Justice will prove that she is making a good judicial policy, a judicial policy in the interests of citizens. And she has already set out her priorities today. She said: Strengthening victim rights, an understandable language – which is really necessary, because many laws do not even understand legalists, not even those who are in the judicial committee, an acceleration of the procedure and so on. [[Complaints with Members of the Liberals]] [[Abg. Oillinger: You don't understand? – You should also withdraw immediately!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! You really have no arguments to take action against this federal government. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Oils.]] Mr Oellinger, do not always shout at me, but listen to me! It is also very significant how you deal with all that is presented here by the government. I can remember: When Mr Bundeskanzler Schüssel today reported what laws this Federal Government has passed, what positive measures it has taken, you only broke out in mockery. We have decided on two economic packages, Austria in a ranking with regard to economic location to the 13. It's the world's leading place. Ladies and gentlemen! In view of this difficult economic situation, you have to enforce this at present! We have a gross domestic product, which is absolutely on average. We have implemented a tax reform that favours 2.5 million people: half of the taxpayers no longer pay tax! [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] Therefore, I can only return the appeal to you – my speaking time is over: In this difficult time, work with the government – in the interests of the citizens – and do not always try to beat political little money out of everything!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e4705	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Darabos. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e4723	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! I'm here for the first time and I say quite openly: I am a little surprised and disappointed by the previous course of the debate. [[Abg. Neudeck: But it won't be better now!]] That is why I am surprised because it is already happening to me, Mrs Bablé, as if we had replaced the members of the government of the FPÖ, and not you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So I'm disappointed because today's day would have given you the opportunity to say: Okay, the vote in the last elections, the last one in the elections to the European Parliament, shows us that we got bad censorships. We therefore not only exchange people, we also make a different policy. You, however, from ÖVP and FPÖ, have come into this place and today have said across the government groups that you want to continue to pursue this policy. Then I can follow a prophecy: If you continue to pursue this policy, these personal cosmetics will not suffice. They will only drive forward the sluggish dying process of this black and blue federal government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Do you know what the bad thing about this situation is? – The worst thing about the situation is that the Federal Chancellor at the head and the entire federal government know that they are at the end that the majority of the population is no longer behind them. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: We have the better values!]] 39 percent of the population have chosen you at the EU election. This is far from an absolute majority! And the Federal Government knows that it no longer has the power to make a creative and imaginative policy for Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You wish, but that's not so!]] I therefore think that it would have been necessary today to act a little different here, perhaps in the form that you go inside and say: We have made a wrong policy, but we are changing this policy, we are making a real blow of liberation! We question our own political positions, we try a real change of course in politics – towards a policy for people, away from a policy that has actually only been under stress. The Federal Chancellor asked us: How would you like it? – “Speed kills”, a policy of speed, of driving – I just remember ambulance charges, accident pension taxes, study fees – we don’t want to. And now you're making a policy of standstill. How would we like it? . We would like to see a social policy that is compatible with reforms carried out with an eye. We would like to, and this would also be the great majority of Austrians! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So from my point of view, there are three things that remain. First: The exchange of persons will not make this government healthy. I have nothing against the two new members of the government; they will try to work according to best knowledge and conscience. However, it would be more sensible for the FPÖ to think about its policy and to get rid of it by the ÖVP, because the real reason for you to lose elections is that you are involved in a neoliberal policy and are thus caught in a government constellation that is equal to a betrayal to your voters. That's why you lost 17 percent in the EU election, not because Mr Böhmdorfer was sitting back here, or another State Secretary. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have made offers from SPÖ to turn away from this policy – a key word pension reform. They could have decided, together with the opposition in the previous year, a pension reform which would have been socially just, which would not have been equal to a pension reduction reform, as German Chancellor Schüssel had prepared with his team, but would have been a socially just policy. But you have decided to maintain the ministerial chair. That is not what you want – but it will not protect you from the next election. Secondly – and that is also said because this is always being colported to the media –: Jörg Haider is not the solver of a problem, he is part of the problem itself. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Does the Ambrozy know?]] The vast majority of the population is no longer behind its course, and I would also consider the course with these three wings, which are already available in the FPÖ, once. Thirdly, Mr Bundeskanzler: You cannot, as your propaganda machine tries to make the public aware, steal from responsibility and rely on stability. They're the stability factor. You are the co-cause of this chaos of the government, for you have been silent for a long time, and you are not only responsible for the ÖVP members, but also responsible for the FPÖ members. And one would have expected a clear word from you earlier in this direction. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The only reason why we are glad that you are not going to Brussels – by the way, this has only been co-imported in Austria, in no other European state; no European newspaper has written it – is the fact that you have to stand up for the policy you have to handle with this government sooner or later. [[Abg. Prince: You seem to be reading very little!]] [[further calls to the ÖVP]] – We look forward to the day when this will be the case.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e4864	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Spindelegger. He too has 5 minutes of speaking time. . You are at the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e4884	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Mr Darabos, in your first speech of disappointment, you have expressed that the discussion today is not taking place in such an objective and special way as you imagine it. But I have to give you this disappointment: Your first speech in this House, in the National Council, you have actually used nothing but to repeat the plattites from the Löwelstraße. – Ladies and gentlemen! This is too little for a Parliament like this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would like to return to what the Federal Chancellor has said in his statement today, and I think it is worth it; to discuss it, for: A European Constitution has not yet existed, but in the future there will be such a one. With the agreement of the Heads of State or Government, I feel different from that of Mr Gusenbauer, who meant: well, yes, better than none at all, has already been set a milestone, ladies and gentlemen. This agreement of 25 Heads of State or Government helps us to have a foundation on which we can continue to build this Europe. I believe that it is already an impressive result of the Union's ability to act, that there has been this agreement in Europe. And I am glad that all 25 who are now members have voted with their representatives there, probably better than if, six months ago, only 15 had decided a constitution that would have been applicable to ten more countries. I believe it is already an impressive milestone created by this European Constitution. And I would also like to very much welcome this for my group, because we stand per Europe and believe that a good new Europe can be built on it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I would also like to contradict Mrs Lichtenberger's point of view, which means that there will be negotiations on texts somewhere in the secret chamber, and no one will know about them. – Yes, Mrs Lichtenberger, it is obvious that the process that has taken place in this House to accompany you has completely passed away. Most of the documents, this thick package, were already agreed. We all welcomed this in the main committee. As envisaged in the Constitution and in practice in Austria, the political groups of the House have also had the opportunity to agree on every single text that has been negotiated at this European Council. We have a fire brigade committee in this National Council, in which each political group sends a representative, and this accompanies this process. I would also like to point this out to a large public at this point that we in Austria have an exemplary system of Parliament's participation in such events as a European Council. And I believe that this is a very essential condition for the participation of citizens in the development of the Union. I would also like to say that, with our government representatives, we also have personalities in this European Council, with Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel, with Ms. Foreign Minister Benita Ferrero-Waldner, who, for Austria's last moment, have raised very important points in this process of change. It's important for us: general care. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is not what the Austrians are interested in. The exact opposite is the case: The question of generalized preferences Mr Einem, please take care of every Austrian, because everyone would like to know where health care is decided on: in Austria or in Brussels? Where will it decide how to dispose of waste, from the municipality or from Brussels? – We support the decision taken in Austria, and so we have implemented it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Another example: the topic of water, which you have so often mentioned in the election campaign as such a crucial topic. At this Intergovernmental Conference it was decided that water issues will also be subject to unanimity in the future and cannot be brought about by any European laws. – A success for this federal government, ladies and gentlemen, because the Federal Chancellor finally enforced this at the European Council. And I think that is very important, because we want to continue to decide on our water resources; without us there is nothing in this area that can be changed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to mention a third example that the Austrians are interested in. Of course, it is also a matter of co-determination in all the institutions. The Commission is now the engine of the European Union as a whole. And if Austria does not have a Commissioner, that means that one is also cut off from information processes. We have a Commissioner until 2014. That is to say, two further periods will be decided by an Austrian Commissioner in the Commission. We think this is important and good. The Federal Chancellor has enforced this, colleague One – you would have deleted it at the same time. We do not want this, but we want us to continue to be represented in all the institutions – a success of our Federal Chancellor! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore believe that this foundation can be built on, and we welcome this decision by the Heads of State or Government.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e4978	Next, Mrs Mag. Stoisits. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e5000	Poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! First of all, I would like to say: I do not cry any tears to Mr Böhmdorfer! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Jössas na! You always praised him! You've had huge praises for him!]] I truly do not cry out to him any tears and remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that it was precisely he who thought the proposals Jörg Haider, “fatherland traitors”, oppositional politicians who were criticizing government policy to pursue criminal justice, that Justice Minister Böhmdorfer was the one who at the time called Jörg Haider “higher than any suspicion”. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Really you are not!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Why did you praise him in every session? Thank you for the policy he does!]] That is why the seven requests for distrust against Minister Böhmdorfer, as a political means against his work here in Parliament, have been more than justified than right, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The question, however, why exactly this minister is being replaced, which the government claims to be crying out tears to him, and who today was praised by the government ach, could not be answered. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I'll have the protocols brought!]] No one has yet been able to explain this contradiction from the speakers of the government groups. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, if he was as good as you do, he would still be sitting here and should continue in his work! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But you were a jubilant!]] But for us – and I would also like to make this clear – is a minister of justice who has broken down the judicial system in Austria, just as the Minister of Justice other than service Böhmdorfer, a minister of justice in whose era the numbers of prisoners in Austria have risen as high as never before, what has to do with his policy, truly not a minister to whom one has a tear to cry. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, because I am no longer able to deal with him, I now want to dedicate myself to the new Federal Minister. Mrs. Federal Minister Mag. Miklutsch! I haven't commented on your order so far. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: She will not put any value on it either!]] What should I have said? I'm not a specialist in Carinthian water quality. I can't comment on your work as a Carinthian water law specialist because I haven't been working on it so far. [[Abg. Neudeck: And this is a lawyer!]] In recent years, as a Green Judge, I have dealt very well with the rule of law in Austria, and I can only say: I am more than surprised that exactly this federal government is putting someone who admits to be unsuspecting in all of these things in relation to the judicial resort – that was your first response to your order – in this place, which is a key place of every state. The judicial unit is not a place like any other. The head of the department – in that case now you – is in charge of one of the state authorities, namely the judicial system. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: After half a year you will rejoice again!]] But, ladies and gentlemen, this procedure in the Federal Government shows nothing but that this federal government is not a major concern of the rule of law. Otherwise, there would not be a change of ministry with this benevolence. Mr Böhmdorfer admitted that he did not volunteer to continue his work. And then someone – I at least understood that – is ordered in this sensitive resort within twelve hours in this sensitive resort! What relationship do you have with these questions, Mr Bundeskanzler, which answers You're on it: How does Austria deal with the rule of law? What about the question of the personal situation of judges and prosecutors? What about the question of the dramatic personnel situation in Austria's overcrowded prisons, where the judicial guard responsible for prison security sends more than alerts to those responsible in politics and calls on them to finally do something? What about the question of the criminality of legal persons, with this essential and large legislative project, where we need a body responsible in the case of a woman – before it was a man – who is behind this concern and does not threaten to kneel before industry and the economy, so that this law can also be implemented? I haven't heard from you, Mrs. Minister, about that now. And these are the main problems that Austria is facing over the next few months – hopefully not years – and that you will have to fight with. But nevertheless: As the first and now seventh Minister of Justice in Austria, I wish you all the best and hope for continued good cooperation, as was always the custom in the Committee on Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e5146	The next speaker was Mr Bösch. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e5165	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! But very special: The Minister of Justice and the Secretary of State! I would particularly like to welcome you because I wish you all the best for your difficult work – you have a small taste now. Mrs Stoisits, I was pleased that many of the speakers of the opposition praised Dieter Böhmdorfer and his work, but if you had done so, I might have thought he had done something wrong. That's why, Mrs. Stoisits, I'm glad you don't cry Dieter Böhmdorfer's tears. This is proof to me that he has made an excellent policy. Thank you very much! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, particularly Mr Darabos. In fact, this federal government has something to do with chaos, namely the chaos that we must have taken over from you in 2000, the chaos that was primarily related to the budgetary situation. Ladies and gentlemen! This federal government, with the participation of our liberals, has begun to solve these problems. I'm just reminding you of the tax reform. I would like to remind you of the Federal Animal Protection Act, the Criminal Code, things that we have already debated today, the New Treatment Act, an old concern of you that you have never enforced – the Federal Government, consisting of ÖVP and FPÖ, has done it! I would like to remind you of the pension reform, the child's allowance or the ‘Millions with disabilities’. Ladies and gentlemen! These have all been milestones in the domestic policy of this Republic, which would not have been possible without the participation of us liberals. That is why this Federal Government is on the right track, and that is why we will also put in all our strength to continue this successful path. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The same is true at European level. Today, we have the European Constitution to be debated in an approach which Mr Bundeskanzler has already addressed. It is an important step for the European Union as a whole that there is now a constitution for 500 million people, which represents a new step forward and which makes it possible to shape the Union now expanded to 25 Member States. However, we liberals also believe that with enlargement by these ten Member States and with this new constitution, which is now to be introduced, essential steps have been taken, which must now lead the Union to try to deal with this integration qualitatively, that we must not now take further enlargement steps, and that we must also leave time in terms of the intensity of integration. Ladies and gentlemen! If the European Union experiment is to succeed – and we should! – if this experiment is to succeed, then it will take time, then it will also take time to really process this enlargement by ten new Member States, and then it will take time for this Constitution, which has now been decided at the head of government, to be put into operation and accepted by the peoples of the European Union. In this Constitution, there are substantial improvements to the situation before that, Mr President, and I believe that is the essential criterion. We have been able to ensure that the water resources of Austria cannot be attacked by the European level. We have secured the general care, a concern you have just pursued in the Convention, in the new Constitution which has now been adopted. We have had the right to co-operate with the national parliaments. We have anchored the triggering of an early warning mechanism from the national parliaments if the Commission makes its legislative proposals. On the other hand, we can also file a complaint if there is a fear that the principle of subsidiarity has been violated. We also have an explicit definition of co-decision at European level between the EU Parliament and the Councils. This is very important: The Members directly elected by the people of Europe in the European Parliament are in constant cooperation with the representatives of the democratically legitimate governments of the Member States. This is an essential step forward, and I think that is also a good part of the new Constitution. There is no doubt that we also need to consider how to legitimise this Constitution in the context of a referendum. If it succeeds in holding a referendum at European level, I should be right, then it is a good step in the right direction. But we also need to ask ourselves, as Austrians, to what extent this new European Constitution is interfering with the constitutional reality of our Austrian constitution. This debate, ladies and gentlemen, should also be held in order to determine whether a referendum will be necessary here too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e5241	The speaking time of the last four speakers will be 6 minutes each. Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e5262	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Once again a government conversion, once again people are exchanged in the liberal team. This concludes the all-round renewal of the liberal government team – there is no one who has been there since February 2000. We find that you could have kept quiet with the all-round renewal. In the ÖVP part of the government, too, we would have come up with a lot of ideas about all-round renewal. Above all, it would be necessary to revitalise your policy. For example, we could imagine a complete change in education policy. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's what we're afraid of!]] We would again like to see an education policy that focuses on the opportunities of children and does not save the opportunities of children. We would like to see an all-round change in labour market policy, which puts young people's opportunities back at the centre and does not deal with the fact that so many young people in our country find no work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] We would like to see a complete change in the pension reform policy, if we wanted a pension reform to be implemented as quickly as possible, which will gain people's confidence and deserve this trust. To sum up, ladies and gentlemen, we would like you to have a policy where people no longer have to fear if they hear the word “reform” as it is at the moment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mrs. Vice-Chancellor, apologies, Mrs. State Secretary – Freud’s miscarriage, I think, not by chance – has meant that the appointment of the Minister of Justice is a woman’s political statement. - Aha! I would like to say a lot about women's policy. As far as women's policy is concerned, for example, I would find it very original after many years of your government policy, if you would once make politics that would help women to relieve women in their lives, which opens up opportunities for women. But there is nothing you can do, even though the OECD has betrayed you in this regard. The OECD believes that too little happens in terms of the compatibility of work and family in our country. But you don't react, you don't change your policy either. The EU Commission has told you and criticised your policy for making the return for women very difficult after the baby break. You're not responding! That would be important women's policy statements! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Here you would have a lot of room for action to do sensible things, but unfortunately there is only absolute standstill here. But now the person of the new Minister of Justice. – Ms. Justice Minister, it was very nice of you to present us with your CV here. More than that, I would have been interested in hearing your political ideas. Unfortunately, we have only heard a few words from you. For example, I would have liked to know what you, Mrs. Justice Minister, understand if you say that you want to punish social fraud hard. What can we expect from you in the next few years? You, Mrs Minister, have called the victim protection, I believe, rightfully, for there has been much left open. Unfortunately, you have not told us what you want to change here. It would also be interesting how you plan to deal with the victim protection organisations which your predecessor unfortunately has financially starved. Unfortunately, you, Mrs Federal Minister, have not said anything about the common care currently imposed on you. We hear from many parents that there is conflict on the back of the children. I think there is a need for action here too. In total, Mrs. Federal Minister, I wish you good luck, and: I'm afraid you'll need it! To Mainoni State Secretary: I am very sorry, Mr State Secretary, that you have just adopted your first opinions from the not particularly ambitious objective of increasing the research rate to 3 percent by 2010. They say the money's not there. I would say, Mr State Secretary: More courage! It's about important things. That's the business location. This is a question of qualified jobs. This is about opportunities for young people. Therefore: More courage! Don't resign! Fight You are in favour of the corresponding budget for research! It'd be worth it. Mr State Secretary! Please be content, not with the role that you seem to have in mind, to be the aid of Mr. Vice-Chancellor, so that he can concentrate more on party work in the FPÖ! Mr State Secretary, take your job seriously! Fight for more research resources, for more budget resources! That's an important role you've taken over. We are very happy to strengthen your back! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] To sum up, I would like to say: Make Continue with the all-round renewal! Make You don't keep it, don't leave it to exchange a few heads! [[Abg. May. Molterer: We will not stop working!]] Make all-news about the substance of your policy! People in this country need it bitterly.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e5342	Next speaker is MP Dkfm. Dr. stupid. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e5361	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank – especially the new members of the government who are welcome here in this House! Ladies and gentlemen! Those who have followed today's debate carefully have noticed the following: The opposition has tried with two completely different approaches to make government policy bad and to break it apart. Gusenbauer tried it with a very larmoyant, black-painting, fear-making speech – it was unsuccessful. Colleague Van der Bellen tried with a very cabaretistic, lulanic, ridiculous speech – she was also unsuccessful. I can only say: The comparison makes us sure! [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Ah that?- Oh, my God!]] If we are discussing the European Constitution today, the following comparison makes us sure, ladies and gentlemen: Let us remember the spring of 2000 and compare it with today's state! –2000: Sanctions of all EU 14 against Austria. Today: a new European Constitution, where many previous speakers have rightly said that it bears to a large extent the manuscript of our Federal Chancellor and our Foreign Minister. We all and all Austrians have experienced in recent weeks what great appreciation our Federal Chancellor has in Europe. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the SPÖ.]] – What a comparison, ladies and gentlemen, between 2000 and today! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr. Federal Chancellor, let me say the following: Of course, as a small country, we Austrians are incredibly proud that we have a top European politician in our Federal Chancellor. But if I'm very honest, I have to say, We are even more glad that you are the Federal Chancellor for the Republic of Austria, Mr. Federal Chancellor, because there is no better, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It also makes us sure a second comparison, ladies and gentlemen – and this is what those colleagues from the Financial Committee who were there when the experts of the Monetary Fund were in this House a month and a half ago, and there all four groups were represented: The experts of the Monetary Fund have said that since the political turn of 2000 Austria has become a model for Europe – a showcase for Europe – with regard to the necessary reforms. Austria is among the top three in the Lisbon process. Lisbon process means: economic recovery process, means jobs, income opportunities, social security – and we are among the top 3 with an excellent current account of this federal government, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Parnigoni: Only on paper! Very high unemployment!]] Mr Parnigoni, the following figures are very simple, you understand them too. Ladies and gentlemen! In Austria last year, we had twice as high economic growth and only half as high unemployment as in the EU average and a budget deficit, which is only one third of what France, England, Germany or Italy has – an excellent performance of this federal government! Two new members now come to this Federal Government, and in my opinion these two new members have excellent start-up conditions in this Federal Government: They're coming to a successful team. As far as the new Minister of Justice is concerned, in addition to her own qualifications, she has an excellent house with excellent experts and the majority of parliament behind her. She has a congenial partner with our Maria Theresia Fekter as a judicial committee obscene. I can only say: Happy to take up this new role, Mrs. Justice Minister! You will continue the judicial reforms successfully! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Eduard Mainoni, I think you, whom we have known for a long time, also have excellent starting conditions: This House has set the course in the research field in recent months, so that today renowned experts, such as Prof. Felder, say that Austria is one of the most attractive research sites. We have put in place numerous measures in the field of research: Research grants, National Foundation for Research, complete restructuring of the entire research landscape. Dear colleague Edi Mainoni, you have excellent chances, but we know: We can decide the most beautiful laws, but they must also be implemented! This opportunity now lies with you, and we are very hopeful and wish you all the best for this fascinating task in this new function. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We know that this team, which is now sitting on the government bank, brings all the conditions, on the basis of the previous achievements. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Broukal.]] Mr Broukal, you cannot break these benefits! These are facts and facts that can't be broken! In Austria, we have an excellent current account in the field of financial and economic policy. I'm just counting the benefits as follows: Stability in the State budget, tax reform to relieve citizens and businesses, investment in infrastructure. We have an excellent current account in social policy with measures such as finishing new, childcare, parental care, hospice. This is a perfect balance sheet of social policy! We also have an excellent balance sheet in the field of education and research policy; Keywords: University reform. We have set the course for the future of our high schools. We have created all the conditions for Austria to be again leaders in this area. I myself visited the Danube Union in Krems last week in my constituency. I can remind you: At one time you smiled – today there are 3,000 listeners from 40 nations in the world, and the university has a self-financing rate of 80 percent. – This is the success story of this federal government’s educational policy, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bauer.]] Mr Bauer, you too smiled at the time! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Bauer.]] I can still remember how Altlande's captain Sigi Ludwig turned these visions into reality, where some have knocked on the head. This is the strength of this federal government: It has a perspective – Austria 2010. This country is in good hands with this Federal Government!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e5476	The next speaker is Mr Grünewald. 6 minutes speaking time. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e5495	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! High house! I hope that my comments on this change of government will come up with more interest than Mr Stumbling, but since I am not carrying a incense vessel, I doubt it. Only recently have we seen how little success the debate on the subject of “fatherland traitors” and “champagnes” has been conducted by you, and now you offer us a little original transformation of the federal government, which I do not find as exciting as all your party comrades. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: We are not comrades!]] We hear again and again the words “resurrection”, “renewal”, “competence”, but no one is surprised because we have always heard that. Again and again you have remodeled – with or without squeaking, smoking rubbers. But what you did at the same time is the following: They have born a new state-political office, that of a Carinthian consul. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] However, I would consider its advice to be more than a hit against successful governance than a council. However, if you hear what the commentators are writing about and saying, then you should at least become bold as to whether such an office is appropriate to conduct Austria and the Republic. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The whole thing remains incomprehensible, however, unless one interprets this government transformation as what it really is, namely the admission of a broad and repeated political failure. It is the admission of a deserter to quality assurance in politics and also the admission of the detachment of the Federal Chancellor as a sustainable, great strategist who knows what he is doing. It is also the enthronement of the President of Parliament Khol, who has already wagered some expensive wines by relying on the government's sustainability. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Let's hold on: A dream team or, if you want to, a cabinet of light looks quite different for me and, as I mean, for the majority of the population. De facto, however, the ÖVP has really succeeded in adopting in a kind of single government an eye seeing that ministries are given a competent, relevant, professional guidance. – This is not the case, and this is also the responsibility of the Federal Chancellor. I do not want to desert anyone now – and I do not want to accuse Mainoni or the current Minister of Justice here – yet something remains: One needs courage not to say a certain toll or disrespectfulness to the requirements of an office, if one says yes to everything, to all that one is called to – whether appropriate or not! And I'm concerned about that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is also important because the word “ministerium” – which is probably Khol expert – comes from “services”, but such occupations do not actually do any citizen of Austria! Mr. Federal Chancellor, what irritates me most: You take all this into account, this kind of single government, this “path magic” of expert resort control, just to get your power, just to get this coalition! And that – tell me if you see it differently – I think I'm a betrayal of the Republic, a betrayal of the electorate. [[Interference by Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel.]] – “Landeswet” I didn’t say, but it’s a betrayal! I see it that way. Mr Bundeskanzler, do you really need competence in water law, because you and the government are soon up to their necks?- Oh, my God! Needs You really are a State Secretary for Sport, who will run a health-political marathon soon, with stethoscope and white coat, so to speak – but probably not to the end?- Oh, my God! For what, Federal Chancellor, do you need such a government reform?- Oh, my God! I don't think you have to be a researcher or a doctor in order to run the corresponding departments, but: I do not think it is appropriate to have little or nothing on the hat with expertise! When Martin Strutz says in Carinthia that the influence of Carinthia on the government has developed more strongly, I say: If that's good, I don't want to comment, I'll leave it to your imagination! She, the new Minister of Justice, could “pack up well,” she said; “she trusts something,” says Lopatka about the new Federal Minister. – I mean: “packing” is done by furniture companies, and “trust” one might do something as a stuntman/puntwoman: I do not know, however, whether this is justified in leading a judicial body. [[Abg. Scheibner: So you are worried – really true!]] Once upon a time, the comparison of a well-known but resting, relaxed politician came, who said: This transformation testifies to a coma! – Now I want to do this a little more, because it falls into my field: Koma means that very important functions of the central nervous system are that people in the coma cannot keep in touch with the environment, do not listen to environmental appeals, do not see and cannot react, at least not targeted. – But there is a difference: Most of the patients in the coma can't do anything for this – except they would have always hit their heads with a rubber hammer for so long that these functions are no longer possible. [[Abg. Dr. Bösch: Incredible! Insanity!]] I don't know now whether you might have taken stoned “Kärntner Kasnudels” to insult each other, but I think that a coma in this sense would then be associated with responsibility. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: That's incredible!]] [[Further calls to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr. Federal Chancellor, from...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e5626	The final sentence, Mr Colleague!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e5642	Federal Chancellor! I do not want to let you go of this responsibility: See that the Federal Government gets again cognitive skills that we understand! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e5676	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. Speech time: 6 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e5695	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Dr. Grünewald manages to be a little out of my mind, what I should say at the outset, because the Greens have surpassed themselves today, so to speak. It has already begun in the early morning with Mrs. Moser, who has disqualified herself with her interlocutory call to a new Minister of Justice, who has really come out of the deepest drawer! [[Call the Greens.]] My colleague, Mr Stoisits, has then set out a little bit, and what Dr. Grünewald said at the end really lacks any competence that could be expected from the Greens, at least from time to time! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Two issues are to be discussed at this item on the agenda. First of all, I would like to focus very briefly on the debate on the EU Constitution, and I also believe that it is very important what has been said here today is that this is an issue that Austria will be working on in the coming weeks and months, and of course that is something that will have a major impact on the future. At the moment, it is probably still that the population is not concerned at all; the population is taking Europe, the EU is not really aware of it, it has also shown itself in the results of the elections, which, by the way, were not particularly good for all parties, I would like to say once the absolute figures have been made. Granted: not even for the liberals. – Why were the results not good? – The population is EU-critical, and it cannot, as it were, attack this Constitution. [[Calls to the Greens.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I think this issue is too important to address your calls now. I believe that once again all political representatives should try to work constructively for Austria on the issue of EU Constitution, to stand alongside each other – and not to fight each other! The opposition should also give up its party-political thinking! If representatives of all parties sit in Brussels, I would really expect them to be closer to the shirt than the skirt. I am convinced that our first home country should be Austria – and only our second Europe. In any case, we liberals stand for this to remain the same in the future! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, this referendum is certainly a very interesting issue, and we will be looking at it in the near future to see if it makes sense to consult the people in Austria so to speak – or whether this should happen across Europe. Mrs. Fablé made it quite clear in her remarks: It is the same way that water is preached here and in Brussels. Wine's getting drunk! It is really sad to talk here in a national Parliament to representatives of the opposition on this issue – and to see that all principles are thrown overboard by the opposition. [[Abg. Oillinger: From you!]] Nothing of all – nothing! – with whom you move into the election campaign, stop! – [[Abg. Oillinger: You are very small in the government!]] We liberals are perhaps a small party at the moment, Mr Oellinger, you may be right. Yeah, we've been bigger before, we've gotten smaller, but: But you will never get much bigger with your policy! Today, in these three hours of television broadcast, you have shown that you are not able to give someone a chance, and in three hours you have proven that your party polemics and your calls should only serve to make something bad and to organize a human hatred! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] On the subject of government reform, I would like to say something, and I have written down a little something that has already been said. For example, Mrs Bures said that the new Minister of Justice had no competence, no experience. [[Abg. Ollinger: She didn't speak at all!]] – I have to say honestly: I remember a special meeting of around three weeks ago here, and there was also someone from the SPÖ standing out here. To this end: If what Mr Broukal has said out here bears witness to political competence and political experience, then I must say, I am pleased to be able to put up with the decision of my Federal Party to put really good and competent people forward – and not to look somewhere in the ORF for any people who then, at the very first opportunity here in the House and show here also to the public, on what a deep level they are! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You, Mr Darabos, said that the government had no majority in the EU election. You should expect: Also Their anti-government course had no majority, because at least 6 million were eligible for election. The SPÖ has received nearly 830 000 votes, 14 percent of the population. This should also give you the opportunity to think – and not just us, and I do not think you should be talking about “majority” in view of this small percentage either. Finally, a few words about the new members of the Federal Government: Mr Mag. Mainoni is known to all in here; I don't think there's much to say about him. May. Mainoni, a deeply rooted liberal, will certainly go his way. But I would also like to ask him at this point that he should not forget that he is looking for contact with the citizens, that he never forgets to perceive this feeling of the liberals for the people – and that he always has an open ear to the concerns and problems of the people! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mrs Mag. Miklauch, about which a lot has already been talked about here today: I am lucky, I say, that I am one of the few here who knows it personally, including from various negotiations. [[Ironic cheerfulness with representatives of the Greens, but not with the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig, who just wrote something.]] – Mrs. Dr. Glavischnig, you can laugh quietly about it, but this does not distinguish you in this case; [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: I suppose!]] Neither do you, Mrs. Lichtenberger! You don't like to laugh at a young Minister of Justice. [[Abg. Oillinger: You do that at most!]] I would like to say that quite clearly at this point. That's really something objectionable! I'd like to write that to you in the main book! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I am convinced that Mrs Miklauch will go her way, and I am also convinced that she will work very well and do good work. We liberals will at least support them according to the best of knowledge and conscience; the freedomable club will always stand behind it! [[Call the Greens.]] The club of the liberals – together with the ÖVP – will take the evidence that everyone here in the House has earned a political opportunity: whether he is on the National Council or on the Government Bank. Everyone has earned a political opportunity, a fact that you too should finally take to heart from the opposition – and not then, when someone goes, praise how good he/she was, and that, although you have just slandered before. We will in all cases prove that the opposition is also wrong with her statements, and I have considered what to give the Federal Minister to the trip. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] I come to the conclusion, Mr President. – A woman should be given a few flowers on the journey, and as the second, I would like to give the Minister of Justice a picture of Justitia with the signatures of my national councilmates that she holds it in honour. The principles of Justitia can help you! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e5885	That is what we are at the end of this debate. I announce, ladies and gentlemen, that the four political groups agreed to amend the time-limit for the subsequent debate on the election of the President of the Court of Auditors: Each group has 25 minutes. However, it remains free for the individual political groups to nominate either three speakers – or for the classification: 15 minutes of first speakers or 10 minutes of second speakers. There is agreement in the House. Thank you. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e5924	I'll start the interrupted session again. 3rd. Point Report of the main committee on the reimbursement of a proposal for the election of the President/President of the Court of Auditors (559, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e5957	We'll get to 3. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Cap, was the first speaker to speak. His speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e5981	Madam President. High house! Today, we have the opportunity to deal critically with the post-ordering strategy of this black and blue government, because in the main committee of this House the question was who should become President/President of the Court of Auditors for the next twelve years. Above all, those sitting in front of the televisions today must say: The President-in-Office of the Council has carried out this activity in a very correct manner, and he has also expressed to the public as a result of the Court of Auditors' checks, where there are shortcomings and the consequences of these shortcomings, precisely on the basis of these control reports. The Court of Auditors is a very important institution of Parliament. In Old-Currency: Hundreds of millions of schillings per year are saved from taxpayers by the audit activity of the Court of Auditors, and we must therefore pay close attention to this: Will the next President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors be one who can take this office seriously, and who, if necessary, is opposed to the government? It is a very important concern for us: The next President of the Court of Auditors must again be an independent President of the Court of Auditors so that he can complete this activity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] When the ÖVP was still in opposition, in 1980, ÖVP member Heinrich Neisser tabled a motion for a resolution calling for the following: “The Federal Government is invited to submit the draft Constitutional Novel, which provides that for the control bodies provided for in the Constitution at the federal, regional and municipal level, persons who are not members of the respective majority party are to be led.” ÖVP and FPÖ have broken the very thought of Neissers offensively, for Dr. Josef Moser, former club director of the FPÖ, is, of course, a party candidate and a confidant of the two government parties. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: And Novotny is not a party candidate?]] That's the background! And that's why – and I come to the most important point – this farce also came from a hearing that took place in the main committee. We voted in favour of this at the Committee's meeting and also made the request to give the Austrians the opportunity to see by the presence of the electronic and print media themselves whether this hearing is a serious hearing or whether it is just a spectacle. It turned out that the accusations of the Social Democrats, the opposition, were correct. Dr. Moser was out of the house! I'm just wondering – and that's my question to the ÖVP at the same time: What did you tell the three candidates for counting, stallion racket, Hochhauser and Lengheimer, three honourable personalities, when you asked them to go as candidates of the ÖVP in this main committee hearing for the President of the Court of Auditors? How was the conversation? You said: Go, do us a favor, go, you won't! Do as if you wanted to be!Unknown term type: "%s".? – Or did you tell them that they really have opportunities? Mrs. Haubner, the State Secretary, has still said that it was a serious hearing and she was quite surprised that Dr. Moser came out. Thus, this hearing was carried out with this attitude. What did you actually say to the three? What about Dr. Wolf from the Court of Auditors, who was just a count candidate? What did you tell them? Take acting lessons before you get to believe that you believe in your chance to become it!Unknown term type: "%s".? – Or what was the background? [[Abg. Neudeck: You wanted to see Cap!]] I have to tell you: If you are dealing with the establishment of the main committee and the setting up of the hearing, I also understand why They did not want the presence of the media: that the Austrian and the Austrian would not see what farce they had planned. That's what I understand! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] So you from the coalition parties want a self-control with a twinkling. You made Dr. Moser home. The hearing was a farce! Then the vote was: 17 votes were for Dr. Moser, 12 for Dr. Ewald Nowotny, who was by far the most qualified candidate in hearing! That was really the Hearing winner! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: For the SPÖ!]] Three voices were for Dr. Heinz Mayer. And then in the final vote, the ÖVP has not even nominated one of its three candidates of the ÖVP election because it seemed to have been of the opinion after hearing, Dr. Moser is the best and the three others are not so good at all. [[Demonstratative condolences with the liberals.]] Like you didn't even know him! Dr. Moser has been in Parliament for ten years. – So the applause that just came should lead you to mind. That's what I'm telling you so that it doesn't get completely forgotten. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: You do not know such an appreciation across the party boundaries!]] However, I would like to make one more point, and this must also be discussed here in the plenary session: When Dr. Moser was questioned in this hearing, there were, of course, also questions regarding publications in the media, including the question of illegal party funding. At the time when Jörg Haider had his high-rise flights, we all, including you from ÖVP, asked us the question of how he actually financed all of this: the helicopter flights, the “Round-Schmeßen” at the election events and so on. There was money there in covering and abundance! What was going on? There was also a driver's protocol – the procedures were unfortunately discontinued, but it is said that there was a transport of plastic bags containing money. The answer from Dr. Moser to this stand – the plastic bags are said to have come from Turnauer and been delivered to the Bohemian office – was only: I'm not a plastic cunt. – It may be. But we now expect the speakers of the ÖVP and the FPÖ to come to terms with these accusations, which we have to read and hear in the media, and not just the supposed withdrawal position: “I’m not a plasticsackerl carrier!” – Or: As you could learn from other media, Dr. Moser is said to have turned over a envelope of 10 million schilling. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: “Infidelity ” is not the truth!]] Dr. Moser said he wasn't interested in what was in the envelope. – Well, you always want someone to transport things and have no interest in what is inside! I'm just telling you one thing: According to § 4 of the Party's Law, the list of donations of the parties must be passed on to the Court of Auditors. That is why, please, a President of the Court of Auditors must sit here, who is superior to all suspicions. This is also evident in this context. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I'd like to tell you something: If you don't care about the ÖVP, if you don't have anything else in your mind but comply with this pact here – Court of Auditors blue, for that something else then black, black, black, then for a long time nothing and then blue again – if you plan all this, then go out and tell it! [[Abg. Neudeck: Is this a bill now?]] Then in the future we will save ourselves the hearing, then we actually do not need a plenary debate, just the You shouldn't turn off television, because you should see that you're really doing this in a slave loyalty to these pacts, and you can't do any more of the intentions of Heinrich Neissers here. All you've done in the time you've been in opposition, once here, you're not interested anymore! But there is another point that has also been discussed in the media, namely the accusation: Infringement of the contract stencil regulation. I am missing the time to look at the details, but it seems to be a fact – and that was also the subject of the discussion in the hearing – that it was not clear whether Dr. Moser felt that he had broken the contract stencil regulation when he made this contract with HL-AG – Hochführungsstrecken AG – after which part of it was founded so that he would continue to remain a civil servant here in the House. He just said he'd be spartan in his %s. – I don’t know what it’s like: In any case, he will have a right to discharge, he will have a service car, and he will remain in official status. So the tears don't come to you at this estrangement, I have to say that too! I also expect answers from the following speakers, who were even quoted in the media with copies of the corresponding copies, because we are right to expect these answers. [[Abg. Neudeck: There is a press release that says exactly the opposite!]] The last point: Professor Ewald Novotny, who by the way has published 54 scientific articles and 8 books, by the way, on the public sector, the Vice-President of the European Investment Bank and here for a long time financier, was in the Court of Auditors... – Yes, that makes you worried! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: If he writes so much, he has no time to control anyway!]] In fact, Dr. Novotny was the only one who really fulfilled all the qualifications and explained all the issues of competence excellently. He had only one “disadvantage ”: It does not come from the ÖVP and it does not come from the FPÖ either. That's why he can still be so qualified to do the hearing so well, he just won't! I'm sorry, but the deadline expired 2 days ago. - That's your attitude. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That's right!]] That is exactly what you are saying, Mr Scheuch! There is only a political division – and nothing else! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Nowotny was the SPÖ's clubman, right?]] Whether it is positive for the Court of Auditors, whether it hurts him, whether it saves more or less taxpayers – you don't care about it all. I can only tell you: It will be time for the voters to show you the invoice soon for the chess you have to answer here!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e6180	The next speaker was Mr Fassleven. His speaking time is also 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e6199	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In my opinion, Mr Klubobmanns Cap's speech was a model example of a speech that is inappropriate in such a situation, to the highest extent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Cap, you come out here, quote the former President Neisser, who said it shouldn't be a confidant of a party, and in the same breath you defend the nomination of Ewald Novotny, who for years was not only a member of SPÖ, but even Klubobmann's deputy and thus one of the most important SPÖ officials. That's what you want to sell people as honest? I don't understand. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: We heard what Cap said!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Unimaginable!]] The role of the President of the Court of Auditors is indeed one of the most important and central functions of the State, because he checks the entire conduct because he also draws up the federal accounts and because he himself is involved in all the acts of the federal financial debt. We have had the luck of having had in the last decades in Austria the highest rank of personalities able to perform this function not only perfectly, but also with an international scale. I would remind you of President Kandusch, President Broesigke or, lastly, President Fierce. They were all members once and also officials of a party, but they understood how to exercise this function independently of the party. And I could read to you what you, the Greens and the SPÖ, said on the occasion of the election of President Fierce. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: Reading!]] As a ‘poisoned bait’, Mrs. Stoisits referred to him as ‘housemaster’, he was called by Wabl and Voggenhuber. The SPÖ has said that at the time – I think it was Klubobmann Fuhrmann at the time – he will not serve the reputation of this House and the Republic if he is elected to this function. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Unbelievable!]] I can literally quote it to you, I took out the speeches and could quote any single word. And like you argue today! The image of Fierce has also changed significantly among the opposition parties today: It is viewed in all camps of Austria over all dimensions. I think that can be said, and he also deserves it not to start with polemics, but to say a great thank you to him at this point today that he has provided the Republic of Austria with such excellent services. And I'd be glad if the opposition would go along with it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It's embarrassing that you're not even ready for a applause for Dr. Fierce during this hour. That shows your attitude! This shows a little of how your mind is actually. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] That's the same way you keep it with Moser now. Moser – and everyone who knows him, and most of the people in this House know him will confirm it – is undoubtedly an excellent man to whom no one can dispute his competence, who has a dynamic, who shows the use of work, and who has also understood how to acquire confidence wherever he has acted to the extent that one can say: This man has handshake quality! – They present him today as if he were in a dire light, as if one could not trust him and as if he were in any case inappropriate. They're doing hair exactly the same thing you did 12 years ago. But what you actually do with it is that you do the Considering this important State Office questioning that you are damaging the reputation of this State Office. At the latest on the election day, one should distance one from it and should not act with prejudices, but with legitimate judgment – also critically – this is quite true of an opposition, but this is so that one can look into the eye afterwards and that not suddenly something completely different. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Thank you for granting us this!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I ask myself why Mr Klubobmann Cap goes out here, why he is speaking here in this way, which is actually deplorable in this situation. I am absolutely convinced that people do not understand that they want us to be able to think beyond party boundaries, that we are also willing to give a man a confidence advance, that we are also able to think first of the reputation of the Republic and not only of the reputation of the Party. [[Abg. May. Worm: What does this candidate mean “thinking beyond the party boundaries ”?]] Why is he going out? Mr. Klubobmann Cap! I would like to ask you a question: If you have not considered it worth acting on a cross-party basis in such a way that at least the opposition represents a joint candidate, if you have not even succeeded in winning a single MP from the other opposition party for your candidate, or if on the other hand no one representative of the SPÖ has voted for the Greens' candidates, Mayer, please, do you expect us to recognise that? Then you really expect us to trust you with government? - It can't be. Mr Klubobmann Cap, if you are unable to find a candidate for such an office, who can also receive a majority across parties, then you are unable to bear responsibility for this Republic. And if you still accuse the others of that, then you are incapable! I would like to tell you this clearly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Very unscrupulous!]] I'd like to bring you a few quotes. I'll tell you what serious people say about Moser's person. About Hans Winkler in the “Small Newspaper”, who writes: “Still competence, unobtrusive ambition... All who had to deal with Moser as club director praise his competence and expertise, his political attention, but also the consequence of pursuing his goals." That's what an independent journalist says. A second voice: What do the “Salzburger Nachrichten” say, which are not a special fan of this government coalition? – There you can read: “It was even worse 12 years ago when the last time a top Republic controller was looking for it and was found in Franz Fierce. ... The fact that Franz Fiedler, who emerged from these ruins, was an excellent President of the Court of Auditors, who, on the eve of the SPÖ and the Greens, was just overburdened with praise, is one of the lucky cases of politics. It may also be that Josef Moser, whom the coalition parties nominated on Wednesday after a multi-hour hearing as new President of the Court of Auditors, will be such a lucky case.” What does the “Kronen Zeitung ” say? – “Moser has so far been attested by all parliamentary parties to be a very accurate and fair expert.” What does the “curer ” write? – “Josef Moser is a good man. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, and not only was it from the outset – Moser has entered this discussion as a favorite – but he has also shown this impressively in the hearing. What Moser presented there was brilliant. I was particularly impressed that he also called very clear priorities. What does he want to do? He said that, first of all, he wanted to intensify cooperation between the Court of Auditors and Parliament. This is also my view: The Court of Auditors is Parliament's most important control body, which is why this should be intensified. What else does Moser want? . He wants a precise demarcation to the European Court of Justice and, on the other hand, to the other review bodies of the federal states. In find, in a federal state like Austria this is absolutely important. Thirdly, What else does he want? – He wants to speed up the reports. We all suffered from the fact that the reports came too late. He has set himself this goal, and I also trust him to achieve it. And that's why we'll give him the confidence. Finally, I would like to address this request for confidence not only to my own colleagues in the political groups, but also to the colleagues from the SPÖ and the Greens. Ladies and gentlemen! Be ready to choose for this independent office a man who is willing and able to exercise this office accordingly! [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: The club director in the house was!]] For example, I first found out in the hearing that he was not even a member of the FPÖ. Moser has worked for the FPÖ, but as a person he has proven so much independence that he has not even become a member. I think that's good for you. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Why? Should all your employees be party members?]] Jump over your shadow! Give him the confidence too! Show that you don't just follow a tactical variant of your clubman. Support the reputation of the President of the Court of Auditors, and you will be able to express the same praise over Moser's office in a few months, as you have done so far over those whales after he has been stamped into the ground and ground when ordering him.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e6383	The next speaker was Mr Mag. Kogler. His speaking time is 15 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e6403	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen from all four political groups. The Assembly of the National Council is responsible for the election of the President of the Court of Auditors. This task now faces all those present, and I would actually appeal to you to remember what the proceedings that led to this proposal were and to ask whether there would have been any practices that would have produced a clearer result, which could have been a real four-party result, for the benefit of the Court of Auditors and the Republic, and also whether the train really has already left. That is why I appeal to you to ask whether we should really understand this step proposed by the main committee to the plenary in this way. – I am now justifying this with various processes in the run-up to this possible order. [[Abg. Neudeck: The chairman chooses his boss!]] So who's the boss of who, colleague Neudeck? At this point we see again what strange understanding you have. [[Abg. Scheibner: He believes that of you!]] Parliament is the institution of the Republic which has the Court of Auditors as an extended arm – and not the other way round! But it is not about whether we choose someone alone here, but about whether a unanimous choice would have been possible or still possible. And that was always the initiative and the proposal of the Greens. [[Abg. Neudeck: Unlike Van der Bellen, you were at the hearing!]] I have to criticise my predecessor Fassleven on this point when he speaks here on one side of party politics and on the other side of party freedom. There have been enough initiatives and attempts to find a solution that someone takes over the office of the President of the Court of Auditors, who does not have the secretariat of the head of state, which does not come through the head of the club of the FPÖ or similar links. You know very well that there has been a lot of efforts to propose to the plenary one, as I mean, far-off, but very political and high-level experts. And we understand this by way of party-free – and not what you have explained here, Mr Fassleven! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But it is not in principle a question of not even being allowed to become something with a party book in Austria, but rather of something quite different, namely that in this difficult situation – admittedly, for all political groups – a solution could have been found that even the government would have helped to get out of its own self – that is really something – already leased post checker corner. There would have been these possibilities! After this fatal EU election, however, you have fled to get what can be achieved again in a last run, and now we have the result. I think that's the wrong process, but you put it on from home. It was always the proposal that we call the candidates before the EU election to Parliament. You have managed with your majority to do the whole thing after the EU election. Explain to the people why the nomination of Court of Auditors Presidency candidates is related to the date of the EU election! [[Abg. Scheibner: That's what you notice now that it was right!]] This can only be in some way related to your course of action, and it was also: The more FPÖ loses in the EU's election, the more it needs to be compensated for afterwards, so that it does not become more head-shake than it is anyway. – And this is a bad condition for the appointment of a President of the Court of Auditors! That was the first cardinal mistake. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] For twelve years it has been known that this day, the 30th. June, will come, and you've managed to wait until two days before that. I find this unpleasant to the outgoing President, but I also find it bad with the new one, no matter who it is. In any case, it is an expression of the fact that you only rely on your party policy tactics more than on how you can enslave yourself from date to date and your remaining few principles of government policy. In this case, it is stunned and clearly a very ordinational post chess, this accusation is not to be spared to you! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Now there was an attempt to make this so-called hearing public in the main committee for many good reasons. This is difficult to deal with, but reversible. Everyone and anyone who would have been good will could have solved the problem, the proposals were on the table. [[Abg. Großruck: The Rules of Procedure are not there to be transhiped!]] But the majority here in the house, the government groups have prevented a public hearing. In retrospect, we also know why. We've already believed that the whole thing has some sense. I say quite frankly to you: If I had known beforehand what you were doing here under the direction of the government parties in the main committee for acting, I would have recommended that my group not participate in it at all, and we would have considered whether we were nominating a candidate at all. You too should have considered whether you were sending people there in order to get lost in this way, I almost have to say. [[Abg. Neudeck: Mr Pilz would not have left!]] That was a farce, an ominous spectacle, I never want to see it again in Parliament! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is a matter of party policy, but that the most important committee in Parliament is acting for such a show is the low point, and so were the comments in retrospect: Depth and shame for the main committee and for Parliament! And this has to be done by the majority of the government groups, and I am unfortunately not in a position to exclude the Presidents of Parliament either. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] You know exactly what it was like: Contrary to all the pre-arrangements, the order has been picked off in advance. If you had at least said that, you would have said: It is only possible to take a candidate proposed by the FPÖ. Then we'd have saved the hearing. It was not true that the opposition would have said with political naïveness: Let's make a hearing, the best win! We have already pointed out in advance that this scenario is threatening, and we have urged you to expressly take the path of party negotiations in this case. But you have organized a pseudo-hearing, in which you have gnawed seven people in Parliament, six of whom had no chance at all. But you have rejected our proposal. One might have hoped that this hearing would have any meaning. In retrospect, it turns out it had a sense. I can predict a result of this hearing: Again with your majority, by the way, an express one-proposal has been made to the plenary. [[Abg. May. Molterer: This is according to business regulations!]] Do you know who liked this lot? . That very candidate who has not answered the honourable Member's questions in a hearing is the subject of the national council's plenary and the one-off proposal imposed on you! [[Abg. Neudeck: That's not true!]] You have been deprived of your choice, you may only choose more those who have shownly not answered the questions. That's it! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] All of this you could have saved yourself, the opposition, especially the candidates and finally the public. Now we are faced with the situation that there is a proposal here, in view of which we can only sum up more: If you really want to look at this honestly and save the whole thing, then you have to get back to the start! – That is why there will be a referral request today. This proposal from the main committee should not be voted on, but should be referred back to the main committee, with the honest effort to try the whole thing again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] If there is already a hearing, then this should be carried out honestly – or one decides on party negotiations, as we originally suggested. [[Abg. Neudeck: We choose until it is yours, then you are satisfied!]] But what you've got here right now is not right. If you now accept this proposal in a secret vote, you have caused the greatest possible damage to Parliament and, ultimately, that is to be feared, to the Court of Auditors. You can go for another two hours, and perhaps one or the other of you will also apply the Courage, at least in secret elections to this proposal alone because of this completely curved procedure will not give the consent and save the whole thing again. That's why I'm appealing to you at this point in the matter myself: If we turn to this hearing, we have to say that the proposed candidate has raised some huge problems. [[Abg. Wittauer: He has a name!]] – He has the name Dr. Moser; thank you very much. – Dr. Moser is a staff member, head manager of HL-AG, with the day of hearing he would have been intended for the ÖBB-Holding. It is probably just a coincidence that the designated candidate for the ÖBB holding should have signed his contract – the Minister of Transport behind me knows – on this day or shortly thereafter. By the way, this is also a huge problem in the ÖBB. Mr. Vice-Chancellor, you have said for yourself that the story with Dr. Moser will soon be too much for you. He was supposed to focus on something. He may want to show what he can in the ÖBB, and you also want to save yourself the processes that are now starting there. [[Abg. Neudeck: If he's so bad, the ÖBB must be happy!]] Now you have to look for a manager again – and by the way, a few blue candidates and no one else are in the conversation. The Chairman of the ÖBB says: The whole thing is a farce of the Supervisory Board! And you have also intervened in this rupture. If so, the problem will be known to you. Dr. Moser was responsible at HL-AG from 2002 to 2004 and was responsible for preparing the ÖBB reform. One of the most important areas of review in the Court of Auditors is transport, the public transport sector. How will he behave? – This will be very difficult. [[Abg. Neudeck: You are not consistent in your consideration!]] At least for the years 2002 to 2004 he will have to be caught if he is serious. That's the first problem. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Neudeck.]] The next problem is – you did not want to see that in the Committee, but –: Mr. Klubdirector Dr. Moser, the director of FPÖ, Dr. Moser was not a club director, but – to be seen from his application – he was also responsible for coordinating government work. In the years 2000 to 2002, Dr. Moser was responsible for the government documents here in the house, and perhaps also for some specific government project that should be clicked on to the honourable Member here. Don't you derive a partiality from that? – The coordination of government activity is something that has to do with government! This may not be the case with the FPÖ, but at least it seems to me that there is a certain degree of partiality here. [[Abg. Scheibner: You do not know that, you cannot speak with it.]] Next point: the so-called regulations in his manager and pension contract. It's about the contract stencil regulation. The Court of Auditors shall criticise them seriously and regularly. How will a future President of the Court of Auditors, Dr. Moser, behave in this matter? – We will be very excited if he is elected today. I think there's a sharp inconsistency here. The Court of Auditors, in its reports, regularly pointed out in the review of public undertakings that these problems exist in most firms. Dr. Fierce was very committed here, and now we get a President of the Court of Auditors, who himself has the greatest malheur with it. Last point: A President of the Court of Auditors, who is on record whether he is involved in illegal party financing or not, no matter how the case would have continued or had gone out of court, can say nothing but: I'm not a plastic sacker, I have to say, it's a little thin. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not true!]] – Of course that’s true, you obviously weren’t always there. [[Abg. Scheibner: I've been there already!]] The quote has fallen several times and is securitised: I'm not a plastic sack! – Congratulations if this is the main qualification! That's why I'm asking: Back to the start! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] You always bring Dr. Fierce as a comparison. – Dr. Fiedler may have had a certain amount of ÖVP sewing, but he had been Vice-President of the Court of Auditors for six years, and Dr. Fiedler has never maintained such a loyalty relationship with essential politicians from the government coalition. [[Abg. Scheibner: The rule of law is a foreign word for you!]] That's the problem. Capable or not capable – I am not talking about this now. We have had seven candidates, of which everyone would have been more capable than Dr. Moser, only because the others wanted to answer the questions, and because no one in this way is in a loyalty conflict like Dr. Moser. But you have to deal with the problem with yourself, you have to answer it. And that's why this comparison with Fierce is completely wrong. Of course, everyone can profile themselves in this function. This is another matter, but one must not, in advance, choose those who have the greatest concerns and are not willing to answer the questions raised by Members. You should be interested if you want to vote with “yes” here today.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e6708	Deputies! Your speaking time has expired! The closing sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e6726	Madam President. Were those 15 minutes? - Well, then I can thank you. [[President Mag. Prammer: Yes!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e6764	As the next speaker, Mrs Bleckmann is speaking. Your speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e6782	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! If Mr Kogler says that there were no answers in the Committee on Questions, he may not have followed the entire hearing quite or a little unilaterally. There has always been the same answer to the same question: Mr Moser has clearly said that these accusations are not true! If you don't want to hear that, it's your problem. You always hear what you want to hear. But he said clearly there: The accusations do not vote! You know exactly, Members can ask what they want, and the experts can also give the answers they want. It is probably understandable that the same question is always given the same answer. For you, a result is only right if what you want comes true. If you keep right, then it was right and then it was right if you didn't keep right, it's post chess and packing and what I know. Unfortunately, one cannot choose democracy. There are now also other rules of play. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Now to Mr Cap, to Mr Klubobmann: I'm a little disappointed about how you're working here and how you're talking. You're working with infame regulations, which you can say here from this speaker's desk, because you're immune, you're throwing a candidate into it by accusing him of things that he himself has said are not right, of which you all know that the surveys have been set, because, according to our jurisdiction, nothing is detectable. And I think you're on that floor, too. It's all been set. You yourself say “adult transports” because you yourself know that it is not true, but you are trying to break a already closed case back to the daylight, although there is nothing. You know that nothing is behind it, that it's just untenable notions of yours that we don't allow. They are showing desperate scandals. They themselves know that only after the death of the Industrial Turnauer was spoken about these things. Neither in his books nor in the party were all these money you're talking about found. And someone who is already dead can unfortunately no longer give an opinion on whether or not there would have been any party donations. And that's exactly what's objectionable: Things that are completed, which are finished by our justice, will be disturbed by you again to throw a candidate who doesn't fit you, and to make you bad. And on the other hand, let us keep our trust! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] They speak of SPÖ and Greens speak of a public hearing. To that end, I say: Just this discussion, as she started Klubobmann Cap, shows that it was good not to hold a public hearing, good for all seven candidates, but especially for those six candidates who will not come to this position, because they should have been publicly shown, would have been transported even wider into the media and now all should return to their jobs or advertise themselves again for jobs in the future. That is why I also say in the sense of your candidates: It is good and right that there has not been any public hearing, as this discussion, as it is happening today and will certainly be carried on by colleagues Pilz. It is good that the candidates – which we all consider to be good, but it must be one of the best – did not have to face this. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Post chess behind upholstery doors!]] I say to you: I would no longer like to see the way in which Mr Pilz argued in committee. Moreover, as a member of a not exactly large party, he spoke out of his “great” concept of democracy: He doesn't talk to a party with only 4 percent! – I have to repeat this, he then took it back, but not even with regret. It is his concept of democracy and his way of drawing out things that are simply no longer up-to-date and that are not in accordance with the truth. This is your way of doing this! It is therefore good that this has not been discussed in the public and that it has now also ended. Now to the hearing, ladies and gentlemen. Twelve years ago, the liberals voted in opposition to a government candidate, because he was the best in hearing. This is a criterion, and this also makes a hearing to see who corresponds exactly to the conditions that are laid down as conditions. As a Freedom Party, we require some conditions: We want a comprehensive qualification, independence, someone who can spend 12 years dynamically, who has competence and also presents a package of measures with objectives. Mr Moser has complied with all these conditions that we demand from the liberals and has the necessary qualifications. He was the only candidate to have a truly comprehensive qualification, namely: Parliamentary experience – this is important because it is particularly important for Members – administrative experience, especially financial management experience such as none of the candidates had – an experience that is of particular importance in the Court of Auditors – and he still has – what most of the other candidates did not have – private economic experience. He has proven that he has extensive management qualifications. – This is a truly comprehensive qualification that he has demonstrated. Dr. Moser has also made very credible – even if you don't want to hear it – that he is really acting independently. He has every function – and one can understand that according to his CV – in which he was always filled in as best possible, also his function as club director, but he is not – like so many others! – became a party member. In so far as he was, as Fiedler was, a club secretary, but clearly presented his independence. That is why I ask the SPÖ again: What do you want? Are you? First, you say that you want to take one who can complete the office seriously, also against the government, i.e. a – quote colleague Cap – who is of course independent. But then say in the main committee – you change your mind within three days, if not even in your speech here –: But party membership must not be an obstacle! – Citation Cap, also in the main committee. So: What do you want now? How do you want it? Your colleague, Mr Novotny, would not at all be in line with what you said today, namely to be independent. But someone who has been active in the SPÖ for so long and still is today cannot comply with this independence at all. You must note that your candidate, Novotny, could never meet your criterion you first mentioned! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! For us too, it is important for someone to take over the office, which can actually last twelve years. It was important to us in the last novel that not for two years, but for twelve years, that a genuine independence can be granted by the abandonment of re-election, and that the candidate is also young and dynamic enough to pass through these twelve years. – Look If you are looking at the age of the other candidates, you know that they – except for a candidate – would not have met these criteria. We also expect competence. From the CV of Dr. Moser, this is evident, as it is from many newspaper articles, from newspapers that are certainly not close to the FPÖ. For example, the “standard” says: ‘No question that the 48-year-old is capable and competent.’ “Like Franz Fiedler... you also have to admit to Moser that he can lead the office correctly.” – That written by a newspaper that is certainly not free. Or: “Kurier”: “Moses... is considered to be transitory, loyal and competent, but also hard in the matter.” – Yes, loyal in the position he is currently holding, and that is the important thing! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Loyal?- Oh, my God!]] As President of the Court of Auditors, he will be loyal to the Court of Auditors and thus to the House. You'll see that's what it's gonna be like. In this respect, the appointment of the President of the Court of Auditors is a question of competence, and the question arises: Who really sets clear targets and proposes measures? They all who were present in the Hearing have experienced it: Moser was the only one who has presented a very concrete package of measures with objectives that corresponds to what we want. Would you not like to extend and not deepen cooperation between Parliament and the Court of Auditors with a reduction in the period between the beginning of the examination and reporting here in Parliament? Do you not want to deepen or strengthen cooperation and coordination with other control facilities? – This too is a focus for Dr. Moser. Dr. Moser also aims to strengthen public confidence in the Court of Auditors and to increase the efficiency of this control body. I mean, these are really good, concrete goals, which he called as the only one of the candidates and also really presented them optimally. That is why we say: Dr. Moser is for us the candidate who is really the best suited, who also sets higher standards in itself. I may refer briefly to his contract of employment at this point. He said that in his current position he reduced his salary to that of a vice director, and thus took less than his predecessor, who had been nominated from your circles. He has not applied for an ÖBB-pension, he has given up the chauffeur that he is entitled to, and he will receive less Gage as President of the Court of Auditors than he is currently receiving from the ÖBB.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e6856	Ladies and gentlemen, please come to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e6878	I'm sure – that's my last sentence: After the twelve-year term of office of Dr. Moser they will be the same as To Dr. Fiedler say: He was a good candidate! – I am quite sure of that!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e6910	The next item is the report by Mr Herz, Member of Parliament. His speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e6928	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! Mrs Bleckmann, you, of course, as Secretary-General of your party, know exactly what was really planned. It was really planned to make State Secretary Alfred Finz the President of the Court of Auditors, and your party would have been compensated with some posts. Only: Finz has become unbearable, he has disqualified himself. [[Call out to the liberals: a beautiful stupidity, what you're saying!]] I would remind you, Mr President, of the White-Wash action in the Causa Grasser. [[Abg. Neudeck: This is 30 years of social-democratic politics, what you are telling!]] Yes, Mr Neudeck, the domestic journalists of Austria have laughed at the persillic acid distribution of Mr Finz, so he has become unbearable and has therefore come to the present situation. Ladies and gentlemen! Finz has not only disqualified himself for the Office of the President of the Court of Auditors and has become unbearable for it, but, if you ask me, he is unbearable for any office in the Republic of Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Molterer.]] Mr. Molterer, there are accusations against Dr. Moser for privileges in connection with pensions and discharges and so on that he picks the raisins out of the cake. – A few years ago, when the FPÖ was still in opposition, what would Dr. Haider have done, pension privileges, settlements and so on would have been in play? He would have jumped meters high, would have watered over Bonzen and Privilege Knights and demanded everyone to step back immediately! But what is it today, ladies and gentlemen? What does Carinthian head of state Jörg Haider say today? Carinthian head of state Jörg Haider – quote – “is enthusiastic about Moser”. “We in Carinthia can be proud of it. Everyone who knows him knows that...” Ladies and gentlemen! The former followers of Haider turn it around the stomach when they hear and read it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs Bleckmann, you spoke of SPÖ’s “infamens” to Dr. Moser. So, please, dry your crocodile tears very quickly, because I only remember the year 1992. What did Dr. Haider made at that time – because of “infamation”? Werner Doralt, a very honorable man, a good candidate back then, university professor in Innsbruck: Dr. Haider put him in the vicinity of corruption, later everything was clear, everything was free and not true! – It was contemptuous what Dr. Haider did back then. [[Abg. Dr. Bleckmann: What are you doing?]] So dry your crocodile tears! It's totally unbelievable what you're saying here, Mrs. Bleckmann! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, we are still with privileges, which are particularly interested in workers, who, according to Bartenstein, should now work longer and earn less! Stay with privileges, with pensioners, pensioners, with the older generation! Federal Chancellor Schüssel has promised an increase in pensions in expensive ads at the beginning of the year. What is the sad truth? – If the older generation is looking at their salary bills today, there is a minute ahead, and of course you are responsible for this, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] [[Abg. Großruck: Since when do pensioners have a salary bill?]] With Dr. Moser this is quite different: 100 000 € discharge – 100 000 € contrary to the contract stencil regulation – a pension commitment with indebtedness. – Ladies and gentlemen! There is a legal order against privileges, designed by Dr. Franz Fiedler. Franz Fiedler has not been very easy to lure out of the reserve, has not been very quick about something outraged, but when managers in the near-state area enjoyed unjustified privileges, President Fiedler was also often very, very hard and critical. Dr. Moser has such privileges, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Neudeck: Where?]] How does he want to review such a thing in the future? Do you want to make the bock a gardener? – Dr. Haider is excited, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Scheibner: Which privileges?]] [[Abg. Neudeck: What do he have for privileges?]] Now from Dr. Haider to Dr. Khol – it's a very short way. [[Abg. Scheibner: Which privileges does he have in contrast to your people?]] [[Abg. Neudeck: What do he have for privileges?]] He does not comply with the contract stencil regulation, Mr Neudeck, you need to know that you can read it. [[Abg. Neudeck: This is an intolerable claim!]] All of Austria, ladies and gentlemen, knows that the President of the Court of Auditors of ÖVP and FPÖ has been packed out. It would be curious if it weren't so sad. Mr. Fassleven quoted Winkler. Hans Winkler is a renowned Austrian journalist, an honorable conservative observer of Austrian domestic policy. Winkler wrote in the “Small Newspaper” – you should read the right quotes, Mr Fassleven; I quote –: “The FPÖ is almost dead.” – Again: Quote Hans Winkler, who just called Fassleven Fassleven an independent journalist. Winkler continues: “This also makes no use of all the political kindnesses, such as the unsealed appointment of a FPÖ man as the President of the Court of Auditors, through which the ÖVP has severely damaged its democratic reputation.” – citations. That's how it looks, Mr Fassl evening! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] However, ladies and gentlemen, it does not only damage the democratic reputation of the ÖVP, but also that of Parliament and the Republic of Austria! What does National Council President Andreas Khol say about this? – to be read in the “standard” on the definition of the “standard”: "The appointment of Josef Moser as President of the Court of Auditors smells like a shift. It's been a long time. Isn’t that a proper package?” On this point, President of the National Council, Khol: ‘I am not known that there had been agreements. It doesn’t seem to me either.” Ladies and gentlemen, that really speaks for itself! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] A sad chapter in Austrian domestic policy! This “medicine”, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, the President of the Court of Auditors and you give to the FPÖ, will only briefly extend the FPÖ’s victory – and this “medicine” has side effects. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] The FPÖ, Mr Scheibner, will have long since passed away, and the ÖVP will still suffer from the side effects. It is an anti-democratic “outcast” that you are drawing here today – and this makes you extremely unattractive for voters in the future! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Be a little more careful with your strange remarks!]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us look at the CV of Dr. Moser! Dr. Moser was the club director of the Free Parliament Club and responsible for coordinating the government activities between the coalition parties and the individual resorts; of course also in connection with the transport resort. Since 2000, this has been a dizzying turning door for incompetent FPÖ personnel! I would just like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, of the coalition parties: In this place once a Mr. Schmid tried, then the untold Mrs. Forstinger, Mr. Reichhold, then Gorbach. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck]] – There, FPÖ club director Dr. Moser was responsible for coordination. Later, Moser is already active in the transport sector as a manager. That's what he's doing! This should not be partial, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties?- Oh, my God! If a President of the Court of Auditors now controls Dr. Moser's transport policy in Austria, he must give himself a terrible witness! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear Ladies and gentlemen! The President of the Court of Auditors shall also be responsible for reviewing party financing, the use of these funds as appropriate. Dr. Moser was also responsible for this as a FPÖ club director – I do not want to talk about the yet unexplained cases now! That is inconceivable in a classical sense! Dr. Moser can't do two or three years later to check what he himself has to do! Therefore, the last chance for reason: to return to the main committee once again! Perhaps Mr Großruck will also vote in favour of my request, which I am now submitting, Madam President: Request by Deputies Dr. Kräub, Mag. Kogler, colleagues and colleagues on referral back to the main committee report on the reimbursement of a proposal for the election of the President/President of the Court of Auditors (559, e.g.) The signed delegates apply in accordance with § 53 para. 6 Z 2 GOG, the top 3 of the National Council meeting on Monday, 28. June 2004 on the Committee Report 559, d.b. to refer the matter back to committee. Estimated Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ! Although they claim that Dr. Moser would have been the best in hearing, they have tried by all means to prevent this hearing from happening publicly and the population itself can make a picture. Mr Scheibner, I have been in the Committee on the Court of Auditors since 1991, is the most elderly Member there, and I will now tell you something. [[Abg. Scheibner: What was 1992?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Did you hold a public hearing in 1992 if you already speak so well?]] Dr. Moser has presented himself in the main committee as a nervous speaker who has come to sweat properly: with privileges, partiality and with his affairs! – Professor Hengstschlager and Professor Mayer, on the other hand, have presented themselves competently, very objectively and as quite appropriate, but a class for themselves, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ – and all of them know that – was Professor Ewald Nowotny! [[Abg. Neudeck: Was the Novotny!]] That was a truly sovereign idea, which must be said, also as regards conception and Dr. Novotny's economic and financial competence! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Painful!]] Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, what voters do not want? – That the powerful that the government itself controls! You, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties, will be held responsible if you do so – and the bill will be presented to you at the next National Council elections!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e7263	The next item is the speech by Mr Gahr. You have a speech time of 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e7281	Madam President, Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Today's election of the President of the Court of Auditors is only about making a good decision for the next twelve years in relation to control in our state. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Exactly!]] It is not about calculating politically, but we must choose the most suitable person for this important position. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Exactly!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,]] Colleagues of herbs have told a story about Dr. Finz today, and I can only say: Yes, it has, as it were, come back to the main committee, but it is likely that this does not reflect the seriousness and responsibility of the main committee. President Dr. Fierce has managed the State's control system well for over 12 years: through continuity, with caution and competence. – Today's candidate Dr. Moser certainly also brings this competence with him, and he will do this well to continue this activity. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] There is a saying that reads: “A look into the past is worth it if it serves the future.” – Today I have quotes from the minutes on the last appointment of the President of the Court of Auditors, and some of them, ladies and gentlemen, are just too revealing. Based on this stenographic protocol, you can see very well how Dr. Fierce was criticized at the time. – Today, on the other hand, when he adopts it, Dr. Fiedler is praised by everyone! So everyone should think about what was said at that time or what is fact! Mr Kogler, we cannot agree with your request for referral back to committee that this would be irrational, because that meant, on 1 January 1989. There would be no President of the Court of Auditors in Austria on July! We really cannot answer for the future of our country! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Since today it was claimed that Mr. Dr. Moser had not answered questions. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Exactly!]] – I am glad that there was no public hearing there, because these were not questions, but submissions, statements that would have exposed themselves, but: [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] The public has really not deserved such precepts! The decision was therefore taken in 1992; 93: 90 for Dr. Fierce was the result of the vote. In a very short time, President Fiedler had found many friends and supporters and, as I believe, fair partners. Dr. Moser will develop this confidence; Trust is not given, you have to work hard. This election today is the first advance of confidence of ÖVP and FPÖ, so I assume – but perhaps some Members of the opposition decide to go there – to send Dr. Moser in this race for the next twelve years. Dr. Josef Moser will act as a competent examiner and adviser to the Court of Auditors. It will certainly do a constructive job in the Court of Auditors, Mr Kogler, under your chairmanship – I say quite openly: Dr Moser will do this too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This hearing of last week was called by colleague Dr. Cap as farce. – I have to congratulate all seven candidates here: They all tried very hard, they were all extremely competent; many things were brought in. I have actually seen this hearing in such a way that the ideas, statements and contents of this hearing are quite a task for our future work in the Court of Auditors Committee. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I would like to thank all the candidates who have come to Parliament. It is not natural to make yourself available, because there is the exhibition, in the shop window! – Again: This great hearing has brought a lot to our work in the Court of Auditors. The only thing that perhaps didn't fit in with this hearing from my point of view was actually my colleague Pilz, from which I would have expected more style and level. [[Abg. Neudeck: I didn't expect it, I would have hoped it!]] – Yes, we have hoped, colleague. In the run-up to this hearing, many things were exchanged. For example, colleague Gusenbauer and colleague Van der Bellen claimed that our National Council President Khol had said the untruth or was to be disavowed by his own party. I'm putting the APA message right here: ‘Coal: Franz Fiedler has marked this office in the sense of an independent non-party president. I think one will not pay attention to party membership, but to the expertise: A President of the Court of Auditors must know the administration of the inside, he must understand economic contexts, and he should have smelled into the world outside a political function. Services for former members of the government are passé. There is no longer any such thing.” This is also the case with the statement by Secretary of State Finz, which was mentioned here today, that it is also to be acquitted again. The accusations of the package are political hack from our point of view. Dr. Moser should be attached by all means. I personally believe that the FPÖ is a very powerful, competent candidate this time and we can go with it because we are sure that Dr. Moser... – colleague One, I have read your newspaper quote, but in the press a lot of untruth is also spread. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. One.]] I can't understand. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We support Dr. Moser because we consider him to be the right person for this important task. We do not criminalise people in advance, but give them an advance of confidence. Politics needs decisions. The decision for Dr. Moser was correct if you don't want to see it that way. To the person of Dr. Moser: It meets 100 percent of the professional qualifications. He has professional experience as an official in the finance management. He knows politics. He knows procedures in the state. I claim that Dr. Moser will keep the start-up losses very low, and the work can start immediately. We can therefore continue to actively pursue the work of the Court of Auditors. The main committee also claimed that the FPÖ club had raised Moser here. We see Dr. Moser applied as much as all the other candidates. No one should be Dr. Moser's final assessment. Evidence is the work he is doing, and it will be measured in the future. The Court of Auditors was well placed under Dr. Vielen. In view of the current football events, one can say: The comparison with a team leader is appropriate. There's a team-leader change, there's a good team with a lot of potential, and a new boss will bring new momentum. We know him, and we know what he can do. It will also meet the expectations of it and ensure that tax resources are used sparingly and effectively. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: At the football!]] – Voluntary? At football, but with Dr. Moser, this won't happen, Mr. Cot. It will continue to maintain confidence in public administration and control in the future. We need to show savings in the near-state area, we must be objective and transparent in the award of public contracts. In the future, however, the Court of Auditors must, above all, be allowed to question state structures closely. It has already been emphasized here today: If we had made the structural reforms at ÖBB, at police and at Gendarmerie earlier, we could have saved some of them. Dr. Fiedler has always given this recommendation. We may have been following these recommendations too late. I hope that this will be better in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Today, it is about the state's control that remains independent, the quality of control is constantly being improved and Austria's Court of Auditors' reputation, which it enjoys both domestically and abroad, remains in the future. That's why we support Dr. Moser. He's the right man for this important position! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e7447	Before I give the floor to Mr Dr Pilz, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we will come to the final round of speakers during the television period. I will therefore allow myself – we need exactly 35 minutes – to scrutinize precisely and also interrupt you. Deputy Pilz! Your speaking time is 10 minutes as soon as you are at the speaker's desk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e7481	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This subject, which touches you so deeply, is something that, in the opinion of the government parties and of Dr. Moser, there is no such thing as this. [[The speaker points to the plastic sackerl]] What are you excited about? – There was no plastic sack, and there was also no evidence of what was in the plastic sack according to the information of witnesses in court statements. None of this is true because there is no plastic sack, because there is no 5 million schilling, because there must be no illegal party funding of the Freedom Party. Only if there is no plastic sack, if there is no 5 million schilling and if there has been no illegal party funding of the Freedom Party by Dr. Moser, can he become the President of the Court of Auditors, and therefore there is simply no real existing plastic sackerl for you. [[Abg. Scheibner: We are in a rule of law! There's something you need to prove, not vice versa!]] I claim: A plastic sack is a plastic sack, illegal party funding is illegal party funding, and an inappropriate candidate for the President of the Court of Auditors is also an inappropriate candidate for majority fractions in this House! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: The BILLA will have no joy with the mushroom!]] The accusations against Dr. Moser do not come from us and are not inventions of the opposition. Do you know when the name Dr. Moser first appeared in connection with illegal party funding? – In the report of the Economic Police on the top-level cowardry. The first witnesses are given, and it is pointed out that the personal secretary of Dr. Haider had made a telephone call to stop talking about these 5 million and simply deny it. Nevertheless, he who has been called, namely the personal chauffeur of Dr. Haider, has told the economic police under the duty of truth. This statement lies with you, lies with us, there are many. She's been publicly discussed. Someone here, without being able to expect any advantage, has severely burdened Mr. Dr. Moser, among other things. It's not done with you saying you just don't notice. [[Abg. Scheibner: It's about the rule of law! Has something come out of the question? - That's what it's all about!]] It is not about you, it is not about the majority of the government, it is not about the personal future of Dr. Moser, it is about the reputation and integrity of one of the most important institutions of this Republic and one of the most important instruments of the Austrian National Council. I expect you to give the Court of Auditors this respect and care in dealing with his reputation, which the officials there and finally the National Council deserve as his client. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr. Dr. Moser does not have his problems because he has done anything – and I say that quite openly at this point – which would be a serious violation of criminal law, otherwise he would probably have to answer himself in the face of Bohemian and in the face of others in court, but Dr. Moser took advantage of a loophole. This is purely criminally his good right. As a club director of the FPÖ and as one of the experts for free party financing in the grey zone, in order to formulate this very, very carefully, he knew very well that, unlike the Federal Republic of Germany, the Austrian law on party financing has a large loophole. Indeed, there is no criminal provision for illegal party funding. Whoever does this in Germany, what Dr. Moser has done with Dr. Haider and others quite clearly – at least he is suspected of having done so – would definitely have to expect consequences, because that is punishable in the Federal Republic of Germany and would be a reason for a trial. – There is no penalty for this with us. [[Abg. Neudeck: The Greens will change that!]] So in the worst case, the prosecutor says: Yes, that is really not all right, that is also contrary to the law, but I'm sorry, I can't pursue this case because of a lack of criminal law! I assume your experienced club director Dr. Moser knew this loophole very well. Everything we currently know from the court and specifically from the court statements indicates that he has also used the loophole. – Yes, but does that qualify him for the office of the President of the Court of Auditors that he is able to use loopholes, the former federal governments for bad reasons – and not all of these federal governments were involved in liberties, that must be said –? Let’s stick to the topic of loopholes: The contract of service, including the way in which Mr. Dr. Moser combined the best of the ÖBB Treaty and the best of the Civil Service Treaty with Parliament in a way that the Court of Auditors has warned of for years and says that this practice should be discontinued – yes, even here he has used gaps in the law again – let me ask the question: Does that qualify him as the President of the Court of Auditors, or does it not make him the case for the Court of Auditors? Would it not be useful for a truly independent President or an independent President of the Court of Auditors to be able to really examine officials' private economics directors with mixed pension and salary rights in the same way as they are examined so that privileges in this area can also be eliminated? Now Dr. Moser remains the government coordinator – someone you seriously expect to examine himself and the fruits of his government coordination in recent years as President? A specialist for loopholes in party financing should control party financing? A specialist for loopholes in anti-privilege legislation is supposed to control the privileges? A specialist in government coordination and implementation of government policy – no matter how much it is to be assessed – should the results of this government policy be monitored? – I would rather make a hundred goats a gardener than Dr. Moser the President of the Court of Auditors, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Some members of the government love excursions into literature, I've done it so far. I have been reminded of one thing. In his statement of his privilege contract – this mixture of ÖBB/parliamentary management, i.e. civil servants’ claims – Dr. Moser explains that his scheme is sparse. There are wide reports of what was considered to be common in Sparta, and I quote from a common description of daily life in Sparta: “The boys were also forced to steal their food.” – Something I would never put under Dr. Moser. But it's important: "He who was caught was beaten up. Not because he had stolen, but because he had been caught.” This is something that I always notice in your way of making policy here, ladies and gentlemen – or most of the ladies and gentlemen of the government groups – that you are not willing to find out whether someone is really suitable, whether the professional life is really so impeccable that it is qualified for such a sensitive office. But I still want to close with something not quite positive, but not completely hopeless: At the meeting of the main committee, I had the impression that, in particular, the Austrian People's Party colleagues are anything but enthusiastic about this proposal. I did not only have the impression of the EIA MP, who then refused to be a rapporteur in front of this House at all – and therefore a liberal MP had to report here – but also of the fact that the internal government's patience here is already quite overshadowed. [[Abg. Miedl: I don't think so, colleague.]] Once this is so far, and if you know that the debate on the President of the Court of Auditors must continue even after his appointment, because it will be necessary to protect the Court of Auditors from Dr. Moser on very specific questions – and we have never had this situation, that will be a task of the National Council for the first time – then I ask you: Think about it! If some of you were not even willing to argue here above, why you should choose Dr. Moser, then consider whether it would not be better for this House, better for the Court of Auditors and better for the rule of law in Austria if you used a secret choice to enable a new process of ordering the President of the Court of Auditors. I'm trying to think about it again. The Court of Auditors and the National Council deserved better than these candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e7599	The next thing I should like to say is Mr Neudeck. Member of the European Parliament, also for you, 10 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e7617	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is clear how rare my colleague Mr Pilz is here in the House, because the rapporteur has long failed to report on a matter or only in cases where something is too correct. [[Abg. Eder: He's on the record!]] He's on the record. It was not at all the problem that he did not want to take on this responsibility. But like so much with my colleague Pilz, the content is not important... [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Eder and Mr Mag. Kogler.]] Because he believes that the rapporteur is nothing, which is so important that we do in... – That is not true! [[Further calls.]] He has spoken about this matter, so he is also in the Minutes. Ask him! Ask him yourself, and don't spread rumors! Mr Pilz as a leftover of a time of the Greens, in which it was still important to throw something out, but not to prove the truth, is already isolated in his group, and even had to be removed from a committee location with slight force, because he did not want to make room for the subsequent professionally qualified colleague Moser. - So far to Col. Pilz. Ladies and gentlemen! He comes to the local only an hour before his speeches and then is gone again. – So much for his interest in parliamentary work. Ladies and gentlemen! The opposition demanded a public hearing. . I would not have had a problem with the public presentation of the candidates, because they were all highly qualified, and they were certainly full of new ideas, which are very valuable to us Committee of the Court of Auditors, which we were in the main committee this time. However, the questions and, above all, those of my colleague Pilz had nothing to do with a hearing, these were interrogation methods. If I put a question in a hearing until I think I get an answer that I'm right, then I have to say, my colleague Pilz: This has nothing to do with a hearing, but these are methods that should no longer exist for many decades! For me, it was the best example of disinterest and preconceived opinion of the partyist of the Greens. Van der Bellen and the party chairman of the SPÖ Gusenbauer, who did not find it worth being present at the Hearing, but after two, three hours of hearing-duration, told us about the press service: The hearing is a farce, in the hearing there is no content! – You did this before that you sent it out? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] You've seen, you've never been inside! Yeah, but you were never in the hearing. Then why do you know the hearing was a farce?- Oh, my God! – They didn’t even know what was coming out! – As the bad guy thinks he is! Colleagues of herbs are even a phenomenon for me. It's amazing what he called everything unbearable today. I've also found something unbearable. I'll tell you in private. What power the club director has in the SPÖ must be unimaginable! [[Abg. Parnigoni: He is one of the best!]] – That’s bad enough if he’s one of the best, colleague Parnigoni! You can already do it three times today, that your name is called – but only in the calls. The FPÖ's club director seems to lead the government, he's guilty when ministers are exchanged, is guilty of the government's policy – for you have said: [[Abg. Far from it: No, no, you are to blame for your mismanagement!]] Club director Moser is to blame for all these things! [[New call for tender of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] Then you have to take care of the herbs. He says Moser is guilty of all these things. He can only do that if he also calculates such things to his club director in SPÖ. Ladies and gentlemen! Then you sit down and say, Moser is “packed”, Moser is not suitable! The same speaker, Mr Cap, says: Moser will leave a big hole in the ÖBB, he will leave it there! – So he is the best man in the right place, because if he is good for the huge company ÖBB or for HL-AG, then he must also be right for the Court of Auditors. Mr Pilz is still saying: All these procedures and content that he puts on the table here are accusations. The procedures are closed. In all the investigations, the correctness of his allegations was not proved, everything was disproved. Even with his Sackerl he does not correspond to the spirit of time, because this year is 50 years of saving – 50 years of BILLA was last year! Ladies and gentlemen! What does the Opposition want? – The opposition seems to want a President of the Court of Auditors out of the retort, because he should have all the experience there is, he should be economically competent, he should have administrative experience, he should have financial experience, he should have political experience, only: [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig:...! We're against clones!]] He is not allowed to collect them anywhere – except perhaps, with some luck, in the dark circle of the SPÖ. There it is quite possible, because Mr Novotny was an impartial candidate, it was called in the hearing. I can only briefly introduce Dr. Josef Moser to the candidates so negatively described by the opposition speakers. He joined the Kärnten Finance Service in 1981, completed a training course for the higher financial service with several awards and was appointed Executive Director of the Staff and Presidential Department of the Finance Directorate in 1985. [[Abg. Eder: At the Haider!]] In 1986, he was unanimously elected chairman of the super-party financial academics of Carinthia. 1989 – and this should make him sympathetic with the Greens – he founded a citizens' initiative – far-reaching – with the title: “Stop the train noise!” He retired from the financial administration in 1991 and joined the Carinthia administration, where he was responsible for personnel, budget, civil engineering, energy and transport and for coordinating these areas with the Landtag. He received the offer to change to Vienna in 1992 and took over the role of the club director of the Freedom Party without being a party member, as mentioned by some previous speakers, and he was very successful in this function until the end of 2002. In 2003, Dr. Josef Moser became the Executive Board of HL-AG and was able to increase the operating performance of HL-AG from 330 million to 500 million in 2004 together with its employees and colleagues. He was able to complete projects in spite of massive interventions into nature through reconciliation with the interests of the citizens in large part. His activity led him to take over the commercial management of the financial and accounting system in ÖBB Holding AG and to be responsible for the strategic management of the operating companies of ÖBB-Infrastructure Betriebs AG. Ladies and gentlemen! In my view, Dr Josef Moser presented in his presentation in the hearing as the only far-reaching ideas for modernisations and changes in the Court of Auditors. He has a strengthened... – colleague, I have been in the committee all the time – and not like you, Mr Puswald, mostly in front of the committee. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It called for greater cooperation between Parliament and the Court of Auditors, by force individual reports on the annual reports, in order to ensure a more uniform parliamentary treatment. It has developed concepts across several pages, which the Court of Auditors should mean for it in the future. On his terms: Ladies and gentlemen! Dr. Josef Moser deserves much less than his predecessor, who – without having to guess for a long time – was a member of the SPÖ. He's not a supply case. He goes to the Court of Auditors, although he is there... – At the ÖBB. [[Abg. Broukal: Where? At HL-AG?]] In relation to HL-AG, his predecessor was of course a SPÖ party. Further: He is, as many as are officials, exempt from service. [[Abg. Broukal: And he earned much more? Are you sure?]] – Well, you know that, you know it on the train, colleague Broukal. [[Abg. Broukal: Who's at HL-AG? Only so that we can actually correct it!]] – Mr Brenner was at HL-AG. Good? – So you will look at it immediately and become pale when you see its salary. Mr Moser is an official who has been released from service and his duties are replaced by the HL-AG or the Federation. So it's not a double cover as you represent it. If you still see how independent media qualify Dr. Moser, you can only say: What the opposition has done or what it wants to do is to prevent a good candidate, for Josef Moser is also presented by the media as the respectable President of the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. Eder: They weren't in the hearing, the media, that's why they can't say anything! You didn't let them in!]] A blind party stallion, as the opposition underlies him to be one, he was never. He also had to reject an initial advance of distrust because of his origin from a party's parliamentary club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e7797	Next, I give the floor to Mr Prehauser. His speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e7816	Madam President. High house! Mr Neudeck said Mr Moser left a huge hole at the ÖBB. We are not in a position to understand this, because the duration of its working time simply does not allow it to be assessed from our point of view. The only thing we can say is: In the budget of the ÖBB, of course, he leaves a big hole: 100 000 € Redeployment for innocent excretion is not weak, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. School.]] In order to clarify ‘indebted excretion’: There must also be someone guilty of excruciating, and these are you, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition! I would therefore suggest that the railway recover the sum of €100 000 from your clubs. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But I can tell you one thing: in 1964 the Court of Auditors went in the right direction. The Coalition then commissioned an opposition politician to lead the Court of Auditors. It was then Jörg Kandusch, who served as his president from 1964 to 1980. In 1980, at the level of the Social Democratic Alone Government, a politician of the opposition, namely Tassilo Broesigke, was also appointed President of the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The little opposition party!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Always from the small opposition party!]] What I want to say is this: A concept of democracy, as we Socialists believe it to be right, means that those who should control the strongest, the powerful, also in Parliament have the opportunity to be President of the Court of Auditors. We also wanted to have a party-free successor for Broesigke in 1992. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Why “also ”? The Novotny wasn't party-free!]] This has not been possible because the sample for the small coalition was already made. So at the time, our coalition partner succeeded in winning the opposition for one of their candidates. He has spoken against a partyless candidate and has voted in favour of this. The fact that President Fierce was not quite what you had in mind then is another point. Under Broesigke something is broken down, namely the information to the public, to the media. Of course, some of the blue couleur's politicians have caused a lot of unrest, and Fiedler has managed to stop this in his environment. That is why we express our express thanks to him, too, specifically in this context. But I can tell you another thing, ladies and gentlemen: Today, we have often discussed the question: Hearing excluding the public: yes or no? They pretend to protect the candidates. In reality, you have protected yourself, because your statements that one has been by far the best have not necessarily corresponded to the objective feeling of those who have been there. If the public had been there, perhaps you would have voted by TED, you would have experienced your miracles as to how this vote would have taken place! Mr. Dr. Moser – that was certainly not a question – did not make a bad figure: He was quick to talk, he was slightly nervous – it is admittedly understandable. But with regard to professional competence, he could not in any way reach Mayer and Novotny the water! But we note: The majority decides that the majority is hiding behind any statements. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] Mr Fassleven, I am one of those who really appreciate you very much, but what you have given of yourself today has been studied from my point of view like an actor who reports anything that he has not been with. You spoke like after a script you were presented. - I think you know what I mean. Ladies and gentlemen! I also think we should draw our conclusions for ourselves in the future. Let's not turn the public off! Let's not be ashamed to say: If a person is recruiting for such an office, he will have nothing against the fact that a general public can make a picture of his ability! - 1992 was not a hearing. [[Abg. Scheibner: Was 1992 a hearing?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Why not?]] It wasn't because you had another way to get through with the ÖVP. [[Abg. Scheibner: What? Before? Before the vote?]] Mr Scheibner. There has been just as much agreement as it is now. [[Abg. Scheibner: Go!]] The stir up after ten or twelve years is actually lost love. [[Abg. Scheibner: I just wanted to know if there was a public hearing!]] The fact is: This time your goal was recognizable in every facet of hearing. It was also well known by the fact that your hearing participants have largely turned out to be always different. None of your group has heard all candidates! They always made sure the replacement came back in time. We Socialists have been there from the beginning to the end and have been an interlocutor for each candidate. [[Abg. Scheibner: What you're watching!]] I was inside all day, Mr Scheibner, so I know. [[Abg. Scheibner: But you should have taken care of the candidates and not the FPÖ members!]] This alone is the guarantee of being able to draw an objective picture: Whoever is there can talk about it! You weren't there most of the time. We will not, of course, support these candidates now!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e8005	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. May. Controller. The honourable Member, your speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e8023	Madam President. High house! I've been at the hearing all the time, I haven't missed a minute, and I can tell you: [[Complementary by representatives of the ÖVP]] It was a real hearing! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There was no "virtual hearing", no "cyber-hearing", no "farce", no "play", which has already been said. I can also assure you: For us, the result of the hearing was very relevant! [[The ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. May. Worm.]] I am also of the opinion, which has already been expressed by many, that it was an excellent hearing because all the candidates have corresponded very well. [[Call the SPÖ: “Super” was that!]] I could personally say to myself that I would not have any of the candidates concerned to entrust him with the office of President of the Court of Auditors. But we have to select a president – we cannot vote for seven presidents, and that is why the question is: [[Abg. Ollinger: That was the coin, was it?]] Who has the widest spectrum, the widest range that will enable him to serve this office? [[Abg. Dr. One: Now you stop!]] I have to say: For example, I liked the presentation of Anna-Maria Hochhauser from the Austrian Chamber of Commerce. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Call the SPÖ:No na!]] I have to say: It is precisely this presentation that has done a very good job for women, and I am looking forward to the time when both the President of the Federal Republic of Germany and the President of the Court of Auditors will be filled with women. [[Abg. Oils: Why didn't you choose them?]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The professors who were invited and nominated have also shown their strengths, which we already know in part: Johannes Hengstschläger as a certain best theoretical expert in the Court of Auditors, Heinz Mayer as a particularly appreciated state lawyer and Ewald Novotny as a particularly well-known economic theorist. The two top officials Karl Lengheimer and Winfried Wolf have also shown their strengths, but of course also have a certain deficit in the management of businesses, where experience has been lacking accordingly. All this together – the amount, the whole range of qualifications, which, as has already been carried out several times, is available at Josef Moser – has then moved us to accept the proposal of the Freedom Party. [[Abg. Oils: That must not be true!]] [[Abg. Oils:... 14 days!]] It has already been said that for decades the office of the President of the Court of Auditors was nominated by the FPÖ. I'm thinking about cane sugar and broesigke, which have already been mentioned. These were then proposed by the smallest group in Parliament, and the large groups wanted to stress the independence of the Court of Auditors. Even now the proposal is neither presented by the ÖVP nor by the SPÖ, so it also seems to ensure independence, especially since no one can say how long or at what time the government is in. [[Abg. Ollinger: That must not be true!]] [[Abg. Oellinger: You should act as a bulwark speaker! – That’s incredible!]] High house! In this sense, I would like to quote an unwarranted witness for the candidate proposed for the function of the future President of the Court of Auditors, who is now under discussion here, i.e. Josef Moser. I have read in the press the statements of the head of the railway trade union Wilhelm Haberzettl, who is certainly not close to the party that Joseph Moser nominated. It says inside, “Moses brought a line into the otherwise lethargic ÖBB board” – that is Wilhelm Haberzettl’s opinion – and: “The excretion” Mosers “means a huge damage to the ÖBB.” High House! I am sure that this huge damage to the ÖBB is particularly beneficial to the Court of Auditors, Parliament and the Republic of Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e8199	Next, Mr Scheibner. Mr. Klubobmann, you have 5 minutes of speech. It is no longer relevant to television broadcasting, but the negotiation break for the call for the request meeting. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e8217	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! A lot has now been talked about the hearing and also about the candidates who have been proposed here today, namely Dr. Moser. Ladies and gentlemen! If you talk to representatives of the opposition in private, it always sounds very different than here from the speaker's desk, because of course you say that Dr. Moser was and will continue to be an excellent expert, and we believe that with Dr. Moser, an excellent expert will lead the Court of Auditors in the future. We are convinced of that too! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We would never qualify candidates as you did, and not the hearing! [[Objection to the SPÖ]] It was a good hearing. All the candidates have qualified and presented themselves there in a positive way. However, we believe that on the basis of curriculum, administrative experience, private sector experience, experience also in the parliamentary operation Dr. Moser has brought the best conditions for the Court of Auditors. That is why he is nominated here today as a candidate, and we assume it and hope that he will be elected to this important office with the widest possible consent. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, you do not mind being against it, but if you are still taking yourself seriously, you should at least put the right arguments here in the meeting and build an opposition accordingly. If you, ladies and gentlemen, say that the opposition has to put the President of the Court of Auditors, then your pessimism will be yours, but you know that the President of the Court of Auditors has been appointed for twelve years, and I ask you: Do you really assume that you will be in the opposition for 12 years – because only then would this wish be justified? I wish you all the best! Nevertheless, I believe that it does not matter who nominates the President of the Court of Auditors, it should be the best! He should be well qualified, decisive, independent, dynamic – and that is given with Dr. Moser, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] They say the hearing should have been public. You know that the Rules of Procedure do not provide for this at all. You know, Mr. von der SPÖ – you did not want to admit that –: In 1992, when you had the majority, there was no public hearing either. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: But there you were for a public!]] Mrs Glavischnig, the inconsistency has also been mentioned here: Dr. Moser should not examine all possible things now because he has been responsible for coordination. – You know what that means when a club director is involved in government coordination: He has no decision-making skills! – If you understood this, your candidate Novotny, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, would also have had a problem conducting a corresponding examination at the universities. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Because he agreed to the laws!]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Fekter]] So stay. You're really here at the truth and at a consistent argument! But I must admit to you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ that you have complied with a certain framework within which both the person and the office were not damaged. That is what I am saying here in all clarity! It was quite different with the Greens, or I would once limit it to the Pilz Member: Member of the Pilz, who was not present all day during the debate, goes down here, gives up his speech here, diffamates people, suspects them in the kind of a big inquisitor – and is not here now. That is the understanding of a Member who is not at all about the matter, but only about criminalizing, discrediting, driving! This is the method of Mr Pilz – and we reject it, ladies and gentlemen! But I assume that you are not very happy about such a policy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It has also been clearly expressed in the hearing: There were allegations and suspicions. Dr. Moser, who, by the way, as the only one, has also put forward very concrete proposals for the Court of Auditors for the future, has clearly and clearly stated that there were these suspicions and that there were surveys, but they did not lead to anything, and everything has been put back. – That was the answer of Dr. Moser, who was not presented here, ladies and gentlemen! If you ask the same question five times, you will get the same answer five times. In a rule of law, thank God – and hopefully it remains so in Austria for a long time, even if Mr Pilz may wish otherwise! – not only the suspicion of innocence, but there is a need to bring evidence if one expresses any suspicions. Only here from this speaker's desk can you, as Mr Pilz has done, say what you want. But all of us as Members of Parliament can, and also the public, take a picture of the seriousness of such statements! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We are deeply convinced that the Court of Auditors will take a good course in the next twelve years with Dr. Moser. And I hope so...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e8311	Ladies and gentlemen, please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e8326	I'll bring the final sentence. However, since the television time has expired, Madam President, it would be...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e8345	You can continue to speak after the request has been made. But now I'm going to interrupt.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e8360	I am convinced that in 12 years you will suffer the same fate as your group at the time with Dr. Fiedler: Before, yell and praise!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e8387	I am now interrupting the negotiations on the 3rd. Agenda item. Short debate on the reply to the question 1560/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e8406	We come to the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Finance with the order number 1560/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker or speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with the first speaker speaking for reasons of 10 minutes. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General and Secretary-General on the floor shall not last more than 10 minutes. I now ask Mrs Dr. Moser as an applicant to open the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, your speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e8439	Madam President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! Already this morning, Mr. Finanzminister, you visited the government bank briefly. This afternoon is also the occasion for your being here to let your services happen again against the background of the revision that a new government education took place this morning. Several observers of the domestic policy scene have very probably also repeatedly called a truly aloof minister. He was an absolute minister, Mr. Finanzminister! I don't need to add up, you know it yourself. There is still a lot to be done on the homepage, especially what the Court of Auditors has already drawn up in the raw report. This is why, given the appointment of Dr. Moser, it is particularly interesting, which will now be included in the final report, since the raw report is very specific about this financial audit within the section of Mr. Finanzminister regarding his homepage history. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: You have disqualified yourself through your calls! You don't need to listen anymore!]] Mr. Finanzminister, your redundancies have already been marked by the fact that you took the turn from the zero deficit to the tax reform and presented a tax reform that will become a million and billion-dollar gift for large corporations. It has already been shown that you are not actually keeping course, but changing the course flexibly depending on how the mainstream and so on make it seem advisable to you! The third part, which has often occupied us in Parliament, was, of course, the question of the Eurofighters, the fighters. In this respect too, it has been documented repeatedly that the purchase of this most expensive aircraft, which is even rejected by the German army for technical reasons, has then passed through the stage by your quick decision before a certain Council of Ministers. [[Abg. Neudeck: It's about the federal apartments and not about the airplanes!]] The last act, I would like to say, before we come to the real issue, Mr. Finanzminister, was your appearance within the EU's finance ministry, where you managed to step from one fat nap to the other. After all, the latter was so huge that you will no longer invite your colleague from Germany to a joint meeting! You have discredited our financial policy, represented by your person, by your statement on international EU level, by virtually damning German budget policies in soil and soil, something that seems to be not heard among finance ministers! Now we come to the actual fact: They thought of themselves as a large Zampano in real estate, and about 14 days or three weeks ago they presented the sale of 62,000 federal apartments and – and that is very important! – of 5.1 million square meters of unbuilt reason for saying and writing 850 million € as a great success. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] Mr Finanzminister! You just need to count! [[Abg. Grossruck: The numbers are wrong!]] I have taken the net figures, Mr Grossruck! I took off the outstanding loans. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Grandruck.]] Yes, of course! I'd love to tell you! But that is not what the Minister can take! [[Abg. Amon: You have no idea!]] These are outstanding loans, which one cannot take, but I have to deduct them more or less from the purchase price! That is why he gets no more than 850 million under the line and, as I believe, 55 million for the “Vienna Railways”. This is practically the net sum! What's at stake? What is the package that is sold around this € 850 million plus € 55 million? – It's about 62,000 apartments, it's the biggest real estate deal in this republic! That's 5.1 million square meters of land most likely to be built-up, these are commercial businesses, these are 23,000 parking spaces! Come on, come on. Come on, come on. If you start from € 850 million, then the price of € 40 000 per apartment will be about € 40 000. If you're going to get the real estate price... [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Plus the debts!]] I've already counted the debts away! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But this is the value that must be counted!]] Mrs Fekter! This may really be a good example for you: We have 5.1 million square meters. When it comes to construction land – and to buying housing companies with preference for construction land – it may be possible to expect an average of €100 per square meter of urban land per square meter of construction land – and the BUWOG and the WAG have mainly acquired urban properties and accordingly also construction land. And there I am already the cheapest of all Jacobs who exist, isn't I? Now you count 100 times 5.1 million: That's where you come to say and write 500 million €. The Minister of Finance, however, totals 850 plus 55 million! I mean, that's the problem! – Mrs Fekter! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: This also includes the gardens and farms!]] If you already have such a great need for speech, perhaps you should speak for yourself! – It’s very easy: To sum up, the price achieved for what is available to the Republic's total real estate values, I think, is half a summer closing sale! But let us take a brief look at the answer to the question that Mr Finanzminister gave me and which is the occasion for this question. – Minister! I also asked you what it will be like in the future – for me housing policy as such – to look at the housing law as a non-profit, because both now and in the future, the apartments sold are in the regime of the WGG, the housing law of non-profit. You, Mr. Minister, have said again and again: There's nothing threatening the tenants right now. – That’s right, no question! But they also said – and I put my question mark there –: Future tenants are virtually no change. We all know, however, that if you or your successor, in cooperation with the responsible Ministry of Construction, decide on a WGG amendment politically, then it is very likely that the new rentals and the rents will be made. Then it'll all happen! Then, not only in the sold housing companies of the federal government, but in all non-profit housing associations in the case of new rentals, may a higher rent be required according to your change of law. That is why I see this as a damocles sword for reasons of housing policy. My question was: Is the WGG secured in the existing form in the future, or do you intend to make changes? – You answered me: “I want to understand that I cannot make any statements for the future legislative activities of these and subsequent governments.” They do not even guarantee this government! That you do not do this for the future, however, I am going to take this away, Mr Minister, because you will probably no longer be Finance Ministers in future governments. You, Minister, answered me further: “I can assure you, however, that I have already done so in a wide range of responses that nothing will change for the current tenants through the sale.” These are not our fears! I agree completely with you! But you will leave it completely open, as it will be in the future in this legislative period; detto Mr Bartenstein, who is also responsible. And Mr Böhmdorfer, Minister of Justice, said the same thing at a Question Time in front of the running camera in this plenary room: It is by no means excluded that housing rights will be changed, so that higher rents can be paid for future generations of tenants. This is not only true, as I have said, for the Germans, or for those – I correct myself – former state-owned housing companies, but also for all non-profit. In view of this, I wonder whether your sales deal, which I think was not the big throw, was at most a zero-sum game – about the details we can then lead the discussion through Mr Kogler – does not open up a little bit of housing policy in Austria, so to speak, stimulates a commercial area and makes room for something that will lead to a massive increase in the housing market in general. In my view, this is the great problem and the background to the fact that I have already asked you more than 26 questions about this matter and that we are already discussing it in this Parliament at least three times in the form of questionings, because I think this harvest, which you want to enter into in short-term financial policy, is a housing mortgage! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] All this only happens so you can get credited under the line € 850 million. You've always talked about debt reduction. Now you read in the APA that you want to finance research and otherwise a little short. But your weather is here: Once you say so, then that's it! I'm right if you cut off the debt, but I'd rather if you didn't sell the apartments. Of course, it is very right for me to invest the money, but not to sell it would be a bad option for me. You can calculate after: In the period between 2001 and 2003, you yourself have spoken to dividends and written 187 million € from the companies – in three years 187 million! – and you are now selling these companies by 850 million. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] .. Calculate this yourself: In five years you actually made a deficit business with all the sales! But that's your policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e8594	I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of the speakers who are now following is 5 minutes, according to the Rules of Procedure. Mr Grossruck is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Speaking time: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e8616	Madam President. Estimated Minister of Finance! High house! What you brought, Mrs. Moser, is unworthy of you! I might expect that from Mr Cap or perhaps even from Mrs Bures, but not from you! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] I wouldn't have expected you to argue in such an inaccurate way, put mortgages in the room here, and assure the people! I will address your arguments. Please listen to me! I hope you will turn from Saul to Paul, or from Saula to Paula, when you hear my arguments. [[Abg. Eder: Such an exaggeration!]] What you have offered here is old wine in old bottles that you don't even drink yourself! The Austrians, however, believe in this drink! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Eder: This is unsympathetic to the no longer going!]] Mrs Moser, the question you have raised is from March. It was answered – for the x-th time in May – and now you know that in mid-June the federal apartments were sold quite successfully. What you and the opposition are doing is hypocrisy and a disinformation policy of the opposition for the citizens! Let me make some points. – For the time being, however, I would like to congratulate the Minister of Finance on the success of selling this part of the federal apartment at a top price, that he has succeeded in being the owners of Austria and staying here, despite all the unacquainted calls we have already heard here from this place! Mrs Moser! Point one that you brought was that these shares were sold below the value or were thrown as you called it. - That's wrong! I repeat: Your argumentation and your figures are simply wrong, because overall, with the sale of the federal apartments, a proceeds of €2,639 billion was achieved. You must be fair, Mrs Moser! Suppose you're buying a house that has 4 million Schilling traffic value – I'm expressing it in Schilling now – and there are 2 million debts on it. Then you won't pay 4 million schilling for it and take over the debts as well, making it a total of 6 million, but you'll buy the house very well by 2 million if you get it, plus debt. And that is exactly how you have to expect that! I call you the numbers: The BUWOG, the WAG, the ESG-Villach and the EBS Linz were sold by €961 million, the WBG by €55 million. The dividends from 2001 to 2003 amounted to €187 million. You know why? . Because we have decided here in Parliament that the community benefit for the companies – not for the apartments, you know exactly – is lifted so that a corresponding sales revenue can be achieved on the market for the apartments and for the housing companies. That was the reason! At that time, when the tender was running, the offers came in and the Lehman Brothers were ordered to examine here, dividends were paid. This is true because the common good has just been removed in order to force sales. The acquisition of debts, Mrs Moser, amounted to 1.436 billion, totaling 2.6 billion euros, including debt. Net proceeds amounted to €961 million. – That’s the fact you negate! Then we have heard from all sides of the opposition: Danger! There is a danger that the housing companies will be sold abroad! – That’s just as wrong! An Austrian consortium with the Raiffeisen Landesbank, the Wiener Städtisch, the Oberösterreichische Landesbank, the Oberösterreichische Insurance and the Immofinanz has received the award. The aim was to ensure that the apartments or the companies remain in Austria and that there is a guarantee that such a continuation will also take place for the tenants. You know exactly, Mrs Moser, that a rental price increase is not possible, because it says: Once non-profit, always non-profit! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bures.]] The apartments that are sold here are subject to the housing law of non-profit and nothing else, and if you here accuse the Minister of Finance of wanting to change something, then undermine Parliament, because the one who can decide to change the housing law is not the Minister of Finance, but those are the Members here in Parliament. And we do not intend to decide on a change – I say that to prevent further regulations. I come to the end, ladies and gentlemen. I bring a four-and-a-half liner, because I thought of the debate about the President of the Court of Auditors: Whether it was Böhmdorfer, whether it was Fierce, it left no good hair. Veradern was red-green goal, at Moser runs the same game. Even him, I bet on it today, roses are once scattered!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e8690	The next speaker is Mrs Bures. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e8708	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Grossruck, I am really glad that once in a while you have a four-liner, because that was the only enriching of your statements here today. [[Abg. Neudeck: It was a six-liner!]] I think today's meeting, initiated by Mr Moser, is very important. Today, we are not only talking about the largest real estate transfer in the Second Republic, but, in total, about the largest asset shift in the Second Republic, and thousands of people are affected. In these apartments, 62 000 families do not know today, because of the policy of ÖVP and FPÖ in combination with this Minister of Finance, what it will look like tomorrow with their home, but above all with rent. [[Abg. Hornek: Tell me why!]] We have 62 000 apartments, which are 4.5 million square meters of living space, we have 5 million square meters of unbuilt area, which are completely unprepared and ruined here. [[Abg. Hornek: Where is the difference to the municipality of Vienna?]] The only thing we've fixed is a number of costs: for consulting companies, almost €11 million – that's 150 million schilling that's flown at consulting costs! [[Abg. Hornek: That is wrong!]] With this money we could have built 50 single-family houses for multi-child families, with this money you have hunted for completely unnecessary advice through smoking, as the Court of Auditors also sees, because the ministry would have had sufficient experts. [[Abg. Hornek: That is wrong!]] These costs could have been saved. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Hornek.]] That's how you deal with the tax money! Mr Finanzminister, you are wasting tax money on consulting that is completely unnecessary! Except for fees, that's the balance of your deal! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Kogler.]] [[Abg. Hornek: This speech is from the previous year!]] If you have costs, there are also, you might think, proceeds. But let's take a closer look at the proceeds. Mr Finanzminister! In 2001, you said: 3 billion € we will achieve through this real estate deal. A year ago, you reduced the sum and said: 2 billion € are still a lot, we will get 2 billion out of this deal! – Today we know: It's almost 1 billion euros. The invoice of Mr Großruck is a farmer's bill which is not true, there are long-term loans which cannot be calculated! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: What is a “farmer calculation ”?]] Just under € 1 billion is the proceeds today. [[Abg. May. Molterer: What is a “farmer calculation ”?]] [[Abg. Hornek: Mrs Bures, farmers can count well!]] Mr Finanzminister, you have not only been here once, but you have often said: We make the apartment tenants home owners! [[Abg. May. Molterer: What is a “farmer’s bill”, Mrs Bures?]] – 98 percent of the apartment tenants could not buy the apartment. It was just 2% of the tenants who had the chance to buy the apartment. [[Abg. May. Molterer: I want to know what a “farmer calculation” is! What is a “farmer’s bill ”?]] Do you know why the tenants couldn't buy the apartments? – Mr. Finanzminister and you, Mr. Molterer, charged tenants with €1 470 per square meter of living space. And do you know what you're demanding of real estate investors today? - 300 €! [[Abg. May. Molterer: Mrs Bures, what is a “farmer’s bill”?]] Real estate investors get the apartments by 300 €, but the tenant had to pay 1 400 €! [[Call the SPÖ: Unheard!]] This is sand-in-the-eye scatters! You have never been interested in making tenants a homeowner! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Mrs Bures, what is a “farmer’s bill”? - She has no idea! She does not know what a “farmer’s bill ” is!]] It's the wrong bill. Mr. Großruck cannot even add, that's the problem, because he offers apartment tenants the apartment at €1 400 per square meter, while investors have only €300 to pay, although you have promised the tenants that they can acquire property. They couldn't acquire anything! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] In fact, you've thrown the apartments into the hands of the investors, that's the problem. Because you have said that there will be no change in the rents, once housing public utility is always residential public utility: The question is, who adopts the Community law and how the rents make themselves in this context! ÖVP and FPÖ have always increased this in night and fog actions, the rents in Austria have increased, incomes have fallen, pensions have shortened you – and people can no longer afford to live in the future. [[Interlocutory calls at the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] That's the record of your wrong policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Why, Minister of Finance, Mr Grossruck, is there a supplementary obligation? If investors have even higher revenues at €300 per square meter, then the Minister of Finance benefits, not only investors. In reality, for all people who live in cooperative apartments – that is, 2.2 million people – you intend to increase rents. [[Abg. Neudeck: You didn't understand!]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Say that, too, and do not prevent — I come to the conclusion, Madam President — auditing the Court of Auditors. I hope that, if Joseph Moser is decided, he will actually control this deal, that would be essential.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e8977	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Grasser. Mr Minister, you know the speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e8996	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I am grateful for the fact that, after a very successful sale of our housing portfolio, we can make a direct information about the House. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser.]] Mrs Moser has had a dialogue with us several times. [[Abg. Oils: A pretty one-sided one!]] I have been able to inform the Council of Ministers six times since 2000. There have been a total of 26 parliamentary questions, we have had ten debates in Parliament. We have dealt with privatisation five times in the Parliamentary Committee of the Court of Auditors, and there has also been Court of Auditors' control over the award of the selection of advisers. I can tell you, Mrs Bures, that I am looking forward to a Court of Auditors report on the overall outcome of this privatisation, because in Austria there is rarely such a professional procedure and such a good result, both for taxpayers and for tenants, as has been the case with this privatisation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen, once again: Why did we privatize? – We have privatized in the firm conviction that the state is not a good entrepreneur. Housing, housing, this is no longer the core business of a modern state; one does not have to be the owner, not the owner of apartments, but one has to ensure attractive and favourable rents, especially where small incomes are concerned. That is our objective, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] What is privatized? – Again: You know it's about five federal housing companies, the BUWOG, the WAG, the ESG, the EBS and the WBG – in total, a housing portfolio of 62,000 individual apartments. How did we do it? – We have chosen a professional, a very transparent procedure. There have been public and international calls for tender, in the Financial Times, in the “Presse”, in the “Wiener Zeitung”. In this privatisation process, we have fully complied with the European Union's state aid rules, thus completing the procedure completely transparent and objectively. Of course, there has also been a professional settlement with the help of internationally renowned consultants. Mrs Bures referred to the following costs: I recognize that consultants also cost something. If you see the optimised result we have achieved here, then you have to say that, as in any other procedure, it is first of all internationally usual to use such an advisor, and second, the result always warrants these advisory costs. I can give you a small indication of the privatisation of the railway housing companies that took place in Germany. The German Federal Government, as you know, is made up of Red/Green, has, as you say, operated a loss of property there; I say that it is useful to privatize apartments. [[Abg. Bures: You're wrong with the years!]] There, ladies and gentlemen, 100 000 apartments are charged with consulting costs of € 38 million. 38 million € Counsellor costs in Germany! [[New call of the abg. Bures.]] You know that it was an absolute fraction of the cost that happened here. Main points, ladies and gentlemen: What was our goal? – The aim was to safeguard the interests of the tenants. First of all, we said – and that was the first step in this process: As the first federal government in Austria, we offer these apartments to the tenants for sale! And I am glad that more than 1,000 tenants have actually decided to buy these apartments for sale. We were the first to give this opportunity – more than 1,000 have benefited. [[Abg. Neighbors: 2 percent!]] The others have not used them because they rightly rely that there will continue to be average prices, ladies and gentlemen, of about €2.40 per square meter in rents. [[Abg. Neighbors: Do you guarantee 2,40 €?]] If You compare this with the private housing market, then you know that there you pay up to €7, in many cases even more than €7 per square meter. [[Abg. Neighbors: Do you guarantee 2,40 €?]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I claim that we have achieved €2,40 for the tenants with this flat-use law – very attractive, cheap rent – and I assume – that is my goal – that it also remains there. We have argued – and this was asked by Mrs Moser – that: “Once WGG, always WGG!” – That was our goal. In other words, this sale of the apartments will have no effect on the existing rental conditions. The new owner cannot intervene in any way in the existing rental conditions. And with this we have reached the optimal for the tenant, namely on the one hand an Austrian solution as regards the new property, and on the other hand cheap, attractive rents in the future. It's not better for the tenant, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Mrs Bures, it already belongs to a proper degree of political courage – in order to express it diplomatically – if you prove yourself here and say that we were squandering the taxpayer's wealth! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This is not courage, but ignorance!]] Mrs Bures, I have already been able to confront you here in the House – you know very well anyway – that there was the attempt of social democracy in 1997 with the initiative No. 413/A by Mr Eder and Mr Comrades, where, in 1997, the Federal Government's share of three railway companies, namely those in Villach, Vienna and Linz, was to be sold to the Vienna Joint Committee on General Construction, Housing and Township, to a cooperative which is in the sphere of social democracy or the trade union. At that time it was a sale of more than 20,000 apartments you wanted to make for € 13.1 million! 20 000 apartments for 13.1 million €! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Today you stand out here, Mrs Bures, and so speak – after you wanted to make such a business by the SPÖ in favour of social democracy and the union, but at the expense of the taxpayer! Tax payer's assets wanted you to give almost to the SPÖ or trade union sphere – and this obviously at a very, very low price –! [[Abg. Bures: We're about the tenants!]] I'll tell you: The comparison makes us sure, honourable Member. We would never have thought of anything like that, because we sell the taxpayer's assets optimally and as best as possible! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Bures: You're selling the tenants! The only thing you sell is the tenants!]] Mrs Bures, in order to continue your calls and to be able to come before your door, I would like to say something to you: They turned out here very, very often, and claimed that we would sell companies that we were not allowed to sell, such as the WBG. [[New call of the abg. Bures.]] – We did not sell the WBG because of these legal problems for the time being, because the BWS, a non-profit cooperative of the railways with loud social democratic leaders, objected. They have sued us before the Civil Court, before the Commercial Court, before the Supreme Court and the Administrative Court, and they have made us all the problems in the sale of this society, which are only possible in some way. Ladies and gentlemen! What do you think this thing went on? – Due to all these problems, we have decided to release the WBG from this bundle of five societies and have said: We're selling one separately! We sold them to BWS, at a fair market price, I must emphasize. We sold them to the society of social-democratic railers, for €55 million plus debt takeover. And what do you think happened? – All legal objections that existed were withdrawn immediately! [[Call to the ÖVP and the Freeman: Oho!]] [[Abg. Big Truck: This is the true scandal!]] The city of Vienna, MA 50, the supervisory authority of the city of Vienna, has explained at once: Quite rightly, the Austrian Federal Government has done so! [[Abg. Bures: Tell me why!]] That is, Mrs Bures: On the one hand, you have tried to move the taxpayer's assets at unacceptablely low prices to the sphere of social democracy or the trade union in 1997 and on the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, if social democracy buys – it was also BAWAG's home building holding company as a buyer – when your sphere of influence buys everything in order! Then you obviously don't bother at all, then don't stand out here and say: You shouldn't have sold there! So it's best to sell to social democracy, then you've done it right in your opinion! – This is double-godness that we reject! We privatize with full conviction: in the interests of tenants and taxpayers – and achieve the best possible results, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] And how do these best results come about? We have said with Alfred Finz that we want to set up an independent expert committee so that we can achieve an objective, transparent and comprehensible result very, very good. Ladies and gentlemen! I may mention to you the members of this committee of experts: Their chairman was Dipl.-Ing. Rainer Wieltsch from ÖIAG; Dr. Peter Michaelis was involved in this expert commission; also Dr. Gerhard Steger, head of section; Dr. Rudolf Lessiak, an award law expert. In addition, the Commission: Mr. Universitätsprofessor Dr. Josef Aicher, expert in commercial and contract law, also Dr. Mantler from the BMF, Mr. Ministerial Council Traumüller and Mr. Section Head Svoboda from the BMF. This Commission was set up at the beginning of this year, has accompanied this process – and has then made a unanimous proposal for the final decision by Alfred Finz and me. With regard to this unanimous proposal, one of the two Members here spoke of'summer sale'. – Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to have such a “summer closing” sale: one for 62,000 apartments with a total proceeds of €2,639 billion! And I wish that such a “summer closing sale” would last longer! No one has trusted us with this, look at media comments! Everyone was surprised that we were able to reach €2,639 billion in total for taxpayers after a four-year, very professionally advanced process for this housing portfolio! This total income, ladies and gentlemen, is divided into: €961 million for the shares of the BUWOG, the WAG, the EBS; the selling price of the WBG, which went to BAWAG housing on the one hand and to the BWS railway company, just €55 million, as I have already said; a acquisition of €1.436 billion and dividends from 2001 to 2003 from €187 million. Mrs Moser, I am here now, and if you would like to have fairness exercised in your assessment: They have stood out here in several brief debates and have said to me: We will see if you can achieve what the Court of Auditors has stated, namely, €500 million in sales revenue! That was the minimum limit set by the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: 600 million for two!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] Why has the Court of Auditors so decided? And I'm coming back now. Your argument: You said that in five years we deserved this now because we took out 187 million euros in dividends. Ladies and gentlemen! The operating success of these companies last year, in 2003, was €21.5 million. The account of the Court of Auditors was the following: If we reach € 25 million a year and expect the whole thing on the other hand with a 5% interest rate that we have today in order to be able to serve the financial debt of the Republic, we must reach at least € 500 million in order to make a good business for the taxpayer. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: For two, not for four!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have not reached €500 million, but we have reached €1 016 million in liquids, more than doubles – and we have made a very, very good business for the taxpayer, which we can rightly be proud of! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Coming to the end: Ladies and gentlemen, I am very happy and happy that we succeeded – this consortium was the best bidder – in reaching an Austrian solution. We were aware from the outset that the best bidder must, of course, come to terms with all the international award criteria. And that there is the happy addition that the best bidder is also an Austrian, namely the Raiffeisen Landesbank Oberösterreich, the Immofinanz Immobilien Anlagen AG, the Wiener Städtische Allgemeine Versicherung AG, the Oberösterreichische Landesbank AG and the Oberösterreichische Versicherungs-AG, is of great benefit in that we have also been able to provide regional solutions for the tenants. I therefore believe that we can live very, very well with this Austrian solution. Finally, if I can make another comparison: Where – regardless of whether a social-democratic, a green coalition or another one is at work – there are market-economy beliefs, where one knows that the state is not a good businessman, one privatizes. Therefore, for example, in Berlin, where there is a coalition of SPD and PDS, i.e. from Social Democrats and Communist Successor Party, one has decided to sell 66 490 apartments, that is to say, significantly more apartments than was the case in Austria. A purchase price of € 405 million plus acquisition of debt has been achieved. That means, ladies and gentlemen, we also need not be afraid of international comparisons – I could now call you cash flow returns since 1996 – because the purchase price we have achieved, with all the information that has been presented to me, is Europe's record, Europe's record for the Austrian taxpayer! Furthermore: a professional settlement, guarantees the right of the tenants, achieves the highest possible price, achieves the optimal for the taxpayer – and: an Austrian solution! This is how I wish for the success of privatization in the future. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e9306	The next speaker was Mr Neudeck. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e9324	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is almost an owner who has shot Mrs Moser with this meeting of a reply to a question. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: I'm sure!]] - I'm sure it's an own gate! Well, if women say something, I'll follow: That's an owner, Mrs. Fekter says. I've already wondered: There have always been discussions in advance about what one will get, how much it will be, how much it will be too little and what advisors that will get this. And suddenly we have a super price that is above all what was once traded seriously. We have a very transparent procurement procedure. – We may have a problem: This is the approach with the WBG, which I would like to briefly explain, although the Federal Minister has already done very well on it. – And we have in the Treaty a certificate of improvement which I think is particularly necessary. Mr Grossruck and I have said several times that in this legislative period, we do not intend to attack the housing law, but the time will come, because perhaps social democracy will again have a majority in Parliament and in government offices. And then it can happen with the interrelationships and filtations that the SPÖ – colleague Matznetter is not there, he could exactly brighten us up – in the housing sector, quite happen – the probability is very large – that housing community benefits change for the benefit of social democratic cooperatives. If something changes for the sake of the tenants and for the benefit of the owners of the social democratic-led cooperatives, then the state should also get something about this certificate of improvement – because, of course, in succession, the rents in these sold companies would also change. I stand for this passage; I find it very far-reaching that it is contained in this Treaty. But it is not contained because we are planning an increase. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: You want to change the WGG!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the BUWOG will also become a private enterprise from a SPÖ branch. I believe that this is the reason why the excitement is so great, because allocations, advertisements and other cost allocations to social democrats were quite commonplace there. Your colleague Bures, you have regretd today that no more tenants have acquired property. You are to blame for this with your uncertainty campaign, because from the sides of the federal housing companies it was planned to sell in a first rail shares in the properties to the tenants, but you have made it mad, you have made the procedure difficult, you have caused costs by complaints et cetera. Now to say that this government did not want to sell to the tenants, which is probably very much – I would say almost – hypocritical. Of course, a purchase price is calculated after the yield of an object, so it can be quite clear that an investor buys an object somewhat cheaper than the tenant inside who buys an object that lies in his mind, even as regards the question of whether it can be empty and therefore sold at a much higher price. There was also the social democracy that the tenant speculation wanted to open door and gate. Mr Bures, you have, of course, used this response again to stir up the advertising drum for the tenants' association that you are in charge of. However, they have forgotten to say that the largest housemaster of Europe is the municipality of Vienna, where the most pity is on the operating costs, which also increases the municipality of Vienna with its canal fees, insurance fees et cetera. It is not the rental laws and the rents in the free sector which rise so much, but the operating costs, which are not in the property of the owners.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e9386	The last speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Also for him are 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e9404	Madam President. Federal Minister! At least two previous speakers have here read the term ‘sacrifice’, the colleague from Upper Austria was allowed to present his four-liners again outside his speaking time and has here addressed the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's a question of order.]] - I'll tell you one thing: I really did hold back very much earlier, but if anything is hypocritical today, is still hypocritical, then the process of how a President of the Court of Auditors is to be found here. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This must not be said, Madam President.]] You should consider this from the ÖVP in particular and do not contact the opposition with this vocabulary! We know exactly who's doing personnel policy in your party. [[Abg. Großruck: We are in the history of housing!]] We know exactly who this is: the Federal Chancellor, the President of Parliament, sometimes Mr Klubobmann. With you, they are called the Three Kings. These are really the “hypocrites of three kings ” in this matter, I can tell you. And stop substituting such things to the opposition in this context and in similar contexts! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Großruck: Surely you are hypocrites!]] Now we come to what such a great sales success should be. I mean, what I really know, Mr. Federal Minister, is that you never make a hoax out of selling it for ideological reasons – quite convincing in your world. [[Abg. Großruck: The Communists in Berlin also sell!]] You have emphasized that again today. – So far, so bad; so far, so good. However, what is then an appropriate selling price – it is certainly more than €500 to €600 million, that is true – what the President of the Court of Auditors meant by €500 to €600 million is already another question. But I can come back to the media again, because you meant that it was all so praised. Under the title “Sale flop”, we find a comment in the press, which assumes that at €800 million the category “Flop” would still apply. - You're not that far away from it. But worse for all this action: It is true that there are not 10 commas of some millions of consultants, but, on the basis of the construction that has now finally come to the train, only € 8.5 million – but still 8.5 million – and thus far more than 100 million schilling – to consultants' fees, for a force which is not Austrian – as you have said, Mr Minister – and which, anyway, only serves subcontractors, can only return to certain bidders who are subject to the procedure – with a fraction of the cost of the alleged best bidder. What we are going to hear about these consultative contracts here in the house is still open. Don't praise the day before the evening in this Causa! Especially you should exercise the necessary and genuine self-restraint in the context of advisory agreements, otherwise we will have the next problem. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] At the mentioned purchase price. I'm not an expert, I can only say that it's not like here was sold "exhaust" – under quotation marks – 62,000 apartments. After all, 5.1 million square meters of land – mostly building grounds – are included, there are 23 000 garages; this will certainly have been included in any form. But whether €900 million in the net bill was the end of the flag rod is not yet out for me. I see little occasion for this jubilation. In the end, it is also against the background that there are clauses that would result in any changes and increases in value that could be caused by legal provisions being limited to ten years, whereas the resulting increase in value would, of course, be a much longer period of time and would therefore have to be charged with an interest rate bill up to the infinity. Whether this is all reflective, I dare doubt. You tried to make us particularly tasty for 20 minutes. You didn't convince me. Whether we or you have made a good deal here, this will prove a Court of Auditors report – I hope, with a President who has also grown up on this matter. I should like to refer once again to Mr Plach. As you have said, everything has already been clarified in the Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors: That's not the case at all! Mr Plech, set up in multifunctions by you, did not even know in the “small investigation committee” the role he should play in giving the answers. I've got the protocols here. – So much for your transparency and incompatibility.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e9506	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e9524	I take the negotiations on the 3rd. Agenda item again. The next item is Mrs Dr. Moser's speech. Your desired speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e9545	Madam President. Minister of Finance a. D.! [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser is about to leave the meeting room.]] You just say goodbye. Ladies and gentlemen! It is now time to look at the question of the President of the Court of Auditors in the light of the fact that it was not even an hour ago that the person whom you have been equipped with a majority did not meet the requirements. I just repeat: The Court of Auditors shall examine the financing of the parties. – Your candidate has had strange handling or special services in the case of party funding transfers – is in the minutes of the economic police. That's not what I'm saying. That's what the economic police protocol says. [[Abg. Neudeck: Did you copy this from the fungus or do you know that? Did you see that?]] In the main committee at the hearing, your candidate replied: I'm not a plastic sack. – In so far as this response did not qualify him for this essential position. The Court of Auditors as our supreme control body, as the pillar of parliamentaryly controlled democracy, is also examining pension schemes. Your candidate, your candidate to be elected by a majority, personally has something strange – how am I supposed to say? –, privilege-provoking pension scheme. You know, he's going to get an official's pension due to his position as a club director. It will also take advantage of a privately funded pension scheme, for which the HL-AG has already paid. He picks out, so to speak, the raisins from both systems, the official board and the good salary at HL-AG. Such a person becomes President of the Court of Auditors, although the Court of Auditors in its reports, although Mr President of the Court of Auditors even in a way that is untypically emotional for him, has always agreed to the stencil regulation relating to the ÖIAG sanctions, since this legal structure, which has been decided here in the House, has not been observed repeatedly. It is very much on tone legs whether your candidate's pension scheme is also subject to a review of the Court of Auditors in the future, for it is not lukewarm. There are refreshments where you don't see through. Anyway, under the rule: Someone is supposed to become president of an institution which in this particular area has always been very keen on the gold scale. It is our concern that, in future, this sharp criticism of the Court of Auditors, based on laws, will no longer take place in brilliance, in clarity, in the clear political control function. Next area. They elect a President of the Court of Auditors, who comes from Carinthia, who has a close relationship with the head of the Carinthian state, who is in a personal relationship with this “consul” of the FPÖ. And you choose a President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors, who will then have to examine projects of the ÖBB, to benefit the Carinthians alone. I'm just mentioning the coral tunnel. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What about Mr. Novotny? How would Mr. Novotny do that?]] How is this President-in-Office of the Council to act serially and independently in a causa in which there is a close relationship because of his personal relationships? Why did you insist that Mr. Moser become President of the Court of Auditors? – You could have put independent people to the discussion. There were even signals from you in advance. Professor Mayer is a truly undisputed expert. He's very suitable! [[Abg. Neudeck: Wouldn't you have taken it up for you like this!]] There was also a signal from your party, from the FPÖ, there was a signal from your head of state in Carinthia. But then it had to be someone in close relationship with you in a trust relationship, although he is not a party member. But this trust relationship is a much closer one than it could be a party book. This is our impression – our impression also because of what I got to hear in the hearing. Mr Aspirant, so to speak, to the office of the President of the Court of Auditors, who was already very victorious in the run-up, has in the hearing, in a relatively - I use the word - unloving ruckzucking procedures turned down all his ideas. I'm deliberately saying, down-educated. There was no attempt at a differentiated representation. He has mentioned keywords that are quite acceptable – not a question – such as the reduction of time limits for audit reports et cetera. But his performance, his idea, was, in my opinion, under the other quality which he has apparently shown sometimes, according to your judgments. Then I still have to correct something because his past at HL-AG was repeatedly discussion point. His contract amounted to €211 000. The contract of his predecessor Dr. Brenner amounted to €288 000. You said he was higher. - No, he was lower! Again such proof as a gentleman who comes out of Parliament's service then very likely picks out the raisins in the private sector. He can do that from me; but what he cannot do is, in my view, to become President of an independent control body. It's incompatible for me! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Let's end with one aspect: HL-AG or ÖBB! Transfer your post-carousel, close-to-party persons to private companies like constellations and directorial positions, so that they have a better income and are a little closer to you in your decision-making, is currently bringing the ÖBB into real turbulence, because a new board of directors should already act long ago. Not for nothing today is the day on which the transfer from HL-AG to the ÖBB should have been signed. And now this man is to become the President of the Court of Auditors. That doesn't fit in. They're missing it there and there! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e9636	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lap. Admissible time limit: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e9654	Madam President. High house! The activities of the Court of Auditors include the control of state finances and the accounts. The President of the Court of Auditors must radiate moral authority, put objective action as a maxim, and above all be a trust personality. It was important to find a new President of the Court of Auditors that the public can take a picture in a hearing. If this hearing were actually public, then the fear of the government, which was very attached to the fact that the hearing should not be public, would have flown up. Then this hearing would have been exposed to the government as a spectacle and bazaar negotiation. Even before the hearing began, it was clear who would win this: the FPÖ candidate, who was only proposed by the FPÖ, because the ÖVP has not put any names to the vote, it has only voted in favour. That FPÖ candidate Moser could not dissuade the accusation that he seemed to have passed the party financing law by donations of 5 million schilling. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] He used only lapidar words: I'm not a plastic sack! – This is moral authority. For the ÖVP candidates, the appearance was as if they were like wooden dolls on the silk thread of Master Gepetto, Molterer and Khol. They were here: Professor Hengstschlager, an ÖVP candidate who didn't figure himself any chances, Mrs Mag. Hochhauser, who spoke more about her activity in the Chamber of Commerce and was immediately proposed as new Secretary-General of the Chamber of Commerce, another ÖVP candidate, Dr. Lengheimer, who quickly retired as district governor in front of In-Power steps to obtain a settlement and a high pension in order to continue to work as District Council after a few months. [[Abg. Neudeck: Was very competent!]] In contrast, Professor Ewald Nowotny: He has proved himself to be a well-founded expert in hearing, has made concrete proposals, yes, he has even made international considerations. [[Rejoicing with the Freemans]] All these are crucial things that are necessary for such an important position. We thank you for your excellent performance! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Professor Novotny was the only candidate who did not go into stand-ups and placards, but developed very far-reaching visions. [[President Dr. Khol shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If the ÖVP says independence, it makes doll-player methods when the ÖVP says objectivity, it develops bazaar methods when the ÖVP speaks of integrity, then I wonder, what is with the “plastic-sacres” and who isn’t it? When the ÖVP speaks of competence, stand-ups and placards come out. Thus, an important control position in the state is occupied in a ridiculous doll game. The Court of Auditors has indeed not deserved this!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e9732	The next speaker is Mr Eder. 5 minutes welcome. . You are at the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e9750	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Much has already been said about the Causa President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors. I would like to say – as my colleague Fassleven is looking so nice and listening to me – that I am delighted that you learned something from this hearing, namely that my colleague Moser did not have a FPÖ party book, and that has impressed you very much. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Controller: We all listen!]] I can already imagine this: That wouldn't be possible in the ÖVP, would it? I think so. There's already a club secretary to have a party book! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: But with you too!]] Mr Neudeck, who also looks so nice at me – the government groups are really so nice to the opposition, I think I am very kind – has meant that the rapporteur's question was not an issue. [[Call the SPÖ:Dear!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Finally, you tell the truth!]] Well, yes! It's strange already: One agrees so wonderfully on Mr Moser, then comes the phase of consultation, and then President Khol to Clubobmann Molterer believes that the ÖVP would have to take over the report in the House. . I know there's no one up there, but it's about the formal protocol. All of them looked around in the ÖVP at once, and then the name fell from my district colleague Maier. He fought with his hands and feet and said he didn't. I thought it was going to have a reason. – I don’t know him yet, but maybe you can tell me. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Has such a thing ever happened?]] At any rate, the ÖVP was apparently extremely unpleasant to report because it was not the candidate of the ÖVP, but the proposal of the liberal party. The rapporteur then came out of the ranks of the Freedom Party. Mr Moser presented the argument regarding Mr Moser earlier that this was so difficult for the railway and so on. I have a pretty slow impression, at the railway you can do whatever you want to do, the trains are always driving on schedule, and what is happening up there in the management is no longer interested in the railways, but they do their business, see that the trains are driving, and above will stop trying to give some party guest some business. I don't think the Moser goes off the railway either. The trains will certainly continue tomorrow as if today's contract had been signed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: This is what Mr Cap said!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! But what's annoying me in the whole thing is that I'm invited to a hearing of honourable people, honest professors, which was really unworthy. I've been to many hearings, too, as far as companies are concerned. I've already looked at Assessment Centers and partly even led them, but what I've heard and had to listen to for a whole day – as I share the opinion of my colleague, Mr. Regler, we're both eating all day – was very strange. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: But not such a funny thing yet!]] The individual candidates took this seriously and really presented themselves seriously. However, the two government parties have already had the fixed view that Mr Moser should be. – There is no objection either. Nor do I personally say anything against Mr Moser, but it is about the way in which democracy has been done here. Today, Mr Regler praised Mrs Hochhauser – a woman who, in my opinion, made a very good impression. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Controller: It was also very good! Great!]] - Yes, but that was pointless. At the time when we were still pleased to make a good impression, Mr Moser's President of the Court of Auditors had long been fixed. That's actually what I'm condemning here. Now I also finally know what objectivity is with the government parties, that is, what we have heard and experienced here. – That’s objectivity with them! Now I also know how important positions are occupied with the government parties, and I now also know why four transport ministers were used, for example: because they were probably selected for a similar objectiveivity criterion or in similar hearings. If you choose them like that, they can't stay long. The Federal Minister, who was presented here today, must also have been so brightly found after a very difficult selection procedure. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Controller: A good water judge!]] – A good water judge, I even hear. – Well, the water will reach the government right up to the neck, so you will need a water judge who will lower the water a little! I am of this opinion, too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Controller: This is important! Carinthian lakes, very important!]] I now also know how ten or eleven ministers have been consumed. They were also selected in such a “super” assessment center. I also know how in future the other ÖBB Boards will be appointed. They are also probably selected for such a system. I also know and have learned how the supervisory boards are nominated and selected in the ÖIAG. And I also know, ladies and gentlemen, that our country is sinking in the swamp of the worst mailer! It was precisely the Freedom Party that always condemned the Post Office. – I remember a lot of speeches from you. [[Abg. Scheibner: We don't need your examples!]] You're the toughest post-chacker! There has never been such a chess as under the freedom of government in this country! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You don't believe that!]] I'm just saying one thing: This government has lost sight, and that is why you have long since no longer represented the majority of the population. You will soon notice that you will not be too long in this business, in the government.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e9978	The next honourable Member is Mr Mag. Mug reported. 5 minutes welcome. – You are speaking, Mrs Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e9996	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The hearing left a very bitter aftertaste with me, because it reminded me fatally of a pro-forma aptitude test at a suburban stage theatre: Although the seven persons in question as the main actors are examined by the jury for heart and kidneys, the result is fixed from the beginning. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: We've heard this a few times today! Is something new coming?]] The main role is not met by two criteria, which were the only one that failed to meet this qualification test. The role is played to him by agreements, and more than half of the jury members are involved in this farce. The problem is obvious: The power policy of just provisional theatre management has a negative impact on the quality of the theatre, and I wonder how badly it must be ordered about the state of the government coalition if both government parties need such a position as in the course of the FPÖ club director Dr. Moser to become the designated President of the Court of Auditors. The “Press” also writes about this – it has already been quoted from newspapers today, and the “Press” is truly not a newspaper close to the SPÖ – on 24 May. June: “Six other candidates,” – for the Office of the President of the Court of Auditors – “who stood up to the Hearing on Wednesday – in the main committee – “have been downgraded to Marionettes.” – Listen to me, colleague Neudeck! [[Abg. Neudeck: Don't you have a more exciting story? It's laborious!]] I've been listening to you, too. [[Abg. Neudeck: But it wasn't so tiresome!]] – Of course, you don’t want to hear that, that’s unpleasant for you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Look, now I've helped you out!]] I quote: “The fact that the coalition insisted on non-publicity reinforces the (applicable) impression that the whole thing between ÖVP and FPÖ was long since gone. The Chancellor's Party is currently trying to meet the liberals in order not to aggravate the government crisis, but to do so requires a sharper look." This obvious agreement on the award of posts without regard to qualifications and moral integrity is the only thing which the government still holds together, for nothing has gone on in recent times. The president's position was given to the FPÖ as a sedative game, in order to make an image of it, and this is also the last way of the FPÖ to accommodate their people in important functions. The ÖVP is responsible for degrading the Office of the President of the Court of Auditors to a game ball of intra-coalitional agreements. [[Abg. Neudeck: Can you justify this, or do you claim it?]] This is an expensive price that Austrians have to pay for it, because the government candidate has not been able to elucidate questions regarding illegal donations, nor have the questions under his contract been answered by him openly and fully. What does this mean for future office? – The government will install a President of the Court of Auditors for twelve years, lacking the moral authority. How should non-legislative contracts be shown in accordance with the legal requirements if it does not comply with and is concerned by its own contract? How can the Court of Auditors act as a moral authority if the President fails to comply with decisive requirements? The Austrian Court of Auditors, which is highly regarded in the population, has far from deserved this, and this has not deserved the Austrian population at all. This is a very sad spectacle that you offer us here, but in the end you will get the bill presented for it!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e10111	The next speaker was Mr Ddr. Decliner. Requested time: 5 minutes. – Please, you are at the floor, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e10130	Mr President. High house! We should wait for the term of office of twelve years to be over, then we would review our opinion towards the candidate you are proposing today, as was the case with President Fierdel. Well, we have today not to decide what will be in 12 years, but what we had on the basis of the hearing for an impression of the candidate and the candidates and which person is really suitable for this important office. [[Abg. Großruck: The “Partless” Novotny!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: We only showed you how you turned at the end of the year!]] Mrs Bleckmann said it was quality, it was not about having been packed. – colleague Bleckmann! Calculated As Secretary-General, she would need to know exactly about these packages between ÖVP and FPÖ. [[Abg. Neudeck: You can't know anything about something that doesn't exist!]] Mr Fassleven! You mean people will understand what you're doing here today. – I can tell you what I know from some discussions The opposite is the case: [[Call the ÖVP: At a SPÖ assembly!]] People do not understand what is happening here today because it is a party policy decision. They don't understand at all that a party like the ÖVP nominated three candidates and then at the end of the hearing says it was nothing they had all looked at and their three candidates had unfortunately not passed. – You may have thought that well before, who will exist here! People don't understand that this hearing had to be secret, because it would be natural for the population... – It was secret! [[Abg. Neudeck: It was not secret, but “not public ”!]] It wasn't public. [[Abg. Neudeck: It was not public, but not secret!]] – It was not a public meeting, no public hearing, and you have had good reasons not to make it public! It was a shame that people could make a picture of themselves. You were afraid of that. – Rightly, how it turned out! Therefore, we need to talk today about the candidates' skills and about the candidates who are on the election – or the candidates who are on the election, and those who have applied. I quote here Günther Schröder from the “Tyrol daily” in the issue of 24. In June, Josef Moser said that no unqualified candidate would be elected as the new President of the Court of Auditors on Monday. Moser is by no means the best of the seven applicants. – That is the way it has been presented for all those who have been able to follow this hearing closely! We had – and that has already been mentioned by some – two applicants who have undoubtedly brought a lot into this hearing, have also expressed themselves very competently on this new function and left an excellent impression. [[Abg. Neudeck: That won't be the Novotny again!]] – That was of course university professor Novotny, and it was also university professor Mayer. Professor Hengstschläger has also left a very good impression. They have presented a great many ideas, for example, on cooperation between the Federal Court of Auditors, the national courts and the control bodies at European level. Mayer has rather covered the area of constitutional and administrative law, while Professor Novotny – and this has certainly fallen in the hearing – has clearly worked out his economic competences, which are undoubtedly very necessary for this office. This concerns, for example, follow-up cost calculations, disbursements and the Court of Auditors or his ideas, which some of you have found quite questionable, as far as the award of subcontracts to distributed companies and the like is concerned. Therefore, the hearing confirmed that it was justified that we brought Professor Novotny as the most suitable candidate to the election and proposal. It was just like this: Professor Novotny was not allowed to be, because he is a social democrat. [[Abg. Grandruck: But that's new! He's partyless!]] Professor Mayer was not allowed to be, because he was nominated by the Greens. Professor Hengstschlager was not allowed to be, because the ÖVP nominated him, but she had already promised her votes to the FPÖ candidate Moser and therefore could not support her own candidate. This type of selection, which is being made today and how it was taken after the hearing, is a low point in parliamentarianism, and above all, it should be ashamed of those in the ÖVP who previously spoke very generously of choosing the best.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e10262	The next speaker is Mr Puswald. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e10281	Mr President. Non-existent Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! ==References== June, since the hearing of the candidates for the Office of the President of the Court of Auditors, it is said – salopp formulated – that: Instead of Schüssel after Brussels Schüssel in the ‘Reindl’. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This does not happen by chance, because the FPÖ has been so lost precisely because of this package around the President of the Court of Auditors, because it no longer stands for exactly what it has always done – no longer in the fight against privileges, no longer stands against the post office, but is itself an essential part of this chess. That's why the FPÖ is also so lost and stands on lost posts! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] It does not come about that Andreas Unterberger writes in the weekend edition of the “Press”: “What is this only for a party, this FPÖ? No one can count any more, for the most time she has paralysed the country with a crisis of government – and the result is as pitiful as ever. In addition, a new non-interesting State Secretary comes instead of another one. The party apparatus is probably taken over by very simple Carinthians.” Then there is a new Minister of Justice, a “the last offer at the last hour”, and so on. Now, of course, you could say: What interests us? as Professor Van der Bellen said in the morning. – The bad thing is that Austria as a whole suffers, because Schüssel is not even wanted by his own conservative friends abroad, because our Minister of Finance no longer wants to eat dinner with his colleagues in the EU. All this because it is precisely this policy of packing and mail chess that is not being gilled in Austria or abroad, as this ÖVP seems to be more and more approaching the unsuspecting of the FPÖ. – This has again been clearly demonstrated in the discussion today when words are promoted instead of content, especially as regards the President of the Court of Auditors. The highly qualified seven candidates have been mentioned here by Mr Gahr and also by Mr Regler. In this context, I must say: It is human contempt if, as we all know now, you have already unsealed before this hearing, who will become the new President of the Court of Auditors, and then misuse seven highly qualified personalities – and I deliberately say “abuse” – to sacrifice this hearing for a whole day, to prepare for it for days. From my point of view, that is contemptuous! These highly qualified personalities have not deserved it! This has also not been the case for your President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr Leitl, who has expressed more than clearly what he thinks about Mrs Hochhauser. This is something that the citizens of this country do not judge, but which is now institutionalized by you: a policy of disbelief, a policy of packaging and a policy of word aid. For example, if you're talking about dealing with and solving problems, I have to stop this: That's just as untrue! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] If you're talking about making reforms, I have to say: This is not right either, because you have done nothing except to reduce pensions, to distort federal property and other harmful acts at the expense of Austrian citizens, nothing at all! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] Mr President, your jestful or less jestful four-liners do not help. You can't deny that this government is at the end of its content and will only be able to secure the majority acquisition by the FPÖ with packaging in order to save yourself through the rounds until 2006. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, I would also like to mention one thing in this context, because today is constantly being driven around on the old themes, such as “chaos”. They are trying to sidetrack from today's chaos, which has become manifestly apparent through this constellation and the packaging around the President of the Court of Auditors, by speaking of the alleged chaos in 2000. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: You wanted to make the Novotny! That's a red one, too!]] In 2000, dear friend Scheuch, you took over something you say was chaos. The ÖVP agrees with this lamentation and forgets to say that it worked in this government for years before 2000 and, with its votes in the Council of Ministers, which is known to have unanimity, prevented all reforms. And you're blaming us with chaos! The chaos that exists today is very different from that which you referred to as chaos in 2000. This chaos today is no longer reversible and even justified by nothing, namely that chaos, that you replace politics with packaging, that [[Abg. Murauer: What ‘chaos’?]] [[Abg. Murauer: What ‘packley’?]] You are replacing the problem with words and you have, in fact, already adopted yourself from the political stage and are only getting more of a political life by somehow calming the FPÖ to save yourself in 2006. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e10383	The next speaker is Mr Faul. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e10401	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! There has already been a great deal of discussion today about why you, Mr Klubobmann Molterer, wanted to exclude the public from hearing. At the presentation of Dr. Moser, I became absolutely clear that you wanted to save both television and the other media the impression you gave us as an opposition party. We must not be an anti-terrorist or an expression researcher in order to recognize what has happened in them at the faces of the ÖVP delegates, and that in contrast to what you have said, Mr Fassleven. You have told us, Mr Fassleven, that you yourself have been opposed by the procedure and by this untold spectacle. During the entire presentation by Dr. Moser, you, Mr. Klubobmann Molterer, and all the others have hidden your heads behind newspapers and manuscripts. No sign of congratulation for your joint candidate! Steinerne Mienen, when Mr Pilz presented you with the scenario, which would spread and hold over the new President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, you have not seen Dr. Moser in the face either, as he excitedly, completely nervous and my impression of not having a good look at the rounds – from my point of view, a man who has seen the last chance of his personal life planning to present himself as the only kitt of the coalition, supported by you, Mr Scheibner of the FPÖ, who also sees the last chance to occupy these important posts and this significant position in our state before she disappears into insignificance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Also the ÖVP, in the background – he is now gone – also our German Chancellor Schüssel, saw in this deal the last chance to keep the coalition partner in the joint boat and thus secure the power. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! It was quite unpleasant – and you could see this by your facial expression – that you offered truly qualified candidates who were in all interests – you can't discuss it away – Dr. Moser far superior and could have dressed without the shadow of affairs of this office of the President of the Court of Auditors. What do you mean, what does a Dr. Lengheimer thinks about your voting behaviour, what does an Anna-Maria Hochhauser think or what does a colleague Hengstschäger think, who will probably remember the “Landtmann 2” in the budget room VI, with the difference that he would have been served in the “Landtmann” at least a coffee? Mr Bundeskanzler, it is embarrassing for you, it is embarrassing for the ÖVP, because in the light of the decisions taken, the decisions already quoted today, for example, the decision of Federal Chancellor Kreisky in 1980 to have elected with Tassilo Broesigke an independent candidate of the minority, who could really represent minority rights as the President of the Court of Auditors. To make such a decision would have been a stateman's intention, Federal Chancellor! If the Federal Chancellor had also heard Professor Ewald Nowotny, he would also have recognized that Professor Novotny would probably have been the only right candidate. So, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, someone who is only convinced of himself – but also did not succeed in all stages – and who, with the position of a President of the Court of Auditors, has a position of twelve years – is not possible longer – is assured that he would not have had at the ÖBB. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Wittauer: Now stop it!]] Another last thing, ladies and gentlemen, to this party donation affair, to the Turnauer millions, about which Mr Pilz has already spoken, who had taken the path from Vienna to Carinthia. Even if the future President of the Court of Auditors, Dr. Moser, had ten times confirmed that he was not a pack carrier, I would like to say, Mr Wittauer: The shadow of the pack will always hover over it, no matter if this affair is ever cleared up or not, for its position has always been packed between you two!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e10453	The next speaker is Mr Matznetter. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e10471	Mr President. Empty government bank! [[Call the ÖVP: Only when you talk!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is significant, however, what interest this Federal Government shows in relation to this House at all. [[Abg. Scheibner: Go in and learn the rules of procedure!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: You don't know each other!]] At least one of the many members of the government could make the effort to be here. But because this game here is a discounted game, a game that has been carded from the outset, in which your voting behaviour, ladies and gentlemen – and I especially point out to the representatives of the ÖVP – is already predetermined, one does not make this effort anymore. But let us stick to the question of Dr. Josef Moser's election proposal. – Today we have heard here several times or was told from this pult that Dr. Moser had declared perfectly that he had nothing to do with the process at that time. I made the effort to look into the “parliamentary correspondence” that was so kind to quote it literally – that is, under quotation marks. Moser said: “I’m not a man who has a plastic sack with 5 million. S in the hand and then say goodbye". In my opinion, however, Mr Pilz's question was precisely another: The money-carrier was the chauffeur Wolf, whom he quoted in the hearing; he was the payman. It was not about whether he pushed something into his hand, but whether he accepted the money and gave it to the office of Böhmdorfer. Ladies and gentlemen! Ordering a personality for twelve years is a high responsibility for this house. This requires more than voting according to the opinion of the political groups. It is a person – you yourself suggested – who must perform a clear control function in changing governments and, through their moral authority as the President of the Court of Auditors, must be able to show and ensure that there are maladies that exist. But they do not make it easy for this person to bring them in, even though they themselves need to be informed about their own activity in the past. But I come back to the core question: Seven candidates in a hearing where we were all present. In the end, Klubobmann Molterer summarized that there had been a number of positive proposals for the further development of this office. [[Abg. May. Molterer: But you didn't watch!]] I've been watching exactly what you called. Except for the question of the acceleration of the test reports that each of the candidates has mentioned, I have found nothing that has come from the Dr. Moser area. I've been very careful and can say: That's what all the candidates said! Real proposals for the further development of the Court of Auditors – backed by the world of modern auditing, taking into account the possibility of cooperation with other departments and, above all, other testing institutions – were actually only made by Professor Novotny, and I would like to thank Professor Novotny for this. He came, even though he knew that he would not find a majority with you, and he showed us there who really would have been a suitable candidate for this office and who would have been worthy to hold this office. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now we want to hope that if a majority for Dr. Moser comes up today, he himself has the chance to grow with the task. In the end, that's what you're scattering roses for here in advance. They say in twelve years it'll be called: He has done it like the Beetle!, and just as Dr. Fiedler has developed an image, he will do the same, and that will be what the opposition – we or anyone – will know. The problem for Dr. Moser is just: If the personality image is true, as it was drawn by the advocates, then there are a few small problems. First: Secretary-General Dr. Bleckmann emphasized his loyalty. . Well, loyalty to that group that has put him in a position is what we least need in the role of the President of the Court of Auditors. He just didn't need loyalty to the FPÖ, he needed a clear and independent position instead. Whether he was a member of the FPÖ or not: Sorry But the FPÖ problem of having a club director who is not even willing to join the working party is, in fact, just a problem for the FPÖ, but does not point to its independence. But I'm not someone who says in advance, the person concerned can't make it. I'm just saying, You should take the opportunity to re-enter in a secret election and, above all, the representatives of both government groups; both! – to consider whether they really vote in a secret election Dr. Moser. No one would find it unpleasant today if it were a few votes less in the secret election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e10563	Mr Wittauer is now speaking. Desirable time: 3 minutes. . You are at the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e10581	Mr President. High house! Mr Matznetter! I've got to be surprised. First of all, you should read the Rules of Procedure: The National Council is responsible for the Court of Auditors, not the Government. But your procedure to highlight a candidate here – yours – and to suggest to us that we are party-political is almost ridiculous. If MP Puswald goes here and dissuades the candidate Moser and says, on the other hand, that six candidates have been presented, then I have to get rid of him: I do not know, Mr Puswald, whether you, if Mr. Dr. Moser is not elected, say that Dr. Moser has also been presented. It is undisputed, and that is across all the daily newspapers, the following: The trade union boss Haberzettl is not anyone, he is one of you, of the Social Democrats, and if he praises Dr. Moser – then our all the President of the Court of Auditors – before, is that so bad? Do you always have to look for the negative? But there's always a history: Before that you praised him, you said he was a good club director that he was a good board of directors at the Bundesbahnen, but after that, all of this is not worth anything more! You need to come a little in front of your own door. If it were your own candidate, you'd probably be full of praise over Dr. Moser. It would have lost a good candidate – but now it's just the other way round. But one thing I didn't hear: That it would have been referred to the contents! Plastiksäckerl and so on – everything you put under someone. Mr. Dr. Moser has set very clear targets for his activity. He said quite clearly that he wanted to increase the efficiency of the audit activity, that he wanted to force the preparation of individual reports, that he had certain ideas on the presentation of the audit results with regard to the assessment of individual audit criteria, on the reduction of the period between the start of the examination and the report template to the National Council despite the formal procedure. – It is an entire list of areas he has explained. Not once, however, has a Member of the opposition mentioned this in any form! You just assumed you wanted to make a bad candidate out of a good candidate. I'm telling you today: He was a good candidate in the past, he's a good candidate today, and he'll be a very, very good tomorrow President of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e10626	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Sima. 5 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e10645	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr President, with her permission I will no longer speak on the subject of the President of the Court of Auditors, but I will address just a few farewell words to the plenary. This is my last speech here, and I can tell you: The farewell speech is just as hard for me as my speech of departure. I was very afraid at the time. It was an anti-atomic thing of the Greens, and I was standing down here and hoping that the 5 minutes would be over very quickly. I hope so, honestly, now, too. I will try not to be too pathetic and not to break into tears. I actually wanted to press ahead with this farewell speech, but many colleagues said: I can't! So I'm standing here trying to find some nice and binding farewell words. Ladies and gentlemen! It was a very nice and instructive time for me. I've learned a lot. I came here in 1999 as a cross-country beginner. I didn't know anyone in the SPÖ club – except club boss Kostelka and Josef Cap from TV, otherwise nobody else. [[Rejoicing]] At the beginning it was not quite easy to deal with. [[Call at the ÖVP:Gusenbauer is unpleasant!]] So, Alfred Gusenbauer wasn't party leader at the time, if I can remind you. [[Abg. Neudeck: But Members already!]] All 70 Members, I think, do not know ordinary citizens. This will be no different for your club either, Mr. Cot. I don't think we need to lie in the bag. I would now like to thank all my group colleagues who at the outset have really helped me to find myself in this House. I would also like to thank those who at the beginning have given me a little more critical eye, but then really helped me and accepted me as one of yours. Thank you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Thanks also to my two clubmen, Peter Kostelka and Josef Cap. I think they didn't always have it just with me. There have also sometimes been conflicts, and I think Josef Cap owes at least one, if not two of his gray hair to me. [[Abg. May. Molterer: The caster for the rest!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Then we kind of got together at the end. As far as the work is concerned, I must say: It is not always easy for members of the opposition, because the work is mainly to show the sins of the Federal Government – which may sometimes exist – but not really constructively to cooperate. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Who does not exist!]] That is why I have seen the Animal Protection Act, which we have recently decided here, as one of the highlights of my political work in this House, because it was possible to put in very constructive proposals through the corresponding constellation, for which it has taken many years, and to amend it, to implement very concrete improvements also for the animals and then to conclude a law that very many people have waited for many years. I'm actually very proud of that, and I've had a lot of fun. [[General condolences.]] I also hope in the interests of Parliament that there will be as many such laws as possible. I think it was a lesson for parliamentary work, as we naturally want it to be strengthened. I also hope that with my successor Jan Krainer – he will play the environmental role in my group – there will be a good cooperation of all political groups. Finally, there is a general concern: Environmental protection is increasingly down from the Austrian list of priorities, but also from politics. Environmental protection is becoming less and less important. This hurts me personally because I have made environmental protection, as you know, my heart concern for many years. I can only hope that you will all really help and cooperate here, that environmental protection will again become an important issue on the priority list. Ladies and gentlemen! I am looking forward to my new challenge in Vienna. I am not entirely out of the world, and we will certainly still hear from each other because I also intend to interfere as an environmental councillor a little in federal politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e10742	Mrs Mag. Sima, you're leaving this house after four years. As an environmental expert, they have acquired respect beyond the political groups. We wish you luck and success for your new function as a city councillor! Good luck! [[General condolences.]] The next speaker on a similar issue is Mr Nuremberger. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e10798	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! [[General cheerfulness, because Abg. Nürnberger has put the speaker's seat too far down.]] – Don't do anything! [[Intervening calls, including various advice on the adjustment of the speaker's desk.]] As far as the agenda is concerned, the Members of my group have already said the essential thing, and I fully agree with them. However, I can count on the goodwill of Mr President-in-Office and also on your goodwill and thank my group for two, three, four minutes of speaking time, which I would also like to use in private matters. I don't think I can tell you much surprise now, because it's already gone through the media: I have decided for a number of private reasons to leave this House. It is, if I add that to one year's Federal Council, almost on the day exactly 21 years I belong to this House. Mrs Fekter, you allow me now to return a brief private conversation, a four-eye conversation, which I normally do not do: The honourable Member asked me: But as a social partner, do you keep me? That's what I said: Yes. And I've added – and that's one of the most important reasons for my leave: We decided on a very dedicated work programme on the last trade union day. There are a lot of good things in it, and I would like to make a few more points of putting it into practice. But I also said at the same time that it was good things in the interest of the economy, and if I say ‘in the interests of the economy’, many in this House know that I always mean both: Employers and employees. Since this work programme requires all my work force and, as you know, we are working on the merger of a new, large and powerful union, I would like to make available in the future my entire labour force of the Metal-Textil union. So I decided by 30. June to leave the High House. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to say a little self-critical: When I went to the speaker's desk here, there was usually a slightly higher level of noise. But I would like to use it for myself – and I believe that the statistics of the calls for order reflect this – I have always tried never to argue personally or under the belt line. If some colleague or colleague has the impression that I have personally attacked too hard, then I may ask for for forbearance afterwards, then I would like to apologize in every way. I would also like to say a warm thank you to all the employees of this house. In 21 years you have needed the support of almost all the employees of this house. Above all, the stenographs have not always had it easy with me, but in the Minutes I have always been able to read my speech in wonderful German! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Thank you so much for that! [[towards log management]] [[General condolences.]] Of course, I would also like to thank my colleagues from the club. I'm not going to lose you, I'm still keeping you in some functions. But I'm going to tell you this in the club itself. I say to all of you, ladies and gentlemen: It was a nice time, it was a instructive time. I wish you all the best for the future! Happy luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e10876	Mr Rudolf Nürnberger! The long-lasting applause of all political groups shows that you have acquired in 21 years the reputation, respect and appreciation of all political groups. I would also like to express my personal appreciation to you as a socialist trade unionist. You've always fought with an open visor. I can remember some talk. They were very direct, always with humor, hand-beat quality, a social partners of scrap and grain. We regret you leaving this house! All right, my colleague. Good luck! [[General condolences.]] [[Abg. Nürnberger rises from his place and thanks with a bowing.]] Mr Pilz. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party and of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European But that's not a good-bye speech, I suppose. [[Numerous Oje-Rufe at the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e10925	This is a welcome thing, as I deserved in a long parliamentary life! [[General hustle and bustle.]] Nevertheless, I would like to point out to you: I'm not going to leave this house today. [[New Oje-Rufe.]] I'll keep you, and I can assure you: You deserved me. [[Lively cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] From Ulli Sima and Mr Nürnberger, I would like to say very briefly: from Ulli Sima, who has the real merit, to the SPÖ, who at that time needed it even more urgently than today, and who I have learned to appreciate as a good colleague; from Mr Nürnberger, of whom not only I am convinced that this country needs very decent representatives of interest who, in certain situations, are also willing to place the interests of its own members on the interests of its own party, not only in coalition negotiations, but also in some other memorable discussions. Before I become quite melancholy now, I add that there is someone I would like to say goodbye to now, that is Dr. Josef Moser; for many good reasons that have already been mentioned today, for a reason that has not yet been mentioned, and this reason is called lawyer Dr. Machold. [[Call:Don't cry]] We have not yet talked about this, because this testimony has not yet been published in full, namely that not only a shark driver, but also lawyer Dr. Machold has said before the prosecutor and put it on record under the duty of truth, that Dr. Josef Moser, in his capacity as a liberal clubman of one day, as a club director, apologise; I take it back with any expression – has appeared as a club director in the law firm of Dr. Böhmdorfer and the completely surprised and only present in the firm at that time. [[Objection to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Call: That's never been him.]] Machold handed over a bag in which, surrounded by banderols, exactly the five million schilling found. Later, Dr. Böhmdorfer's colleague and law firm, Ms. Mag. Gheneff reported in the firm, asked where the money was left, and then subsequently also ensured it. We have now made two legal statements under the obligation of truth: those of the Haider-Chauffeur and one of the former employees of the Böhmdorfer-Gheneff firm. Both confirm that the plastic bag with the 5 million schilling has been picked up by Dr. Moser and personally brought to the office Böhmdorfer. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: We also have Dr. Moser's statement!]] He did this as a liberal club director. You now want to elect this gentleman as President of the Court of Auditors – someone who is well aware of not only a chauffeur but today's lawyer, his risk for his profession and for his future activity – says that he has probably become eyewitnesses of a file of probably illegal party funding! [[Abg. Scheibner: If you criticize him, this is an award for him! I can tell you that!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Maybe you really don't care because you're used to that, maybe that's the most normal thing in your party. In the rule of law Austria, illegal party financing is certainly not the most normal in the world! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Do not put the word “law ” in the mouth! It would be better not to take the word “law ” into your mouth!]] A Dr. Moser at the head of the Court of Auditors is a serious impairment and threat to the work of this serious institution, which is close to the National Council, like few institutions in that Republic. We already knew that we have to protect many things in the Republic from the Freedom Party, but we have to hope that some colleagues of the Austrian People's Party can find themselves today, in order to protect the institution of the Court of Auditors at the last moment and to preserve its reputation, that is not exactly an hour of the Parliament that it has got so far. With the election that will take place now, we have a last chance, and I really appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party: Give the Court of Auditors a chance that you will not elect Dr. Moser as his President! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e11046	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the votes. We shall first proceed to the vote on the request by Mrs Kräber, Mag. Kogler, ladies and gentlemen, to refer the matter back to committee. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give an appropriate sign. – The application does not find the majority and is therefore rejected. I announce that there is a desire to vote according to § 88 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure in election cells. I am therefore going ahead and interrupt the meeting to prepare this election.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e11108	I'll start the interrupted session again. We'll make our choice. The minutes to be used shall be issued by the registrar, together with Kuvert, on behalf of the registrar. Only those official polls can be used for the election. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, on the vote, vote in favour of the proposal of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to elect Dr Josef Moser as President of the Court of Auditors, to cross the circle next to the word 'yes'. Those Members who oppose this proposal are seeking to cross the circle next to the word ‘no’. Votes on other persons shall be as invalid as voting papers from which the voter's will is not clearly recognizable. The right to vote shall be exercised in the electoral cell. The voting paper inserted in the envelope will then be thrown into the urn provided. I call on Mr Wimmer to begin with the name call; Mrs. Dr. Fekter will replace him later. – Please start with the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e11160	I don't see anyone in the election cells anymore. – I ask: Have all the convoys had the opportunity to vote? Is there anyone else who hasn't voted? - That's not the case. That concludes the vote. I now ask the officials of the House to make their votes under the supervision of the authors. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e11193	I will resume the interrupted session and announce the results of the election. Members cast: 179; of which: 179. According to § 87 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure is therefore 90 votes in favour. There were 94 votes in favour and 85 votes in favour. Thus, Dr. Josef Moser has been elected President of the Court of Auditors. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00069_d7e11257	I am still announcing that in today's session the self-employed applications were submitted 426/A to 430/A. In addition, requests from 1933/J to 1957/J have been received. The next meeting of the National Council, which serves business communications and allocations, is scheduled for 5:34 a.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
