ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e2155	The meeting was opened. Deputies of Broukal and Dr Bleckmann are reported as prevented. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e2183	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the resolutions of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following communication: Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour Dr. Martin Bartenstein will be sent by Federal Minister Maria Rauch-Kallat, Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Dr. Ursula Plassnik through Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Josef Pröllress. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e2216	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e2370	According to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the request made prior to the entry into the agenda Written question 2282/J by Dr Glawischnig, colleagues to the Federal Minister for the Interior concerning “repetitious scandalous disregard of the rule of law by the Minister of the Interior”. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed at 3 p.m. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e2397	Let's go into the agenda. The report of the Committee on Budgets on the Government Template (650 of the Supplements): Federal Finance Act 2005 and Investments (670 of the Supplements). There is no wish of the rapporteur-general for oral reporting. We will hold the debate in accordance with our practice in such a way that general statements, which are actually part of the general debate, can be made in connection with the advisory groups I and II. It also intends to negotiate advisory groups I and II under one. In any event, the corresponding budget chapter will be discussed at the end of the negotiation of the Federal Estimate on the same day. The planned breakdown of the debate and the vote within the meaning of § 73 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure can be found in the work plan issued. Are objections raised against this breakdown or the joint negotiation of Advisory Groups I and II? - That's not the case. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e2434	Consensus on the design and duration of the debates was reached at the Presidential Conference: Accordingly, a day-block speaking time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ is proposed, so that the following speaking times arise: ÖVP and SPÖ each 158, Free 108 and Green 117 minutes. The term of office of the member of the government responsible for the respective advisory group, which exceeds 20 minutes, or the speaking time of the Secretary of State responsible for the respective advisory group, which exceeds 10 minutes, shall be taken into account for the speaking time of the respective government group. Furthermore, the speaking time of non-governmental government members or state secretaries should at least be taken into account for the speaking time of the respective government group. With the exception of this, the speaking time of Mr Vice-Chancellor in the general debate held under Consultative Groups I and II shall be as long as the speaking time does not exceed 10 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (650 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Law on the Approval of the Federal Estimate for the Year 2005 (Federal Finance Act 2005 – BFG 2005) together with investments (670 d.b.) Advisory Group I Chapter 01: Presidential Chancellery Chapter 02: Federal legislation Chapter 03: Constitutional Court Chapter 04: Administrative Court Chapter 05: Public Prosecutor's Office Chapter 06: Court of Auditors Advisory Group II Chapter 10: Federal Chancellery Chapter 13: Arts
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e2538	We are now entering the joint debate on the advisory groups I and II of the Federal Proposal for 2005. There was no oral reporting. First speaker, Mr Dr. Gusenbauer. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e2563	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I miss the Minister of Finance, he may still appear. [[Abg. Amon: I'm glad he's missing you!]] [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: Supreme Organs!]] - Ah, you think the Minister of Finance is no longer one of the Supreme Institutions. Do you have any plans, Mr. Federal Chancellor? Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Especially if the Minister of Finance is not there, it makes sense to point out that the Minister of Finance – Mr Bundeskanzler, you did not hear that yesterday – tried in an incomparable way to mislead Parliament by dealing with figures that were completely far from reality and trying to represent that what you were trying to stage at your jubilee celebrations, namely the rise of Austria since 1945, did not happen – the words of the Minister of Finance. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Go, please!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You didn't understand!]] And I say quite clearly: This kind of deterioration in the history of Austria and the rise of our country by the Minister of Finance is totally unacceptable, ladies and gentlemen! [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In his budget speech for the next year, the Minister of Finance has meant that it is the best economic year in history – the best economic year of history! And the question is: Why, then, does the Minister of Finance, if it is the best economic year, provide for the highest deficit in its entire term of office? Why is the answer to the best marketing year the highest deficit? – Many have meant, well, there are impulses for the sustainable development of our country. But when you look at the budget, you can see: Education expenditure – as discussed yesterday – is not increased. Research and development expenditure will not be increased. Expenditure on essential infrastructure will not be increased. In other words, this Minister of Finance makes the highest budget deficit without giving impetus to sustainable growth and employment. And this is the wrong way, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The budget path attached to this budget for the next few years does not suggest anything good. It is noted that the highest deficits will be estimated by the 2006 election year and, at once, from 2007 onwards, the budget deficit will be significantly reduced for some inventive reasons. If you provide that you want to reduce the deficit by 0.7 percent of the gross domestic product, it is obvious that you have the usual strategy: Before the election promise everything and after the election cause savings packages with the population again. Ladies and gentlemen! This is not a correct economic policy if you spend the money now and then try to get it back through savings packages. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] To the much quoted tax reform, which is now to be the time of harvest. – We have looked at this time of harvest. Mr Finanzminister, this is not a harvest, it is a failure! Because if you don't even give the Austrians back what you have taken away from them in recent years through social taxes and tax, fees and tax increases, then you can't talk about a harvest, but at best about partial reparation, and also the funding you only on pump. So it is not a harvest, it is a failure, and this budget is unable to solve the problems and challenges of our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But it didn't take long. After the tax reform, many Austrians felt confirmed again. The majority of the population believes that the tax reform will bring it little, because after that it will come back to the burden, which will limit the impact of the tax reform. It has not taken long, and already recipe fees are located on the table, it has not taken long, and already the increase of the hospital fee is located on the table. We'll see what further burdens you're going to come with. The truth is: For the majority of Austrians, this tax reform is a label failure because it does not give people back what is ultimately theirs! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Since you, Federal Chancellor, are here today in the house, I would like to remind you of a promise you made here in Parliament a few months ago. When there was a discussion about a supposed or actual enemy takeover of VA Tech, you and the Finance Minister here said that you will not allow this pearl of Austrian industry to be smashed and sold abroad. We've known for a few days that there's been a takeover offer. And my question is: Have you been negotiating with Siemens? [[Abg. Scheibner: Just ask Mrs. Ederer!]] What measures do you take to ensure that this “pear of the Austrian industry” will not be smashed? And how will be Are you fulfilling this promise that you have made to Parliament? Because I'm telling you: The uncertainty among employees is significant, the Works Council has expressed its support for negotiations. And now the ball is with you. How do you fulfill the promise you made to Parliament here? I am of the opinion that a Federal Chancellor cannot afford to simply make promises without redeeming them. So explain. You're telling us today: How will you prevent the crushing of this “Pearle of the Austrian Industry”? What agreements have you reached with the new majority owner? And how will you support the people who do good work in these companies in their work accordingly? You deserved it! It's about Austria's industrial location. It is one of the most important technology companies – and we have here earned clear answers and we expect them.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e2700	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Molterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e2719	Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! High house! Mr Gusenbauer, obviously you looked in the mirror in the early days, otherwise you would not have been able to start your speech with the words "failing". [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Gusenbauer, you have drawn a picture of Austria at the speaker's desk again today, which simply does not correspond to reality. – I am proud of our country, ladies and gentlemen! [[Lively condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] I am proud of the achievements of the Austrians! I am proud of the achievements of the workers and the companies. However, if you think that you have to succeed with this policy, then I think you are not right, but that is not my problem. My problem begins when you, Dr. Gusenbauer, believe that in Austria you can make a policy that seamlessly joins the 1970s, namely debt making, and, and, [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Who makes debt?]] Dr. Gusenbauer! In the meantime, the world has developed further. Austria has developed further – thank God! – thanks to the power of the citizens and the good work of the Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen! [[Lively condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] You also give me the opportunity today to point to the differences between old socialist politics and modern politics, which strengthens Austria, even on the basis of your speech. Let me give you a few examples: In recent weeks, for example, they have said critically that, thanks to the policy of the Federal Government, the tax rate is falling. For example, Mr Sburny and Mr Matznetter have increased to say that a high tax rate is a civilian achievement. Do you know what that is? – A high tax rate is a high burden on citizens, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] A high tax rate means: More for the state, less for the citizen. We're doing it the other way around. Less for the state and more for the citizens, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] You say, Mr Gusenbauer, that, in connection with the tax reform, again today, the tax reform is a wrong development. Yeah, what are you doing? – You have said the truth with your economic concept: You don't want to relieve, but you want to burden. Increase property tax, increase inheritance tax, increase wealth tax, tax rental income – this is your policy! We pay off, ladies and gentlemen, fair and fair. We relieve the people involved in small and medium-sized incomes, including those in this country, ladies and gentlemen. Why? – Because we need the service providers in our society! We turn away from the old socialist policy of taxing service providers. No, no, no, We are fair and fair with small and medium-sized incomes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We relieve companies because we know that companies create jobs. Businesses do work! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I hear from you again and again that we are making gifts to the companies. But ask the Voest why the Voest is able to invest €2 billion and have the highest level of employment in its history. You know why? – Because with the tax reform, we have sent the right signals to relieve companies of creating work in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] You, Mr Gusenbauer, are talking about deficit today. You know, there has been a very crucial part of your image, namely the SPÖ zigzag course. Once you said: Zero deficit in the Constitution. Today, the deficit is too high for you, but at the same time tax relief is too low. I don't know how you want to explain that. This may have arisen in a maximum of any economic school à la SPÖ. It just doesn't work together, ladies and gentlemen. We know that we are buying a slightly higher deficit in the area of the budget, the budget, which is true. Mr Van der Bellen, if we had not set economic impulses and had not carried out tax relief, we would be in a very minimal part in the deficit area and in the surplus area as early as 2006. But why do we do that? – Because we want to set impulses now because we want to strengthen the upswing now because we want to strengthen the opportunity for work and employment now! That is why this is an investment in the future, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] And if you, Mr Gusenbauer, address the question of privatisation today, you are at least, I say, courageous in the historical dimension. For what you have condemned in the time of your responsibility, the responsibility of the SPÖ, in the national policy, is not only a sheet of paper, but also a political cow's skin, ladies and gentlemen! They gave billions of tax money from SPÖ in this barrel without any ground – and the effect was higher debt and 100 000 jobs less. This is your privatisation policy à la SPÖ! We do it differently: We have achieved a massive reduction in the debt in the ÖIAG, but at the same time we have also achieved a massive increase in the value of companies, in the ÖIAG. And this path of nationalization will continue because it is right for jobs and is right for the location Austria, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] With this budget, we also put the right impulses. I think this is important for the future and for the future strategy, for the economic location and thus for our country. We simply want to end these recipes of the past à la SPÖ. That is why we are investing massively in research and development with this budget. We have created new structures, for example with the National Foundation, and we take more public money into our hands so that we can finally meet the goal of strengthening the location of Austria, the development and research location of Austria. And we're already seeing that we're successful today. There has never been a research rate of 2.3 percent in this country! A thank you for the policy of this federal government – it is right and forward-looking, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We are, of course, investing in education and training at all levels. I think it is right that we implement the reforms in the university area, as we thereby strengthen the attractiveness of the educational location and the qualification location of Austria. But not only there! We do not see the cure on the question of qualification at university level. We need the highly qualified skilled workers, we need – and have – the very efficient training in the field of apprentices, so that we can also strengthen the location of Austria at this level. We are strengthening the location with the highest infrastructure expenditure that has ever existed, because we know: Infrastructure is a prerequisite for work, is a prerequisite for employment, because only good infrastructure brings companies to Austria, just like tax relief, ladies and gentlemen! We invest in security – more than ever before in security! – because we know that precisely as far as security is concerned, people have a right to offer them not only externally but also to internal security: through police reforms, especially through more money and more staff, so that we can answer this crucial issue of location for our citizens in the best possible way. We are concerned that in the field of social security, for example through reforms in pensions and reforms and additional resources in the family sector, we are actually helping society to remain in a social balance, that we have a human society in the future, and above all that we are actually offering young people in this country the right perspectives, namely, security and social balance. The success of this policy, ladies and gentlemen, can be seen. We know that in Austria next year we will have the highest growth rate with 2.5 percent economic growth and thus come closer to the goal of full employment that we have. – This too is a success of this federal government, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is a success of this federal government because we implement the reforms and have the courage to reform because we put the right impulses, including with this 2005 budget, but above all – and this is the political difference to the opposition – because we trust people and we do not overreact everything to the state. We are giving courage to people, ladies and gentlemen, courage for a good future!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e2846	Mr Dr. Mr Matznetter. – Please begin the actual correction by replaying the claim to be corrected, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e2868	Mr President. Mr. FPÖ-Klubobmann Molterer... - Excuse me! –, the ÖVP club Molterer said in his speech that I would have said that a higher tax and tax ratio would be an expression of civilisation. [[Vivid ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Not even he knows!]] – That’s wrong! I'm actually correcting: I never said that. I just pointed out that in the long history of the centuries, a higher state ratio is an expression of civilization. It is the social state, the welfare state, and we stand by it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e2925	Mrs Sburny spoke about another actual correction.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e2952	Mr Molterer claimed here that I would have called a high tax rate a ‘civilisatorial performance’. - That's wrong! The correct thing is: I have found in replica on my colleague's head of the ÖVP, who has called a high tax rate a modern slavery, that a high tax rate, such as in Sweden, can lead to a better performance of state tasks, such as comprehensive childcare and a high female employment rate.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e2982	The next speaker was Mr Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e3007	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We're not going to really get along like that, are we? [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The applause is ironic, I understand. What I mean is: A bit of a pedagogical claim we must already have politicians. In the noise before, I have missed what the colleague Matznetter has actually corrected. I really didn't understand it acoustically. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] However, I have heard applause from the ÖVP when my colleague Sburny said, one of you – I have already forgotten who – one of the ÖVP delegates has called a high tax rate as a “slavery indicator”. [[Rejoicing]] And that's where you clattered. [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups, that's not true again? Then, after my speech, you or the person concerned or the person concerned may make an actual correction, which is exactly what you really meant now, because I think you should deal with this issue a little more sensitive. In particular, you are tormented by the government's fractions with a 300 million additional package to finance hospital exits and health. This is not immoral from the principle. However, if at the same time you claim that high taxes are a priority a slave indicator, how would you like to explain to the population higher fees, higher contributions there and perhaps some tax – in your health package, for example, included an increase in tobacco tax? That's all slavery? This is absurd, Mr Molterer! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] They're really going to be in a dangerous area. Let us leave out the social security contributions, where it is obvious that they flow somewhere where it makes sense. And let's also get rid of the question of how many inefficiencies there are actually still; we all know that. But essentially, it is health, health care, disease control, pensions, a huge proportion of social security contributions. Is this a slavery indicator, these contributions to it? Or in the case of tax revenue: Never go out and talk to the people and try to make them clear why we pay taxes? We do not like to pay taxes – I do not, neither do you and the so-called people on the street – but we have a functioning – well, we are waiting for the PISA report – school system that deserves this name. We have a university system that is financed only to a small part from study contributions. We have a police that ensures internal security – hopefully. We have a large-scale judicial system. The judges believe we have far too few judges and prosecutors. It costs more money. Do you never try to explain to people that this also requires something about resources?- Oh, my God! We all have to apply these means of taxation, but this is not a slavery! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] On the other hand, if you think that, in most parts of these areas of responsibility, the state share is too high, you say it quite openly. Of course, there are political possibilities here to do something. Of course, one can completely privatize the universities and finance them completely through study contributions. Is that what you want? Do you want to see that in school life as before – when I was very young, did it still exist, I think, in folk school and in middle school – contributions of parents are necessary? Do you really want that? If you don't want to, stop talking about this slavery! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Then you have to explain to the people again and again: Yes, it is hard, we do not like to pay wage tax, we do not like to pay income tax, turnover tax, tobacco tax – the latter also concerns my person – but in general, without prejudice to all the Court of Auditors' reports on the inefficiencies that exist, in general, it is not a black hole in which these taxes disappear. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Actually, quite a statement of satisfaction with the work of the Federal Government!]] But this has nothing to do with the work of the Federal Government! [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] I am actually in advance of 2005 and 60 years of Second Republic. We will have plenty of opportunity to put the good together and the less good. [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: That's it!]] All right. Upper institutions, 2005 budget. [[Abg. Scheibner: A pity that time is so slow!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] No, not at all! I've got 20 minutes. The speaking time is set to a little shorter, but if it becomes 20 minutes, then you will be able to endure this too, colleagues from the "Sclavery Group". [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] On the occasion of the budget speech by Minister of Finance Grasser, I have essentially made three criticisms, plus universities, research and so on, and I do not see the slightest reason to take back something from these three points; I would like to stress this here. And I will then come back to the main point, which has personally hurt the Minister of Finance and caused some trouble. But I'll just say again how the matter is in the meantime. “Resurrection through discharge”, the speech was overtitled. “Resurrection through discharge” is the suggestion that the upswing is caused by redemption, and that is white nonsense, and you know that, Mr Molterer, you know this, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Do you accuse Wifo of white nonsense? Do you blame the IHS and the Wifo? That's great!]] If you look at the Wifo report and the IHS reports, you will notice that the growth in the order of one tenth – a tenth of 2.5 percent – is forecast; hopefully, this is going to go back to tax relief in 2005. Okay, you can talk about it. But don't say that the upturn – hopefully it comes from the 2.5 percent economic growth next year! – due to tax relief. It's white nonsense! He's being supported, it's a small contribution. – If you say that, okay, then we don’t have to argue, but please don’t use these eternal soap bubbles, air bubbles, balloons, where something true is blown up so that it’s false. Why Make You do? [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Second suggestion: The deficit is the result of the 2005 tax reduction. - That's white nonsense! At best, the deficit can be attributed to a quarter of the tax reduction in 2005. Of course, if you take all the measures that have been taken since 2000 and in some way either increase expenditure or lower taxes, probably the double of the deficit will be a matter of action, but I say: In any event, the 2005 tax reform contributes to a quarter of the deficit, and the rest you have to explain differently. I don't know how, but you have to explain the rest differently. Third point: the ‘debt Karli’. Again to the memory: I said a conditional sentence. I said: If the government parties – if so! – have at that time considered it right, the policy of Rudi To characterise Edlinger with the term “culpable Rudi”, the term “culpable Karli” is justified for Minister of Finance Grasser looser. [[Abg. Neudeck: If I have nothing to say, I don't go out at all!]] In the meantime, our research – but I do not guarantee it; this is a preliminary unconfirmed result – shows that no one other than Andreas Khol has invented this expression at the time, namely the “guilt Rudi”. [[Oh, by the greens.]] But we need to confirm this preliminary outcome. [[Abg. May. Hoscher: Are you talking about this in the Presidential?- Oh, my God!]] Mr. Finanzminister, I understand you're worming this. But if you look at your own overview 7 on the budget speech and correct it on the basis of the results of the negotiations on the financial compensation, then the following is quite clear – and I will give you a point of law so that you are also satisfied: As far as absolutes are concerned – billions € – the deficit in 2005 is higher than all Edlinger deficits. [[Abg. Ellwall: That's wrong! It was higher in 1998!]] Hardly higher. In 1998, I admit that. Without social security, the Edlinger deficit – let's look at it – is almost the same level: 5.77 billion versus 5.79 billion of Minister of Finance Grasser. So, it's equally high; that's in the field of statistical errors. But according to the data available, Grasser is minimally higher, significantly higher than 1999, and if you take in social insurance, Grasser with €6 billion is significantly higher than then Edlinger with €5.8 billion. Now on social security. - Grasser's annoyed that I'm taking social security in there. Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, it is statistically common – as he has the right, Mr. Finanzminister – to identify four sectors: Federal sector, countries, municipalities and social security institutions. Yes! And now I ask you if I look at the three local authorities: To whom in God's name is the social security to be attributed? Are the municipalities responsible for increasing health insurance contributions or for changing the composition of the main association? - It's new to me. Are the countries responsible for increasing health insurance contributions or for changing the composition of the main association? - It's new to me. The Federation is responsible, who else? Of course! But even without this point – which is only 0.1 percent of the social product – things are that way. On one point, however, I give you the right, Minister of Finance: As regards relative figures, the share of gross domestic product, the 1998 deficit to be accounted for by Minister of Finance Edlinger has actually been higher than yours, depending on how it is calculated, by 0.4 to 0.5 percentage points of GDP. Should be, okay. [[Call at the ÖVP: Will be, yes!]] [[Abg. Brosz: Vice chancellor bowl back then!]] If you – I say it again – continue to insist on discriminating the “debt Rudi” in this form, then you yourself are guilty if the Minister of Finance here needs to be characterized by the exact analogy, symmetrical expression. If S’ were not so mean at the time, you wouldn’t have to be so angry today! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] In the meantime, about three weeks have passed since the budget speech. We have a new starting point – or not: Financial compensation and health reform. There's a signed pact, it just didn't keep. 200 million more for countries, municipalities and a small part for compulsory school teachers; this was not planned at the time, the federal government now gives it additional to the countries and communities. This increases the federal deficit by around 0.1 percent of GDP. Second point: the approximately 300 million... – moment! – the 300 million of whom we do not know today how you, the government parties, want to bring them up, even though there is a signed paper in which the head of state of Carinthia was probably not completely indifferent. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Stability Pact!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] He is a member of the national conference, and this is an agreement between the federal, state and local authorities. But I don't care; we haven't been there. Stand firm, we need a financial balance, and it is obvious that you have never believed in us; what have we been “skinned” for when we have said that! –: Yes, there is inefficiency, and the efficiency of health care, especially in the healthcare sector, can still be improved, but it will take years for it to work. In the short term, you will not come around any form of additional financing. – Yes, again, the representatives of the modern “slavery”! But now you've come to believe that you really need 300 million for health insurance and hospitals in the short term. However, I must conclude one thing, Mr Molterer and Mr Grasser, Minister of Finance: You must have missed these 300 million already three weeks ago. So three weeks ago, the Federal Budget was apparently supported by €500 million: 200 million countries and municipalities, 300 million health care. – Let us hope that this trend will not continue. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] There will still be enough opportunities to discuss the way in which the structure, the composition of these €305 million. The Greens also believe that increasing the recipe fees is the wrong way. We also do not think that the increase in this so-called hospital contribution is correct for those who are in the hospital, who are anyway ill. But purely fiscally speaking, this is the smallest amount of about 15 million you estimate, and the 50 million of the recipe fee – a total of 65 million. It cannot be a great art to bring it in in another way. One in this sense, I believe, is reasonable and, above all, explainable, Mr Molterer – you must, of course, try to explain this to the people and not to treat them as slaves – and further increase in the maximum basis of health insurance would, at least, be far better than the increase in prescription fees – which, by the way, not only fall at the expense of those people or particularly meet those who have particularly low incomes: Even if they have average income, but are chronically ill, have a difficult case in the family, they can do it properly! I know this from my own experience. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Now to the financial compensation, Minister of Finance. [[Abg. Rädler: Where is the solution?]] I wasn't there, and... [[Call the ÖVP: Where is the solution now? Where's the message? Where is your solution?]] You didn't get it? - Aha. Okay! [[Call the ÖVP:Solution!]] I note that the government parties too now believe that €300 million of additional funding is needed in the short term. Three weeks ago, you kept this to us. Three weeks ago, we discussed the budget, and you haven't said anything about it. But I note that our forecast – and we have always said: yes, the efficiency needs to be increased, but in the short term it will not go without additional measures – is now also the position of the EIA. – I don't know what position the FPÖ is. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would just like to make a mocking comment on the financial compensation, Mr Finanzminister. I already understand – and that was to be expected – that you will have to make concessions and make concessions to the countries and especially to the municipalities. [[Abg. You don't believe this! What... the greens for the communities? - Nothing!]] But what do the countries actually give to the Federation? – This has not really become clear to me from the pact, which is now a negotiation result, which also corresponds to the interests of the federal government. [[Abg. May. Molterer:... you didn't understand!]] Mr Molterer, I am brief now, because I do not like it: to caricade everything afterwards. But if I read here that in the Rehabilitation Agreement – which should probably be marked by quotations; here it is without quotations – the health and social insurance institutions propose to the countries, cities and municipalities the increase in the hospital cost contribution and the increase in health insurance contributions, then I have to say: But the Federation is still responsible for this, isn't it? Have there been lengthy negotiations ahead of who is proposing something now, so to speak, so to speak, to spread the unpleasant burden on all shoulders – and have you not predicted that the Federal SPÖ will then jump? – That’s very strange. [[Abg. May. Molterer: She jumped off! That's where you've really diagnosed! The SPÖ jumped!]] And how can this be understood: Should there not be any support by these three parties – meaning ÖVP, FPÖ and SPÖ – – – at present there is no such – this package does not come about – namely the overall package!? – That doesn’t happen anyway: If the SPÖ does not fall, then the FPÖ must fall, or the ÖVP must collapse, or all three. – Something has to happen in order to achieve this overall package. Please inform us in good time and tell us if this will create additional burdens for the federal government. Finally, because I'm so tired of it, I'm making a conciliatory remark: This pact is also unprejudicial – that is not a fishing quote now, but it is actually set out in this paper – a puncture by Mrs. Rauch-Kallat. I don't know how much of it will be just extra bureaucracy, but everything's not bad what's inside. It's very interesting things! [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. May. Molterer.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: “It’s not bad! ” – Tell me you like it! Just say, it's good!]] Everything that has to do with quality control, with documentation, with the statistical requirements that will at all make it possible to plan properly in the hospital area, is good, and this may cost a bit. Yes! And you have to explain this to the people too! It cannot explain the opposition parties or the Greens alone to the people: Watch out, good things happen, and they also have to cost something, and someone has to pay it! [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: This is once again a recognition!]] - Is that what we're supposed to do? And you're coming with the "slavery" lab that's why? - Please! Please! - See you next time! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e3420	Mr Scheibner is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e3438	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Mr. Volksanwälte! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! One should not forget – my three previous speakers seem to have done so – that we are discussing, among other things, the Supreme Institutions today and that the representatives of the institutions of Parliament are also participants in this discussion here today. But first of all I would like to thank you, Professor Van der Bellen, for the lecture, for the nice chatter. I am always really impressed – less of the content of the speeches, but more of the way in which time can be allowed to pass, and in this case there can be debates. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] I am really very, very grateful to you, Professor Van der Bellen, for the knowledge of an economic professor that the comparisons in deficit and debt can always only be achieved in absolute terms. [[Mr Brosz and Mr Van der Bellen.]] You did that as a comparison. They have said it is the highest debt, it is the highest deficit that this Minister of Finance has to answer, and have brought the absolute figures. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] So it doesn't matter if someone, I don't know, has 50 000 €, 100 000 € in debt, whether he earns 1 000 € per month or 5 000 €: It's just the absolute numbers! [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Mr. Scheibner, you didn't watch!]] – Thank you, Mr Wirtschaftsprofessor Van der Bellen, for this insight you brought us here today. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] So, Mr Finance Minister, we really have a problem, because the ratios of the deficit – the deficit in terms of gross domestic product, as measured by the general incomes of the state and the economic power of the state – do not apply, but only the absolute figures. Ladies and gentlemen! But with that, I think, we can already let it be used. Professor Van der Bellen, in all friendship, I would like to experience one more time and then listen to the comments that are always very friendly with you: that you go out here once and say nothing for five minutes – just stand here and say nothing. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: I do!]] Please do it once! I'm sure the comments will be: A perfect analysis of the languagelessness of today's society by Professor Van der Bellen. – That will probably be the comments the next day. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals and with representatives of the ÖVP.]] But so that Mr Gusenbauer, who has continued one thing:... – Yes, my colleague, I remember your speech about yesterday. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oberhaidinger.]] That's where I stood every comparison! You were the first speaker yesterday, I remember. But let us now go to Klubobmann Gusenbauer and also to your debate yesterday, to the urgent question to the Minister of Finance. There is also a lot of interesting. It is always said that the Minister of Finance has “the highest deficit” to answer – and in a approach of honesty one says in parentheses: in the era Grasser. And then we say – for example, colleague Cap yesterday – that he has the highest debt to answer. – Yes, of course, but one does not say how the growth has developed in relation to the era of the socialist or social democratic finance ministers, ladies and gentlemen! That's the real numbers! I do not want to bring the comparisons with your era for long now, but you have really brought it together, in times of record economic growth, to bring together other records, namely deficit, unemployment, and to increase debt in a massive way – despite record economic growth, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Record economic growth? Record unemployment? – So, such a...!]] We went a different way here. But they are now criticizing us for investing in the infrastructure, ladies and gentlemen, in research and development at the beginning – and we all hope that it will come so far. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Where? Where?]] Never before has so much been invested in research and development, i.e. in the future of the country and the population! [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: That's not true!]] You don't want to recognize everything. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: That's just wrong!]] We invest in the economy, in the economic location of Austria, with the downturn of economic taxes, ladies and gentlemen, which you first demanded and now criticised. I don't understand you don't admit that. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Because it's wrong!]] This was important, ladies and gentlemen, especially in the course of the EU enlargement, where it was about staying competitive in relation to the new member countries in Europe. We have said – and you have once criticized this high tax and tax rate – that: Yes, we finally have the flexibility and the margin to implement the greatest tax relief in the Second Republic for the population after the restructuring of the state budget. You do not want to recognize everything – but that is clear, because you voted against all these positive measures: You voted against the tax relief, you voted against the guarantee of the Austrian economic location, you voted against our family policy initiatives in recent years, such as the childcare allowance. It is likely that your family experts will come out again and say that we are gnawing the women with the childcare allowance, we are keeping them away from the labour market. – No, ladies and gentlemen, but you want to force them into the labour market! [[Mr Oellinger, Mr Restes-Hinterseer and Mr Binder.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] This is your policy, ladies and gentlemen. On the other hand, we want to give women, families a right to vote, whether they want to stay with the children or not. This is the policy of the Federal Government: To give options and not to force women and families into the labour market for social reasons. – That is the difference, and we are very proud of this difference to you. [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Lentic.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Over €5 billion in family benefits in 2004: These are clear accents – clear accents for the families, for the population here in Austria. Because the health system has also been addressed here today, I say quite clearly: The methods of the past, as They always support them, too, are those that we say: We have a system, and it must not be shaken; and if this system can no longer be financed, then there is only one measure to correct that, namely to increase taxes and contributions – and not to have control over how these funds are used. Ladies and gentlemen! That – and I have already said that clearly and clearly – is a system of the past, and this system is and must be different for the future. And we are also in favour, and we also see that there are first good approaches to this, namely the reform package that Minister Rauch-Kallat has developed together with State Secretary Schweitzer, in which we set clear new accents – which may not be effective tomorrow and not over the day, but which will not only provide a financial relief for the health system in the future, but also set priorities for maintaining health: the focus on prevention. Of course, this is difficult to mediate when it comes to short-term measures or when you want to give nice Sunday speeches, but that should be our main focus: that we do not finance the disease, but that we receive health with precautions, with preventive measures. That must be at the top of every health package! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Secondly, there must be a review of the use of resources. I understand that, for example, the heads of state, no matter what couleur they belong to, say, of course, first and foremost: We want to maintain the system as it is! because no one likes to discuss whether we may not have too many single beds in the respective countries, because no one likes to discuss whether the fifth or sixth computer tomograph is really necessary and fully spent – or whether there is not only the reason that because the head of department A has one, the head of department B also wants one and that the head of state is so pleased to be invited to open and initiate these computer tomographs. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Discuss!]] [[Abg. The one from Waneck! The Waneck's computer tomograph! That's what we can talk about!]] Ladies and gentlemen, these are the debates that we must hold. I support the fact that, together with the countries, we will receive the funding of the health system. But that they only demand the money and are not willing to implement even unpleasant – at least inconvenient – reform measures, and the others, namely the Federation, then have the means to make it available, it will not play in the future, ladies and gentlemen. We want to have a common package for short-term financing, for medium-term financing, but above all also for a long-term guarantee of quality with the highest possible efficiency of the use of funds. This is a modern policy, as we do for the 21st century. For possible, but also for necessary, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I believe that this budget also sets priorities, as I have already said: Infrastructure, education, families, but also security. Mr Finanzminister – and I am saying this – I believe that we need to do more for internal security and for external security. There is no eye twinkling here, and here there is no adjustment of any security strategies to the budgets, but here there is only one principle: that everything needs to be done, which is necessary to guarantee the security of Austria and its citizens inward and outward. Lawn mower-like savings are absolutely missing in place here. But I assume that, as in the past, the tasks in this area can then be guaranteed. In any case, I believe that the necessary adjustments have been made with this 2005 budget, and the attempts of the opposition to find anything bad about it are still in the approach. Finally, and as announced, ladies and gentlemen, a few words on Parliament's institutions: I believe that we should all be able and able to thank the President of the Court of Auditors, but also the people's lawyers, as well as all of Parliament's staff, for the efficient work in the service of the People's Office, as well as in the service of control of the state and the service of the citizens, when it comes to optimal representation of citizens' concerns and being there wherever it is necessary to provide assistance. You have been awarded this in the past, and thank you very much from the People's Office, gentlemen – and also the Lady; I ask her to do this – in the People's Procuratorate! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But especially when we say thank you, it is also necessary to strengthen these institutions when it comes to discussing, for example, the competence of these institutions and the composition of these institutions in the Austrian Convention. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about the Court of Auditors, I do not want to be able to philosophise here at all about the distrust which some group brings to the Court of Auditors when it comes to discussing Court of Auditors reports in various committees. I believe that we should have full confidence that the Court of Auditors, wherever it examines, will review everything intensively, openly and objectively, and that we should discuss reports here, but not set up committee of inquiry. And we have to give the Court of Auditors the powers and the means which enable it to carry out this control in the future at the federal, regional and local level. As far as the People's Procuratorate is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, I say quite openly here, because we are also discussing this at the Convention, as follows: I don't think there's any restriction on a popular lawyer at all. In the past, the public prosecutorship was faced with a very strong rise in complaints – what, I think, does not have to do with a deterioration in the state of administration, but simply with the self-confidence of the citizen that different things, where one feels ill treated by public institutions, can no longer be liked. And the public prosecutorship has been very, very good and efficient with this rise in complaints. However, I believe that it is necessary, in the interests of the citizen's proximity, that the citizen who complains also has the opportunity to find direct access to the public prosecutor – and this would certainly be much more difficult to ensure when a reduction is made to a popular lawyer than it is at present. So increasing efficiency, maintaining competence and maintaining and strengthening the working capacity of these important institutions – this should be our task and task in the Constitutional Convention. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, once again: We stand for the direction of the 2005 budget, including the 2006 budget forecast. Here, the changes for the future of Austria are set: with a clear focus on future technologies, research, education, as well as health and social systems. We are used to that, and we will continue to endure, that is not a problem at all. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You refuse the information in the Financial Committee and in the Budget Committee!]] But you have to note that there are two parties here in this House who do more than comment on the design – and that will be so in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e3698	Mr Van der Bellen spoke on a point of order. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e3720	Mr President. Mr Scheibner claimed that I would have compared the Grasser budget in 2005 with the Edlinger budgets in 1998/1999 only in absolute terms, i.e. in billions of euros. [[Abg. Scheibner: I didn't say that!]] - That's wrong! I compared the budgets both in billions of euros and as a percentage of GDP and concluded that in billions of euros the deficit of the Grasser budget is higher than that of the Edlinger budget in 1998/1999, with the difference from 1998 to 1998 being steadily low. [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: You didn't mention any data!]] [[further calls to the ÖVP]] And I have pointed out that as a percentage of GDP, as a percentage of the social product, the Grasser deficit is at least lower than the Edlinger deficit in 1998/1999. Depending on how you calculate it, they are equally high, or Grasser with his deficit is slightly below. I said that. [[Abg. Neudeck: But you didn't say that at first!]] [[Abg. Steibl: This is a speech, not an actual correction!]] You didn't watch. As evidence, I offered you overview 7 of the budget speech, corrected for the financial compensatory negotiations. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e3811	Mr. Bundeskanzler, Dr. Schüssel, spoke from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e3829	Mr President. High house! Allow me to take a brief look at the European Council last week at the beginning of my speech, because this also has to do with the local and economic debate in Austria. We discussed three important issues at the European Council last week: Firstly, a decision was taken on the new Commission. The European Parliament has called for a change in the human composition and the tasks of the new Commission. José Manuel Barroso has taken this into account; he has proposed two new Commissioners from Latvia and Italy, and he has made a change of competence with László Kovács, the Hungarian Commissioner. I consider this decision to be correct, support it fully. I think it would be important, above all now, to get a new dedicated and strong Commission as soon as possible. I also know that the European Parliament or the important political groups see this as similar. I therefore hope that the second start will work and that we will soon have a European Commission capable of action. Secondly, We discussed intensively the Wim Kok report on the location discussion, the so-called mid-term review of the Lisbon strategy. I would like to expressly mention the contribution of the Austrian member – it was a purely ad-personam participation – Fritz Verzetnitsch. This paper, with the proposal to accept the challenge, contains some unheard-of interesting and, I believe, also far-reaching recommendations, with which we have dealt intensively, whereby we must say quite honestly: We are now far behind the goals we have set ourselves. On the one hand, this is due to the fact that many of the Commission's proposals have not been implemented, mainly aimed at the completion of the internal market, but also partly at the fact that the national implementation of this strategy has not really taken place. For this reason, some concrete proposals: implement the Services Directive, agreements on a European patent, attempts to develop a common research strategy, make national agents responsible in the governments, which will then jointly monitor the implementation and implementation of this site discussion in a Council, probably in the Competition Council. In general, some interesting recommendations have been made that I do not want to abstain from you, especially the warning of the internal challenge of ageing society. The Commission and the Wim-Kok report note that by 2040 the potential growth of the European Union could be halved from 2.5 to 1.25 percent. The cumulative effect of such a decline would be that per capita income for each individual European citizen was 20% lower than expected. As early as 2015, potential growth will fall practically to 1.5 percent. Therefore – and this has been made very clear in the discussion – the special focus is placed on the need for pension reforms, on increasing the early retirement age, on the employment opportunities, of course, especially for older workers, on lifelong learning, on promoting and demanding those looking for work. At the same time, however, real joint efforts are needed to create a national research strategy with a European Council, which also makes it concrete. It is interesting to note that all of these proposals are mainly carried by Austria and are also quite clearly in line with our own priorities. We have implemented the pension reform. We have clearly slendered the administration, we have set clear priorities specifically for education and research. I am proud that we have lived these priorities even in difficult economic times. The figures can be found in the budget documents. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The third major issue is the so-called Hague programme, which will still be intensive in our work. For the next five years, an overall programme for the creation of an area of internal freedom and security will be drawn up. These are very far-reaching measures that would have been unthinkable a few years ago, such as the creation of a European right of asylum, the creation of European standards for refugee accommodation, the creation of uniform procedures, readmission agreements, so that a country does not have to bear the burden by way of a fee. A European Refugee Fund is to be set up. The common protection of external borders is taken seriously. A common European Border Protection Agency, whose seat will still be decided, will start its work next year. There should be fraud-proof documents and cooperation between civil intelligence services, not just military ones. It is intended to be much more intensive in this area. EUROJUST and EUROPOL will be upgraded, cooperation against terrorism will be taken seriously, and, for us, the new European Union Human Rights Agency in Vienna will start its work as early as 2006. This is a programme that we absolutely want to support, which is in our interest, because in the end there is more security for our citizens. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Now to the budget. I would like to address a little bit of the debate that led the previous speakers in particular. I am very glad that we are not now discussing woodcuts, but are actually talking to each other in nuances and are also trying to work out the priorities. I'm taking up what Professor Van der Bellen said: We should not defy slavery – which is a tax quota or a government expenditure quota. That's perfectly clear, no one does. We are a country with a relatively high state ratio, with a relatively high tax rate, but – and please take this very seriously! – all previous speakers have at various times criticized that we have too high a tax rate, especially in those tax areas where international competition is very easy to consider: How are the location advantages in the region of Central Europe? How does it look in Eastern Europe, in South-East Europe or even in Asia? We all agree that we cannot lead a site competition through wage dumping. I can't, that's not desirable either. Well, I guess... [[Abg. Sburny: Neither by tax dumping!]] – No, but please excuse me, honourable Member, a 25 percent corporate tax rate if other countries have 10 or 19 percent, is really not to be called tax dumping. Let us at least agree on this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] On the contrary! I believe that the tax measures we put in place give a very decisive tax incentive and incentives. We feel it. We've had a total since 1. January, since we have jointly decided on the key points of the tax reform, 2 000 requests from all over the world from companies wishing to invest in Austria. Half of this is from Germany, where we have so far not been able to conclude this discussion positively, as we have done. Now I would like to say the following, Professor: If we take each other seriously, it must also be clear that one cannot say that the tax reform or the tax reduction is too low or that it comes too late, one should have done it not this year, but already a year earlier or two years earlier, but at the same time it stands here and speaks indictment of the “culpable Karli” and says: The deficit is too high. - Both of them can't work! That's intellectually not worthy of you, you know that too, so you need to smile. That is why, of course, we are holding this discussion, Professor. No question! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You are right – no one says that; these are advertising texts –: Of course, the upswing does not come by the discharge alone. That's clear. We live to 50 percent of the export of goods, of services, of tourism. Thank God it's booming. After all, we had 12 percent more exports to Germany in the first half of the year. We expect 7 or 8 percentage points more exports to the whole world for this year. That's a huge advantage. But, of course, this part of the upturn is not induced by the government alone, but I would like to point out that we have made some export efforts, with Martin Bartenstein working very well. Government members – which is sometimes called; however, I say this quite positively here – are traveling around the clock and everywhere in the world; for example, Vice-chanc Hubert Gorbach now in China or in other parts of the world, for: Nothing comes from itself! The export industry also demands support from us – and we give it to them, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is clear that tax relief and economic packages have growth effects. – Professor Van der Bellen, don't make it so easy to point out the stage 2005 only now, because you know very well that this is, so to speak, an overall work of art – and that includes the economic packages of the last two years. Not all the other measures, but very probably these two economic recovery packages and tax reform. If we had not put these two measures in place, we would have a deficit of not even half a percent next year, and in 2006 we would even have a surplus – and this despite the poor economy of previous years! If you don't use bright headlights, powders and stains, or on the other hand, you don't paint everything black – as has been done by parliamentarian Gusenbauer, for example – then you come to a relatively relaxed and reasonable picture of the Austrian economy and the Austrian society. We may not be as good as we all like to see each other, but overall we are not bad on the road either. In Germany, there is a budget deficit of almost 4 per cent, with quite different problems, reunification and so on, I already know; in France, there are also almost 4 per cent; Italy is far above the EU limit, as is Greece and Portugal. We in Austria are relatively good on the road, in fact almost all things. Now I bring a quote from someone who is totally unwarranted, who, by the way, has already harshly criticized us earlier, namely the International Monetary Fund, which wrote in August of this year: Austria is almost “the showcase for economic reforms”, so it is an example of economic reforms. Austria is rising from the European countries. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Quote: Achieving both: tax cuts and a reduction in the tax deficit! – And that, I believe, is not so bad when it confirms to us an objective international agency, an institution, the International Monetary Fund – and at the same time it says: Do not paralyze in your reform efforts! By the way: Göran Persson, the Swedish Prime Minister, said at an evening discussion in the European Council, which was very interesting: The most dangerous day in economic policy is the day when you have fully achieved the fiscal goals, because from that day on the dams begin to break again, the locks are opened! The most important decision in Sweden was, according to Persson, to draw the boundaries so closely in good time that future budgets can never exceed the permissible limits of debt. – I think that is a very wise sentence of the Swedish Prime Minister. Or think of the German Chancellor Gerhard Schröder, who spoke about the objective difficulties of a reform policy in established countries, with a high social level in which this is different from in Poland or Slovakia, in the so-called emerging countries. Gerhard Schröder spoke very honestly about how difficult it is, for example, to take out €25 billion from the Solidar funding system, about contributions, and put it into the personal responsibility of the patients and the insured. Think about it. Ladies and gentlemen, what that means! This is really not the cheap return carriage, according to the motto: Look at what they do and how good we are, what they do and what we have avoided!, but that is a need for an honest discussion, which is necessary in times like this, so that we can set the course in order to be just as successful in five or ten years as it is today. That's the real challenge! And that goes far beyond a possible party dispute. On the question of financial compensation. In reality, we are distributing €300 billion of taxes, revenue and financial flows in the health system justly through local authorities, hospitals, social security institutions and health insurance funds. And at all times of the Second Republic, it was so that, regardless of the party discussion, this was carried by opposition and government: A negotiating result has been achieved by the countries, the local authorities, the municipalities, the cities and the federal government. I say quite consciously: This is precious, because it is not natural, I know how it is in Switzerland, for example, because there are very difficult negotiations, as is the case in Germany. I also know how a financial compensation was carried out earlier in the Austro-Hungarian monarchy: a disaster! In reality, it would be a real treasure if we brought it together to keep these things out of the party dispute. If the local authorities agree on such a pact, it should also be implemented with the votes of the parties concerned, which are responsible in the local authorities. I am in favour of this pact, and I am also seeking your agreement here! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Allow me to present at least a few points, which were also mentioned in the discussion here by Dr Gusenbauer, such as the ÖIAG policy. I think it is very important that we already put the whole picture on the table, so to speak; therefore: The ÖIAG stands today, compared to earlier times – since I do not polish at all, because that is a success of its businesses – excellently there. Besides the VA-Tech, virtually all ÖIAG companies write black numbers, all of them write profits, the debts are reduced by three quarters, the ATX is today twice as high as in 2000 when we took over government responsibility. Therefore: In principle, all these questions are solvable! No one needs to be afraid that jobs in the companies concerned, as well as in other industrial and medium-sized enterprises, are at risk. On the contrary – and perhaps it has already spoken in public –: The upswing is thanks to God for a long time! As far as industry is concerned, we cannot and do not need to complain, the situation is relatively good – and we will monitor that this remains so and the framework conditions are set in such a way that this continues to work, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: This is quite a threat, Mr. Federal Chancellor!]] – Ah go, but no one is really afraid – except you! [[Abg. Neudeck: The Jarolim always has to say something when he gets smarter!]] Now to the administration, for which I am also responsible. In this context, I would like to thank the Court of Auditors and the public prosecutors because many of their initiatives and suggestions have been involved. In the last four years, we have really saved 14 000 posts, so not outsourced – outsourced another 12 000. And this saving has, of course, allowed for flexibility, so that we could bring in virtually all wage and salary negotiations in recent years. I would like to express my thanks to the Public Service Union and the staff representatives for having taken this into account in their work, in making the administration more slender and efficient, and for following many suggestions from the Court of Auditors and the People's Procuratorate, so that they could move very much with us. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] If you think about it, ladies and gentlemen: There has just been a small “cultural revolution” in the past two, three years: The e-law, the e-government is implemented today. The ELAK, the electronic act, exists in all ministries. We have also achieved the implementation of a new staffing and care system in all ministries from 2005 onwards. The accounting agency has begun its work; it will be in office from January 2005 onwards. So we have invested enormously in this area, and I believe that this is absolutely important for the modern administration and also for the motivation of the employees in the Federal Service. As far as the Federal Chancellor's Office's budget is concerned, I would particularly like to thank State Secretary Morak and, of course, the Minister for Finance. In that case, he is the „Förderungs-Karli“ – thanks many times! The art budget increases by 6 percent next year, by 7 percent in the next year. With regard to sports budget, I would like to thank the “Förderungs-Karli” on the other hand, Karl Schweitzer, who has been very committed to this area. The total amount of sports budget increases by 5 percent, but the real throw that we have succeeded in this – in turn: thank you, Karl-Heinz – is that for the special sports promotion we have the budget from 36 million to 40 million € – at least! – have raised, but with the 3-percent rule, which is not covered, will probably reach much more than €40 million next year. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This is a quantum leap for the athletes – I say quite clearly here – and an unwarranted witness, not quite unknown to you Franz Löschnak, has actually shown it to the public, he has thanked Karl Schweitzer and us for having succeeded. The last point – I would like to say this one sentence – is: I have asked the Carinthian parties represented in the state government in writing and asked the head of state Haider that we might resume the consensus conference as soon as possible to resolve the local panel question. I wouldn't have made it public, but it's been announced from Carinthia, so I don't want to hide it to the House either. I have taken such an initiative, and I am now waiting for a proposal for an appointment. We will probably start with the Home Associations at the beginning of January and with the Slovenian organisations and, of course, with the parliamentary parties in the same composition as two years ago after appropriate preparation. I very much hope he succeeds. Otherwise, I am looking forward to this discussion today and I very much hope that you will ultimately support our budget with your voice.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e3975	Mr Dr. Dr. spoke in favour of an actual correction. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e3996	Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of his speech on the Wim-Kok report, the Federal Chancellor claimed that this report on the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy would include the recommendation to implement the Services Directive as proposed by the EU Commission. – This fact claim, Mr Bundeskanzler, is wrong! Fritz Vergestnitsch, apostrophic of you, could never have accepted such a recommendation! It is true that this report contains the recommendation to achieve a harmonisation that allows for the liberalisation of services, but not at the price of thousands of jobs and thousands of potentially threatened small businesses. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. May. Molterer]] That makes a difference!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e4049	Next item is the report by Mr Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e4067	High house! Mr. Federal Chancellor, you did in your speech the way you would prevent anyone from finally agreeing with your coalition partner on a health package and a financial compensation. Please, there's the problem! I've been registered with surprise today: The more chaotic the state of this federal government is, as can be seen from the example of the discussion on the health package, the more blatant is the mood of the two government groups here in the House. I wonder, What's the reason? How can you develop this mood, although the government is in the state that it has not agreed again must have moved again? Only the next Council of Ministers will try to reach agreement. [[Abg. Scheibner: Where are you? One time and not at the same time! Where are you?]] Because in his usual sordid, unkelling voice, Mr. Bundeskanzler is trying to formally bring soothing elements into the discussion, unlike the Clubobmann Molterer, I would like to say: The Wim-Kok report with the unachieved Lisbon objectives contains nothing reassuring! It is simply and simply said that the European Union's prosperity societies are in themselves at structural risk that the objectives of employment and growth have not been achieved. So there is strong criticism of the policies of national governments and also of the European Union. It must be concluded, however, that the Austrian Federal Government is also meant to do so. For a long time, it has refused to stand up for the European Union's action on growth and employment policy. This has been done – and this is already an advance for the year of commemoration, which is next year – by the German Chancellor Vranitzky, who has made sure that this was taken up as a political component of the European Union at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Because more and more historical elements are involved in the discussions – and it is to be said that the Klubobmann Molterer, actually Klubanimateur, always comes out here in the difficult, depressive phases of his club and how a sect leader tries to bring his club back to the foreman in the mood; the willingness to do so still seems to be present – and because here a discussion on the question of “guilt-rudi” or “guilt-Karli” was held, I would like to remind you, Mr Bundeskanzler, only one thing: They have actually been in the government since 1989. They know that in all governments – as in the current government – the principle of unanimity prevails. If we're already making a history consideration here, we're doing it using an arithmetic formula: “Schulden-Rudi” plus “Bulden-Karli” is “Bulden-Wolfi”, because you have in fact contributed to all the policies since 1989 and bear the responsibility for them. [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Grasser.]] If Mr. Grasser – who has just spoken from the government bank – again, just as yesterday, 30 years of debt policy is being suffocated, I have to ask: [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: Of course!]] What do you say? Is that what you're talking about, Mr. Bundeskanzler? He's teasing you with that, 'cause you've been in the government since 1989. There would be, politically speaking, almost a fatherly roof, because he can't do that at all, or it can't be that he can't be so tired as a Minister of Finance and can say all that, because that's what destroys the historical image you want to build here! [[Rejoicing at the SPÖ]] Your story is quite simple: There was Federal Chancellor Klaus, and then, after some time, already came a bowl to the government, with some government partner he can no longer remember. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Then there was black and blue, but to become blue You can't remember soon. And the rest is Wolfgang Schüssel. That's how history will be! [[Abg. Rädler: You already forgot the Kreisky!]] You can then, if it suits you, not steal away from responsibility and wipe out of history! You have to note that under 30 years of Social Democratic Chancellorship huge progress has been made in the field of education, school, university, social, infrastructure, health care. It's always going to be under the table! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: I can remember the pension letter from Vranitzky too!]] Why not make yourself and say that you had the pleasure of personally participating in this policy for 15, 16 years? Instead, you allow the Minister of Finance Grasser to declare these 30 years as days and years of darkness each time he speaks here. That's how next year's commemorative year will take place? So it's supposed to be: that you look at what you like, and only the ÖVP is almost the story of Austria and the rest didn't exist? We won't let that happen! I can tell you that now. That will not be allowed to happen to the public either! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I have to tell you: That won't help you! That doesn't help you anyway! Yesterday, Mr. Grasser, the Minister of Finance, said – and this is probably what continues today: It is not in absolute debt that you should evaluate me, but in quotas and percentages! [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Grasser.]] You do not pay back in quotas and percentages, but the absolute debt you have to repay, Minister of Finance! Don't talk like that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[New interim remark by Federal Minister Mag. Grasser.]] The “Professor” Schüssel, who here taught Professor Van der Bellen – the difference being that Van der Bellen is really an economic professor, what you need to add – let all of this happen from the government bank. [[Call to the ÖVP: But no one believes that!]] So it happens with his consent. He also allows how Klubobmann Molterer deals with the 30 years of history, of which 15, 16, 17 years was part of the ÖVP. He does this as if he had a blackout there. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I say: This was a political blackout because it provides the role distribution: the sonorous uncle, sometimes professorial, soothing, with the world on you and you, dazzling histories, where he was mostly involved, and then the evilweight in the clubmann role, which is a little more brutal and radical in the history. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Staatsmann!]] That's how we won't be able to start the commemorative year! You have to learn – that's what you need to learn! – also make criticism! Maybe you'll be in opposition once. Don't sit there so high! That can be. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] You can meet the revenge of the voters once. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You should think about minority rights, when there will finally be a minority right to set up committee of inquiry! You should also think about your statement that you want to reduce the lawyers from three to one! It was added in parentheses: But the one is from the ÖVP. This is the way of thinking you have permanently, namely to divide the Republic into different black castls: the ÖAAB castl the Chamber of Commerce, the Industrial Association Castl, the Landes-Kastl, into all the castls you have. [[Abg. That's how you think!]] [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] Something else really doesn't happen to you. The Strasser Kastl is still here. This currently consists of 30 000 castles, of which 12 000 are to be re-submitted and re-occupied. He does not make a security policy, Mr. Klubobmann Scheibner, who does not make a reform policy in the interior, but he simply sits in the department “ÖVP post crew”, second floor, door sign “Strasser”. And that's what's going on, Zack! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neugebauer.]] Ah, the Lord Neugebauer knows what I am saying: public service, ÖVP, that we know each other out, that we sit there, that the belly becomes bigger and bigger! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Neugebauer.]] You owe 30 years of Social Democratic Chancellorship to being able to sit there in the back of the government bank so pleasantly. [[Strong ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] That's the truth! We have created the basis in this country! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] Now let me tell you something, you country representatives: Close 350 post offices, close Gendarmerieposten, thinn the countries and valleys, where you then appeal to Austrian patriotism at the election events. – We know your Austrian patriotism: Get out with the post offices! Get out of the schools! Get away with the Gendarmerie! Then only the ÖVP-Obmann remains there. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That's your concept you have! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This kind of Austrian patriotism is not our patriotism! You can really write that over your ears! Honestly! [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] Don't be angry with me. I almost interrupted by your calls. Don't forget to write in peace – this applies to you if you wanted to forget it politically –: [[towards the freedom of movement]] From 1989 to 1995, Dr. Schüssel was Minister of Economic Affairs, from 1995 to 2000 Deputy Chancellor and Foreign Minister and from 2000 onwards he was finally – his youth dream was fulfilled – German Chancellor, with you. But she will soon forget! You need to hear a little more now, because you will soon be unable to spell out ‘FPÖ’. I'll tell you! [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: I'm not worried!]] We know that. If we ask them and tell them to spell “SPÖ”!, they can’t remember either. [[pointing towards ÖVP]] I'm just telling you this to be safe. [[towards the freedom of movement]] So nice to write: Since 1989, Schüssel has been a member of a Federal Government. Mr Grasser, you should change your future speeches a little from now on. [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Grasser.]] It's no longer up to you to keep talking about these 30 years as you did yesterday. There you were mentally still in the old FPÖ, in the FPÖ of the time when it was in the opposition. You also need to rewind a little bit, change the chip. That's not how it's going anymore! I am therefore telling you – and this is the right time to discuss it – that: We will increase our sensitivity on the issues of democracy and on the issues of dealing with Parliament! To the latter, I would like to give an example: It says that there is an initiative of the three Federal Council fractions for the health package and for the financial compensation – as if there were no fourth party in the Federal Council! Professor Van der Bellen, I'm just saying it in terms of the black/green philosophy. Just for memory: fourth party green! Then we'll send the package over, and we'll say, Thank you, at last, the package is there! We're not going to change that! These packages are “patent cops”, they are taken as they are, and immediately implemented in the Federal Council. That's what it says: Cheers, cheers. This is where the Molterer is responsible, that is the uncritical jubilant speaker who will always vote out here to rejoice. You have to practice this in the club. You can't tell me this is spontaneous. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] I claim: They meet an hour before the plenary sessions and cheer up. This is really the case with the Clubobmann and Klubanimaeur Molterer! That's how you organized it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] So, as has been said, we will be very sensitive to the issues of dealing with Parliament, dealing with democracy and, of course, also dealing with the opposition. We will be even more sensitive next year. I'll tell you: This cuddly perspective you have there, your plan to cuddle one another, and otherwise there won't be anyone there. Become with us You don't cuddle anyway, because we won't cuddle with you. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] But I can tell you one already: What we're going to do is: We will bring ourselves into history, and there everyone, everyone, has his place! [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Hornek.]] Because you are laughing like that, I can tell you – and with these words I would also like to close my remarks: I know a country, east of us – brr!, I don't want to call it – that did in 1920, 1930: [[Abg. Hornek: That was the land with the homeland!]] Those who have lost the political debate have been rehearsed in the photos, there has suddenly been the missing one, the missing one and the missing one. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That's going to be You can't do it – not with us, not with this country. She didn't deserve Austria! Believe me.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e4455	Next item is the report by Mrs Dr. Baumgartner-Gabitzer. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e4473	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! The gentlemen of the government and the representatives of Parliament's institutions! High house! Now Mr Cap, deputy clubman, has once again shown us how to consume ten minutes of his speaking time without bringing content without saying anything in terms of content. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Managing Director Clubobmann!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Once again he managed to play a wonderful cabaret for us here. Just, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen: The time available here is too bad for us to deal with a serious issue, we also want to deal with the reforms in terms of the Federal Government's budget. That's why we're here – and actually not in the theater. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] I am very surprised by the contributions made by the opposition – I now take care of Mr Cap – because I have hardly been able to recognize any criticism of content, either from Mr Gusenbauer or from Professor Van der Bellen. [[Call at the SPÖ: Then you have to listen better!]] The only thing you have repeatedly complained about here is the deficit you said it was the highest deficit in absolute numbers. It doesn't get any more right, even if you say it so often. It is not about the deficit in absolute terms, but it is about, as Professor Van der Bellen has gratefully mentioned in his speech, how the percentage distribution looks like the percentage of the outlook. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer]] Mr Cap always ignores this, but that won't help him either. The fact that this budget, which we are supposed to decide today and which is also supported by our group, is a good budget – and one of the objectives of this federal government was to cut down the budget deficit – is confirmed by a wide variety of positions, not by paid government propaganda, but by international bodies, such as the International Monetary Fund, which the Federal Chancellor has already quoted today, and also by Austrian budget experts. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I refer here to the highly valued and long-known budget expert Lehner, formerly at the Wifo, who, as in today’s press release, referred to the question of the nickname “Bulden-Karli” – I quote – as follows: “I don’t think these nicknames are appropriate. Grasser has set the course in such a way that the re-indebtedness decreases in the long term. The average deficit ratio of its era has so far been significantly below that of the years 1970 to 1999.” – Quote. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Then why does she rise?]] It is known that in 2000 responsibility for the budget was assumed by Minister Grasser and Federal Chancellor Schüssel. So don't worry, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, we are on the right path! [[Abg. Silhavy: But only you believe that!]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: (the sitting room leaving) I don't listen to this nonsense any longer!]] Mrs Colleague, it is not an easy way, as you yourself know, your accusation went in this direction. Mr Gusenbauer expressed concern about what will be before the next election and said that we will make promises before the next election and that we will have to explain why this is not the case. We have already shown that we are doing so in very many steps of reform. For example, I call the 2003 pension reform, the pension harmonisation which is now under consideration, the tax reform, the higher education reform and, as one of the next steps, the target of reducing the tax rate to 40 percent in 2010; Reforms, which are major and important steps in an Austria that must exist as a small, open economy in international competition. In international rankings, Austria is cutting God better and better. The opposition doesn't care, I understand, because it's not her job. We are happy for our country and also as a confirmation of our policy. We thus create scope again, that is, room for the next generations, and thus ensure that these are not imposed too many burdens. Let me say a few words about the Federal Chancellery chapter and those chapters that are currently being negotiated. It is very clear that reductions have been made in the expenditure items of the Federal Chancellor's Office. For example, it was saved at the staff, but it was used there in addition money, where – and I think this is a very important focus – it is about operating resources. One is sport, and the other is art. The funds for these two areas have been increased, and these additional resources will be able to use State Secretary Morak and State Secretary Swiss accordingly. I would like to express my thanks to the Supreme Institutions for their work. We always maintain good cooperation in Parliament. We also very much appreciate the discussion of the reports and believe that the budget for the Supreme Institutions, as it is available and will be decided at the end of the session, is a good thing so that we can find out and do this important work accordingly. We have shown in recent years that we have gone the right way. Austria is one of the best economic and labour locations. We have a higher growth than the average in the euro area, we have half the unemployment rate and lower inflation than the average, and we also have a lower net deficit than the average. I think this budget shows that we must continue the path of fiscal consolidation, which began in 2000, which has enabled us to create a margin. In the meantime, even though we have to take up a slightly stronger increase in the deficit by means of the tax reform, which has been properly put in place in time, it will be shown in the next few years that the right path has been taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e4600	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e4618	Mr President. Gentlemen on the Government Bank, including representatives of the Supreme Institutions! At 10 minutes you can be very difficult if you want to say a lot. I'm trying to get you a little closer to what I'm concerned about. I have been here in the house for a long time, and I can say that some of us regret that the debate in Parliament has become a bit sharper. I mean, that's his cause. I have had a brief discussion with Mr Khol yesterday about my use of the term “surveillance” – custody here in the house, custody in the debate, arguments and, above all, I think, also custody in the way that a modern Parliament is no longer worthy of. [[Call the ÖVP:Frequent!]] I shall now try to address this issue with a few examples and replication. First of all, the budget debate. It cannot be contradicted that Klubobmann Van der Bellen is simply put here, that he would not have said anything he would have invented the creative silence at all. [[Abg. Eßl: What did he say?]] [[Abg. Gaál: This is a cowardice!]] I find this really immense, especially against the background that we really have someone who hardly says anything in the matter, rather the opposite of what really is, but with a monkey machine and monkey effort – apologise! – at consultants and PR specialists, the foglighter is leaving and all possible people explain everything – and the whole thing comes into the house as a so-called budget speech! No, thank you! The comparison makes us really sure in this case! – Yes, those are some of your sayings, very true! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Grasser.]] Exceptionally, they fit once. In the matter: We have put three arguments right at the beginning and as a replica on your budget speech, Mr Finanzminister. Rise through discharge – completely wrong! The deficit is not primarily linked to tax reduction, and – I do not want to repeat this now with this painful naming – I have to note that the Federal Chancellor has essentially allowed the chance to go about it or to replicate it. Instead, he did not let himself be taken to the point of putting the economic packages into play, which must be calculated together. - Yeah, you can do it, just: You should also keep an eye on your actions in those economic packages at the time! It was only one thing that deserved this name, but essentially these were other economic policies – if you want to be kind – measures. There is simply no serious debate in the debate! This deficit is only to a small, to a small extent induced by tax cuts. That must be done. Just take note! I am excited whether the Minister of Finance is going to do so at last. [[Call the Greens: He just left!]] – Don't do anything! I do not want to continue spreading here and I am allowed to refer to my different personal opinion in relation to my arguments in the matter – because I have mentioned it before. Upturn through discharge. . I think this is a big problem, because, like the German government's zero deficit campaign, there is a very large amount of money threatening such a thing as the intention of making the unintentional intention to do popular damnation. I can only call it that! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Controller: What are we doing?]] It has no economic, economic sense at all, as you argue here! And my fear is: There is another threat of an advertising campaign that will cancel off the central slogan of the Minister of Finance's budget speech. That wouldn't be new! Resurrected by discharge – a total nonsense! I'm just telling you: Don't throw money out again to bring it to people! The last point: the famous debts, together with downstream first names. – You can say a lot about absolute and relative numbers here. In particular, it is the relative figures that you can put a lot into relation. I'm making you an offer now: We are superfluous in this debate, from each side. We expect, as far as the real responsibility is concerned, once after all, who in the Federal Government's circle with its decisions there – there already is unanimity, so the responsibility is perfectly clear – this title deserves – namely debt and then first name, or what you want to hold – and who here in the house, in Parliament. I have the terrible suspicion that it is actually right, what has sometimes been said here, namely that the oblivion on the part of the ÖVP is particularly strong. I cannot offer to take bets in Parliament, but I can only give my prognosis: There will be no one less than the prominent member of the Economic Federation Günter Stummvoll, who is here the biggest debt – and get into it! – to be held responsible, and on the government bank – he is not here either –: Who if not? It would be interesting to finally cut this off and get in touch with it. There are a few relative numbers, but there are also a few absolute numbers. And yesterday, when people's fairness was demanded: I will, in each case, pay off this debt responsibility with something similar to that of the consumer price index, i.e. with the GDP deflator, so that the accusation that the 1990 debt would be different would not be fairly weighted compared to the present ones. Then we will count on this, present it here and, by the way, transmit it to the economic editors – and then we do not want to hear anything more about it in here. This is so embarrassing and unscrupulous in the matter – and also a kind of custody in the debate! We've got enough of that. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We have enough of it, especially in view of the background that you have indeed driven a campaign with the motto “No new debt!”, “Less taxes, more for life!” We have shown you yesterday that this is only true for a small part of the population. And those who need it most don't have it. Pull this campaign back! At least then, you will do something to ensure that the damage remains as low as possible for the taxpayer. I would now like to focus briefly on the question of financial legislation. This is where the financial compensation has been strengthened. I promised you yesterday to look into what ex-Collegine Cordula Frieser has said here, also on the subject of custody. But it's even more dramatic than I told you yesterday. In connection with the illness of Members of Parliament and politicians, it has meant specifically for members of the government that it is one of the biggest problems that one has to agree everywhere, although one has a different opinion, and especially since we are in the financial legislation – and this is true again to you – especially in this area the proposals of the House would hardly have to be accepted counter-proposals. [[Abg. Bucher:... proposals? Where?]] This is simply unstinting, unstopping and making it sick for Members of their group. I do not think that this communication is a small one! It is a heavy indication of how laws are made here. You should take this to heart! But we do not only have the legislative powers here, but also in the field of control conservation trends. I would like to make a skewer here, a cut behind the word "storage", and first of all I would like to welcome not only the President of the Court of Auditors, but also to thank him and his staff for the work being done here on a regular basis, as well as the other Supreme Institutions. I am also saying this because we have had a strong debate on who is to become it at all. Let's take it easy, let's remember! I can assure you that we have found a working base. We have already discussed the agenda on the part of Parliament, but above all on the part of the President's project, and the Committee on the possibility of the current debate was also given the opportunity for the President to present his programme in the Committee very carefully. I do not think this is unthinkable, because I also want to show that we are trying to make our contribution to the custody. But now on the more unloving issues in this matter. Let us remain with the Court of Auditors and with the question of how to deliberately turn around again and again. On the one hand, the Committee of Inquiry is prevented and on the other hand, the Court of Auditors is informed that this is not an investigation committee. I'll bring the word “crowd ” again. I am now referring, not to the contents of the raw report, but to another point in the raw report, namely, to the question of the way in which the Court of Auditors process and work. It says – and I am going to quote it exactly at some point in time so that you can get back to the fact that even the chairman of the committee is already quoting from the raw report; and this will be a useful exercise because there is a situation in it – that the Court of Auditors has not been able to examine with its usual working methods at all! Why? – Because for months the paper was refused! Because, as a result, evidences have come that do not fit together! That alone – if this is done to me – must be enough reason to represent this committee of inquiry and not to let yourself be comforted by you to a committee of the Court of Auditors, in which Seiel will not be invited again, because you prevent it by your majority and perhaps because he is no longer sustainable, was sent to pension before. [[Abg. Dr. Baumgartner-Gabitzer: That's no reason!]] But that's exactly what hinders the investigation here! It's a circle you're opening up there. That's easy! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But you are suing me for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I would like to take the opportunity – because I think all this is proposed – to say just one sentence: No one's been prevented from talking! And there are regular representatives of the government groups on the list of speakers, even now. I think all of this is proposed. [[Abg. Hornek: You abuse the Rules of Procedure, Mr Kogler!]] We interpret the Rules of Procedure in the same way as all the committees, including the Court of Auditors, have been working for 20 or 30 years. [[Abg. Hornek: You misuse the Rules of Procedure! And that makes you unbelievable and not...!]] Come now So you and you are constructing something just because you want to refuse the investigation. This concludes with events that have looked so like preventing members of the ÖVP from thinking again if it would not be useful to load Mr Grasser. [[Abg. Hornek: The minister was in committee twice! You abuse the Rules of Procedure!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Prince.]] I've seen it myself! That was the reason, and not because I did not have any vote results. We have not even voted if you remember correctly! Your argumentation is in the circle! You have to answer that the biggest billion deal in history cannot be properly checked here! It was Mr Scheibner, who pointed out at the “press hour” on Sunday that at the end of this procurement process – and this is important to me – it looked so that with the promise and the ultimately mutual intervention – let us first leave the Federal Chancellor outside, because he is not there – at least the Minister of Finance has an additional burden of at least € 1 billion, expected to be 30 years. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is nothing new!]] More load! So this is not about interception hunters – yes or no! That's the type choice. And the other type would have been just as permissible. You can also read this from the Court of Auditors' report. And since it should not be possible for the Minister of Finance of the Republic, who has said for half a year that the thing is not manageable, to be questioned by the Committee on the Court of Auditors because you are preventing it by your majority? Go inside! That's not reasonable! You won't keep that up. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] You're putting pressure on your own representatives! I've experienced this myself, there are some of you who want to discuss; I'm not going to mention it by name now. [[Abg. Hornek: This is the untruth!]] But I'm sure you're putting pressure on your representatives in your own club! [[Abg. Dr. Baumgartner-Gabitzer: There's no such thing as that!]] [[Abg. Hornek: Naughty!]] And I'm not gonna watch that, I can assure you! We make our contribution to the custody! That's not just my opinion. For example, I should like to remind you of a book that has now been published by a Dutch journalist who has accepted Stronach, but above all the relations of Mr Finanzminister in this confusion. [[Abg. Hornek: A journalist?]] It devotes a chapter to the procurement of these Eurofighters and assumes that it is plausible to describe it as scandalous that the Minister of Finance has finally intervened that the most expensive device is obtained by far. [[Abg. Hornek: (in President of the Court of Auditors Dr. Moser significant) You do not believe in Mr. President, but a journalist?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Baumgartner-Gabitzer.]] You don't want to do that, and you're trying to prevent this kind of reconnaissance. But we will also come to this collection of quotations, and then you will miss out on the further calls. [[Abg. Hornek: You won't be able to prevent that!]] It has been reserved for Mr. Finanzminister – also in other contexts, so it fits so wonderfully in with the Court of Auditors – for example – Mr Pilz mentioned it yesterday – to make the appointment of the Supervisory Boards for the ÖIAG with a "clean" advisory agreement, the "friends of the Princehorn" have come out. The Court of Auditors has largely criticised this process, namely the award procedure, the procedure of the responsible consulting firm. And then, Mr Federal Minister, go here and order another opinion to reject Chapter 8.1, including 13.2 of the Court of Auditors' report in question! I think this is a scandal. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] You have awarded a series of consulting contracts to house your own wastefulness and nepotism here. And if the Court of Auditors comes up with the slender, give you another consultation agreement! [[Mr Hornek and Mr Baumgartner-Gabitzer.]] I can conclude by saying that President Fiedler said that: We can immediately abolish the Court of Auditors and hand over this document to his successor, Mr Moser. I would be interested on occasion in how he qualified this process. Don't keep calling so nervous in between. [[Abg. Hornek: No human being is nervous!]] You'd rather take care of how you work here, because you should also have a conscience you're committed to.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e4986	The next speaker was Mr Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e5006	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. Volksanwälte! Only one sentence to Mr Kogler: Your scandalous possession does not make the accusations more correct! You should hold that once. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It has all been properly decided, properly examined in connection with the Eurofighter, and it is properly implemented. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: The Haider doesn't see that!]] This is a fact, ladies and gentlemen, and it leaves no room for speculation! [[New congratulations to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr Cap, your speech was, like yesterday's, very amusing again. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is not natural!]] We are always very amused about your contributions here in the Hohe Haus, so that we do not get fattened, occasionally! But if you think we should let ourselves be critical, I tell you: That's what we do. We take the criticism seriously and here we discuss all things in a very serious way, as I believe, especially in the committees. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] But if you refer to Mr Gusenbauer's speech, for example, as a degree knife, I would like to say something about it. Mr. Gusenbauer is currently making a current trip through Austria, a campaign under the title “Starting Clear”. There he also travels companies, talks to entrepreneurs, I suppose, with young entrepreneurs who build a farm. I would already be interested if Mr Gusenbauer, whether you are speaking to these entrepreneurs as mandates of the SPÖ as well, as you are speaking out here: that you are making the economy bad, that Austria is a bad economic location, that the future is a disaster. [[Abg. May. Trunk: Who says that?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] They always say from this speaker's mouth that it's all bad, it's all bad what this federal government is doing. They also suggest to entrepreneurs, the population, the workers that the future is a disaster that this state is going against the wall! [[Abg. May. Trunk: Not the economy, politics is bad!]] This is also irresponsible to workers' representatives! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch:... Really an insanity!]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Health Policy...!]] You should also consider whether you are also guilty of this development, whether you are also responsible for growth in terms of economic development in our country. [[Abg. Silhavy: You should think about politics in this country!]] Take your nose and consider whether you also have a small share in whether or not we are going to do something further or not! If you already practice criticism, at least once a constructive criticism! Put in place an economic programme, at least party-internal! We would like you, Mr Matznetter, to agree at least once on a party basis with your people, within the group, what you really want, because the increase in the income tax, the re-introduction of the commercial tax in Austria, the reduction of the economy by 1 billion, you can forget with us! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: (keeping a record) We have 5 percent and their 35 percent!]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: (newly keeping a document in height)... Internet...!]] We'll never do that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We're making a tax reform! We relieve the economy of €1.5 billion! We relieve the income stakeholders, especially the small and medium-sized incomes, with €1.5 billion! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: No! Minimum Kiss...!]] A total of €4 billion will be released in the coming years due to the economic and stability packages. A great development of the Austrian economy is pre-programmed, this is a development for upswing and employment, ladies and gentlemen. If you use the 2005 budget, you will be able to read very clear outlines where the government is putting the lever on. It is committed to securing and harmonising pensions, to the economic orientation of the Austrian Federal Railways and to upgrading ÖIAG's shares. We discussed yesterday, there is an excellent performance of all strategic business areas in which ÖIAG is still involved. There is more money for research, development, innovation and education. There is more money for infrastructure, and there is above all a desire to guarantee the best health care that exists within the European Community – admittedly we are still negotiating about it. Overall, as far as the Supreme Institutions are concerned, there is a strong emphasis in the field of modern administration, a service-oriented administration. The Court of Auditors and the public prosecutors are progressing with a good example. Citizens' contact points are better taught, there is more money for citizens, and there are savings in bureaucracy. The eGovernment, the electronic act or the new accounting agency are mentioned. The people, ladies and gentlemen, feel that reforms are necessary. Let us make these reforms! These reforms are important because they guarantee the successful path of the future, and every now and then updates are necessary. We can assume that we will also make an important contribution in the field of health reform over the next few weeks. With this budget, we have created the prerequisites that family owners, small and medium-sized enterprises in particular, will be particularly favoured, because this seems very important in the near future in view of the economic situation. The economic thirst is over, ladies and gentlemen! So we have every reason for optimism. Austria is better off than ever. Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e5202	The next speaker is Mr Matznetter. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e5221	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! First of all, I would like to welcome our President-in-Office, who is here for the first time in this function, and the two lawyers. The compliment for the work of the institutions – the Court of Auditors is our institution, an institution of Parliament – is there for the billing work. This praise is shared with your predecessor now, but we believe that if the good work continues in this sense, you will receive this praise in the coming years. They will have to live with obstacles because some of them believe that it is necessary to do this, but I believe that Mr Kogler, as chairman of the Court of Auditors Committee, will be able to compensate for a lot. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: No one understands that now!]] One point which has not yet been raised: The People's Procuratorate, which is often smiled in its form, actually has an essential role in the country, namely for those citizens who have effective help with the authorities dealing with the same problems. [[Abg. Neudeck: No one is talking about the public prosecutor's office!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: We take the People's Procuratorate very seriously!]] This public service work is not always appreciated for the services it provides. I can do this at this point. I understand that the funds are often insufficient. However, I give you the promise that social democracy too appreciates and supports the importance of this institution. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: This is a dangerous threat if you promise something!]] But let's get to the heart of the 2005 budget. In the context of a long discussion, we were made aware that we should stop arguing in absolute terms. This is unpleasant, but let's stick to the relative numbers, and let's look at them! Minister of Finance Grasser – I remain conscious of the administrative deficit, since we have comparablely longer series of figures – has seen a deterioration since 2001 of minus 0.66 percent, i.e. deficit, minus 1.08, minus 1.55, minus 1.47 and minus 2.11 percent. In other words, you have a steady percentage deterioration in GDP over four years. They asked us to take a look at this. Let's look into the past! [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: You're looking for stuffy!]] What Minister of Finance has experienced in the last ten years an ongoing deterioration in his deficit? – None, except Karl-Heinz Grasser! Now we could say: This man is trying to counter a economic crisis. But what do we find out? – It has had the lowest deficit, i.e. the most restrictive budget in 2001, when growth has collapsed by more than 2.5 percent, and it has the increasing deficits adjustment in the phase when the economy is starting. On the highway you call someone who's heading in the wrong direction, ghost drivers. Budgetary policy is also said to be a finance minister, who is producing rising deficits in the face of rising economic trends, spirit drivers. I have to say quite honestly, this is a policy in which you have to consider whether you should not do the same as a driver: When will you issue your driver's license as a budget politician, Mr Mag? Grasser? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In order to pre-empt: There was a Finance Minister, but this has been more than ten years since he had a significant deterioration in the deficit. It was Ferdinand Lacina in 1992 and 1993. To do this, you have to say: In his term of office between 1988 and 1992, Ferdinand Lacina reduced this deficit from 4.2 percent to 3.2 percent. So he did not, like the young man sitting behind me, worsen it year after year, but improved it. Then there was a rise in the deficit from 3.2 per cent to 4.6 per cent in 1993. You see, these are always comparable figures, that is the administrative deficit of the federal government. At the time, however, there was an economic crisis that was countered. This is justament of the year 1993, in which we have reached an economic valley with 0.4 percent growth compared to previous years with 2.3 percent, 3.3 percent and 4.7%. What did the government achieve at the time? – By the way, you are welcome, as Mr Wolfgang Schüssel was Minister of Economic Affairs at the time. That was a joint action. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Why do we have to shout with it?]] At this time, we were reached that although we had an economic growth of 0.4 percent and the eurozone was minus 0.8 percent, by 1.2 percent better. Mag. Grasser only dreams because his policy has led us back into the middle field. The years before and after that, we were also by 1 percent better. Between 1990 and the mid-1990s we had a 1.5 percent higher growth than the average. Why? – Because a wise financial policy leads to an improvement in the economic situation, living standards and purchasing power. A bad one leads to mediocreness. And that's your policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e5363	It has Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Grasser to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e5381	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Mr. Volksanwälte! Mr State Secretary! High house! I too can help to thank the Court of Auditors and the Public Prosecutor for the good cooperation that the Ministry of Finance has been able to practice over the last five years with these important institutions in our country. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe it is important and necessary that economic policy, budgetary policy, financial policy are critically questioned by the opposition. It is also true in the economy that new products must exist all possible tests, whether they are high quality and what value they have. I can only tell you once again with deep conviction: I believe that we are very good in international comparison with this 2005 budget. We give the right impetus in terms of purchasing power, economy and investment. We will therefore be better than the euro area and better than our neighbouring countries in terms of growth, employment and the labour market. And this is a good way for Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If I'm accused of representing things too positive, then I tell you, it's also a little bit my philosophy of life, to say, I'd rather see the positive, I'd rather be optimistic, I'd rather see change than put the head in the sand and not find the solution in front of loud problems. But if you ask how positive it is and how negative it is, then I'm just looking at you, look at the facts, look at the data, because then we have to thank God, if you're interested in materiality and seriality, that we're good at it. Look at the year 2003, ladies and gentlemen! Let's compare Austria with the neighbouring countries, with the Eurozone! Austria had in 2003 – I admit, this was an economically weak year, the world’s weak year – the double economic growth like the eurozone. We had a higher price stability than the euro area, we had less than half the budget deficit compared to the twelve countries forming economic and monetary union, and we have less than half of the unemployed of these countries. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Take the EU-15!]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: 24 percent increase in unemployment!]] In 2004, we have exactly the same situation: much lower deficit, much lower unemployment, higher growth than the euro area. That is why I ask you to hold an objective debate: What can be the objective of Austria? What can be the objective of a small open economy? - Shouldn't we say: At least we're on a good path?- Oh, my God! I am never satisfied with the performance anyway, but we should be able to agree in an objective debate that we are actually good on the road. If Austria is better than Germany, Austria is better than Italy, Austria is better than the average of the twelve countries that make up economic and monetary union, because we obviously benefit from the margin, because we have set the place right, so that we are in front and better with all the criteria that are relevant to the people, to the workers, to the economy, then I must tell you that I am proud of the workers and the economy that has achieved this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I made the effort again yesterday and looked through the international media. I ask you to: Read the “Neue Zürcher Zeitung”, read the English edition of the “Financial Times”, read “Financial Times” Germany, read the “Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung”! They will find in it a whole series of analyses, by which we can say that Austria has become a positive example of reforms, as the Federal Chancellor has said, in the front of the reforms. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: (in the direction SPÖ) You only read your own press services!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: At the ads!]] In this you read of the reforms, of the achievements and of the changes that are mentioned positively. Look at Germany, look at Friedrich Merz, who just presented a book and said: Austria is better off. Austria has continued in the face of similar problems as we have, they have done better in the last five years. . I say to you, I am pleased when we get these compliments because it is nothing but recognition of the work that we have achieved in recent years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Of course, it is now said that the deficit of 1.9 per cent is too high, and you also make analyses. – Ladies and gentlemen! Alfred Finz, State Secretary Morak and I would like to tell you quite openly that 1.9 percent are too high from our point of view. I agree that the deficit is too high. Of course, we want to do everything we can to reduce this deficit, but at the same time I'm looking for fairness to see where Austria is in the international comparison. If we insist that with 1.9 percent deficit we have the fifth lowest of the euro area, i.e. the twelve countries that make up economic and monetary union, if we insist that we have the ninth best budget compared to the 25 Member States currently belonging to the European Union, i.e. the fifth best in the euro area and the ninth among the 25 Member States, I think this can really be seen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Member Matznetter, in turn, wanted to compare what policy one has made before and what policy one is now making. Ladies and gentlemen! In 1999, for example, we had a deficit of 2.2 percent. Now you can say, okay, 2.2 percent are actually not far away from 1.9 percent. It was 2.2% in 1999. One must say that this was in a situation when the euro area had a deficit of 1.3 percent, so it was much better than Austria, when the European Union of the 15 had a deficit of 0.7 percent. That is, in 1999 – at the time there was a highly economic situation – Europe was dramatically better than Austria. Now we have 1.9 percent, and the eurozone will record around 3% next year and the European Union of the 25 2.7 percent. So now we are dramatically better than the European Union, before we were dramatically worse. And if we are still considering, ladies and gentlemen, that we have adopted a tax rate of 43.7 percent and that we will be 41.7 percent next year and 40.6 percent in 2006, then we know why we have a temporary higher deficit because we have said: Reduce taxes, upgrade Austria. discharge is the right way for our country! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] The Federal Chancellor quoted Göran Persson, who said: The most difficult thing in Sweden was that from the time you have achieved stability in the budget, you have achieved a balanced budget that can continue in the future – I tell you, there was a very similar situation for us. We started in 2000 and said that we need a change in financial policy, because we always had the objective of reducing taxes and taxes. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: You went up!]] However, one cannot significantly reduce taxes and taxes if one stands at a deficit of 3 per cent and is ultimately in the European Union. Therefore, it was clear that the first way had to be to create the turnaround and significantly reduce the deficit. You never trusted us. In 2001, we managed to achieve a surplus in the budget for the first time in almost 30 years, and in 2002 we missed almost a balanced budget with a small deficit of 0.2 percent. This has enabled us, ladies and gentlemen, to reduce taxes, to counter them in the event of economic flattening, and to implement the first and second stages of the tax reform accordingly. That means, the motto was clear: First we need to clean up, then we can reduce the taxes accordingly. Now, because we have reduced taxes, we have a deficit of 1.9 percent. I'd like to show you a comparison. If we had not lowered taxes, we would have a deficit of 0.45 percent in the next year, in 2005, and would even have a surplus in our budget in 2006. [[Calls and calls between MEPs Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry and Dr. stupid.]] But we have said that it is the right way to make an appropriate tax reform if the world economy is going to be better if you can have the right momentum for more purchasing power. That means that now the taxes have been significantly reduced, and of course our objective must be that we also work again to reduce the deficit. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it's a good success that we've managed something that you didn't expect. I remember at the general debate about the budget speech you asked: How valid are the 0.5 percent surplus of the countries? The countries will never be able to agree, that will never be achieved. And that is why everything I wrote in the budget is not true. Ladies and gentlemen! We have signatures under a Financial Balance Pact, and we have reached consensus. I appreciate that, and I count it very high on our partners. I highly expect Sepp Rieder to say that Vienna has also said that we are in favour of a stability-oriented financial policy. We agree with the objective that we should have a balanced budget and a zero deficit in 2008. I think you have to recognize that. It must be appreciated that partners who negotiate with us the financial compensation say beyond party political convictions, it is right and necessary for the country to consolidate it again, that we make a stability-oriented financial policy, and that we have a balanced budget in 2008. This is what we have achieved in the negotiations. That is why you are sure, we want to reduce the deficit again, and we will be successful there too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I would also like to thank the opposition on the occasion, if I may intertwine. We are meeting today to discuss a budgetary reform. It is a very big concern to me and obviously to all of us a great concern to clarify: What can we do to improve the budgetary framework in order to contribute to a stronger regulatory financial policy that we better manage public expenditure? What can we learn from other countries that have developed spending rules in their budgetary rights? There have been a number of preliminary discussions, and I thank you for the possibility that we will at least try to reach an agreement on the legal framework of budgetary policy. I hope to establish a common initiative, based on, for example, a debt brake in Switzerland, in line with expenditure schemes, such as in Sweden, as they exist in the Netherlands, in other countries, in order to also send the signal of the entire House: Yes, we want to continue consolidation, of course, with our clear objective in the context that this tax reform will not have been the last, but that we must continue, ladies and gentlemen! If we look at where we stand in the international comparison, it is clear that we must do everything we can to reduce taxes further, for workers and for the economy so that we are competitive so that there can be more purchasing power. I am therefore on the subject of ‘reducing taxes’. Ladies and gentlemen! If the economy does not start sustainable – at least until recently, now, this year, I believe, we have a yet surprisingly strong year in the world, the strongest year in 30 years; we have a growth of about 2 percent in Austria this year – then it is extremely important that private consumption is pushed forward accordingly in order to get back more expenditure on the part of consumers. If we have the biggest increase in purchasing power in the next year with 2 percent real purchasing power increase for ten years, if you look at the increase in purchasing power since 1993, and notice that with this increase in purchasing power next year, we will also be able to spend more money on our people, the workers, the pensioners, because they remain net more, then I must say, I am deeply convinced: This is the right way to achieve a sustainable upturn and thus more growth and more employment! Look at what we've done in the economy, and move The comparison with other countries! – I ask you: You think it would have been a failure if we had gone a way like Germany or Italy, who said: We leave company taxation at just under 40 percent!, although they know that Slovakia is 19 percent, Poland is 19 percent, Slovenia is 20 percent, Hungary 16 percent, a range of 15 to 20 percent corporate taxation? [[Abg. May. Kogler: But effective! Minister of Finance, please! We are effective down below!]] I say to you, Mr Kogler, I am proud that we are below, because there is only one way: Either, Mr Kogler, you are passive like the Germans and the Italians, saying: We do not act until damage has occurred when businesses have left our country and when there is no investment in Austria! or you are proactive like this Federal Government and take up competition actively and say: We're acting now! We act at a time when businesses have not yet left Austria, we act at a time when investors say: Austria is interesting, we are coming to Austria! – We go out with Martin Bartenstein, with the Federal Chancellor, we present this in Europe so that we can get the investment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: But for the price that in the country soon only more workers will pay taxes!]] Mr deputies, we have made a tax reform that has brought €1.5 billion of redundancies to employees and we have €1.5 billion in redundancies in the economy. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: In percent please!]] In percents, honourable Members, 1.5 billions are always the same percentage, as you know. I think that's the right way for our country. [[New calls from the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Mr Matznetter, because you are just making a few objections, I am immediately referring to social democracy. You have accused me of a permanent deterioration of the deficit. Mr Matznetter, you can also accuse me that 0.1 per cent to 0.2 per cent deficit is a doubling of the deficit, fact that you have not managed to achieve 1.9 per cent deficit in the last 25 years. In fact, you have an average deficit of 3.1 percent over the past 25 years, while we have an average deficit of less than 1 percent. That is to say, we are simply dramatically better off in the development of the deficit than in the case of social democracy. In the context of the tax reform, I would like to say that I believe it is legitimate to face the people with different approaches, but we must stand by them. Mr Gusenbauer presented himself to us and said that the deficit was too high, and at the same time, Mr Gusenbauer said that the tax reform was mini-mini. That means that he would have made a much bigger tax reform, led to greater relief. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: zigzag course!]] - zigzag course. Before we implement the tax reform, Mr Gusenbauer said that 25 percent corporate tax rate, we should do so. – We have implemented this! Mr Gusenbauer, and you, Mr Matznetter, too, said that €1.5 billion of redundancie for workers, we should do so. - We did! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: You forgot the accompanying measures!]] Nevertheless, social democracy says no to this discharge, no to this tax reform. She says she would have done much more, but she criticises that the deficit is too high. Ladies and gentlemen! You can figure out whether you want to reduce or increase taxes, whether you are in favour of the zero deficit or against whether you have a line in the question of Turkey or somewhere else, I definitely have the impression that the greatest target of the honourable Member Cap in his remarks is: the best possible entertainment value for the House! He also succeeds; as a single supporter, he is excellent, I tell you. – We take care of the content! If this is the division of work, that we do the work, that Austria is on the right track, then we will be happy to continue this in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] A few words to the Greens, also in line with the tax reform. Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, we can almost assume that we are in the volume with this tax relief very well, because Social Democracy says that unless far too little has been done, it would have made a greater discharge, and the Greens say that this discharge is too great, they would not have made such a discharge. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: No! At the wrong time we said! 2001 would be...!]] I believe that these different models – once again – are quite legitimate, but one should face them and tell the population who is for what. I notice that the Greens – that was the last time at the general debate so, that was a bit so today – tend to have a strong higher state ratios, at higher tax rates. I think that's all right. If you turn out here, Professor Van der Bellen, and if Mr Pilz has spoken last time about tax increases and, as other Members of your group have said, there and there, there and there, we should take up this competition. We would like to work out the following: Austria was on a Scandinavian road, Austria was on its way to a tax rate towards 45 percent. The motto was: Everything in the state, everything by the state, everything with the state!, there was the great redistribution, one took away a lot of money from the population, in order to be able to offer a whole range of products via state services. But on the long way, until the population has reached again, a lot of money is lost. We stand for another way. We say less state, more private! We say: Down taxes! We say more freedom of the individual, because we are convinced that it has failed if the population, if each individual citizen, when each individual taxpayer can say: I got more money in the wallet. They are powerful citizens, and they can decide for themselves what expenditure they are spending and whether this is the right way for them. Therefore, I mean discharge, taxes down, Austria up – that is the right way. We have put forward a good draft budget, and I would ask you to give it your assent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e5640	Mr Matznetter spoke on an actual correction. Mr President, you know the Rules of Procedure: first, the part to be corrected, then the correction. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e5661	Madam President. Federal Minister Mag. Grasser first claimed that the former government was on its way to raise the tax and tax rate up to 45 percent before 2000. Secondly, he claimed that he had taken over a 43 percent quota at the time of his appointment and had since lowered it. - That's wrong! I'm actually correcting: Between 1998 and 2000, the tax and tax rate was reduced from 44 percent to 42.8% of GDP. If this approach had been continued, we would have reached 40 percent. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Großruck: This is not a correction!]] Finance Minister Grasser increased this quota to 44 percent in 2001. [[Call to the ÖVP and the Freeman: This is not an actual correction!]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] The Federal Minister for Finance has also claimed that social democracy has reduced taxation, tax reform... [[Abg. Neudeck: This is a speech!]] [[Many calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] – I have not given any political consideration, I have read the tax and tax ratio. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That was no actual correction!]] [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] Let's leave the rest of the correction, the rest was exactly the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e5759	Next item is Mrs Wolfmayr's speech. Madam President, you have taken a speech time of 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e5787	Madam President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Mr. Volksanwälte! High house! In my speech, I would like to devote myself to a very specific and specific chapter, namely the art budget. A good result for the promotion of art in view of the budget situation I call the increases in the estimate of the art budget. For the year 2005, €224,500 million was estimated, which is an increase of 6 percent, for the year 2006 €225,500 million, which corresponds to an increase of 7 percent. The increase in the operating budget of € 87 million in respect of € 88 million will, of course, go to the fullest for the necessary structural renovation of the Bregenz Festival House. I know that this expenditure is particularly criticized by some of you, but of course also the promotion of freedom and God is thanks now to the arfluent and institutionalized festivals for the promotion of art in the regions. This not only helps art and culture, it also helps the economy and tourism, and this is important for our international positioning. Ladies and gentlemen! This commitment to the promotion of the regions is a cultural priority of the work of State Secretary Franz Morak; also, for example, the promotion of architecture, film promotion, or cooperation with the South-East and Central European states. I would like to address two positive examples of how good cultural policy can be made in spite of and with tight operational budgets. First, I call the Künstler Social Insurance Fund. – A great success! No matter how you want to turn and turn from the opposition, this model has proved itself in practice in the three years of its existence. By the end of 2003, 7 156 artists applied, more than 5,000 were positive. For the first time, this fund provides a legally organised model for the social support of artists, who are not at the expense of the art budget, so that they do not escape the promotion of art production, and which has been added to the art budget. Another example of how different cultural policies are seen, and which has recently received additional advertising through some SPÖ broadcasts and accusations – thank you very much for that, I was certainly not intentional – is the Gironcoli Museum in Herberstein, which has been specifically made poor by my colleague Herberstein. Where your problem lies, I don't know. It may be because... – What shame I ask you for! [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Shame!]] It may be because you were never there yourself, not at the opening ceremony, a feast not only for the rulers, as you want to represent the negative in the broadcasts, but very well for all. I've been there, I've experienced it. I saw people eating, drinking, looking through park, garden, museum, walking in masses. I really don't know what you want. Here we have cut successful modern architecture, the contemporary visual artist Bruno Gironcoli to the body or to the exhibits, sensitively adapted the landscape and the existing old building body, and since the opening more than 20,000 people have just stormed the museum. These are new opportunities for international cultural tourism in Styria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] How, if not through PPP measures, through third-party funding, can art and culture be promoted in stagnant budgets, but increasing demand and rising costs? Art objects, modern architecture, ecologically run animal park, castle museum, garden, in which history and botany are conveyed sensually. Here jobs are created, especially for young people, in a region where there are no other jobs. Own use of financial resources, work is being done. – Andrea Herberstein is to be congratulated instead of doing just as you do, making her a countess and devalue her work. This woman does something for art and culture around her. She's doing something herself. But, and we already know that enough, you'd better do it bad, don't remember that with this criticism of necessary infrastructure improvements you're putting rural areas at risk, ugly and mediocre risk. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: It's about the rule of law, Mrs. Colleague!]] Criticism is the only thing you can imagine. Don't you fear that you will be lean in the competition of ideas in art and culture? But there seems to be only one wish, namely, that for power, as Voves, who can now only place a single idea in the Styria, namely to want to become “LH”, makes clear. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A positive look at the future, which honours enormous achievements in the Austrian art and cultural landscape, promotes new synergies between the economy and those in creative occupations, promote cooperation between tourism and culture, research and development, the sciences, education, a recovery of the cultural landscape – that could be, indeed, our goal; it is at least the goal of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e5852	Mr Herzegovina has spoken on an actual correction. Mr President, you know the Rules of Procedure, I do not need to repeat them. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e5875	High house! My predecessor claimed that the Gironcoli Museum was about a claim of power by state captain Voves. - That's wrong! I'm actually correcting: This support is about a smooth breach of justice by Mrs Klasnic, and that is to be criticised.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e5910	That, Mr President, was just next door, as far as the actual correction is concerned. [[Call the ÖVP:Total next door!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: But it's true at least!]] The next item is the report by Mr Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e5962	Ladies and gentlemen! I personally got the impression when, during the speech of the Minister of Finance, I looked so much at Mr Mag. Grasser is probably already the only and last one who still likes this kind of self-representation. [[Abg. Grandruck: Do you want to get rid of him?]] [[Abg. Neudeck: But you even talk about it!]] What do we have to do about us, at regular intervals, with these strange words, which I would like to mark only in one example? [[Abg. May. Posch: That's so bad!]] Tax down, Austria up! – Can you possibly continue with: Deficit up, Austria down, fees up, Austria down!Unknown term type: "%s".? How far down? What and how? Should we really do something unintelligent to communicate with each other on this – let us say it carefully? Mr Finanzminister, do you not notice that you have long since been acting like a finance minister, but like a used budget seller? [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Wouldn't it be more sensible to put these very special talents back in the service of the Carinthia car house? That's not how you lead a Ministry of Finance! Thus one may sell a used car fleet to the head of the Carinthian state, but this is not the way to treat the federal budget of the Republic of Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But this is not the way to treat a Minister of Finance, I would like to tell you that too!]] – This is just a contribution to self-treatment, Mrs. Partik-Pablé. For the second and for us. We should really consider together whether this can continue with the budget debates. Today we have 106 speakers on the list of speakers. If we take the day yesterday, the negotiations of the budget accompanying law, and count it up, then we will see that in the course of these debates we will speak to ourselves in about five hundred times. In the Committee on Budgets, we have all done this together to a far greater extent. [[Abg. Dolinschek: You always criticize that...!]] In the course of the debates on the budget estimate in the Austrian National Council, we will talk to ourselves more than a thousand times in the form of speeches and finally find that practically nothing has been changed and improved. That is why I have already allowed myself the question: What was it good for? What will this be good for in the next few days? It could only have a meaning if at least the right of question and information were respected by all of us if we received information from the Committee and perhaps even from the plenary session of this National Council. I'm just telling you one example, and this example stands for many. My colleague Wolfgang Zinggl and I have raised questions to the Minister of Education regarding budget-effective operations in and around the Art History Museum, such as: Income from the museum will be passed by the museum budget to private associations, like, Mrs. Federal Minister, will you ensure that this does not happen in the future, and what means is missing due to these practices from the Federal budget or the proposal to be adopted? – Do you know what the answer was? The answer was: I do not give you an answer, this is the audit of the Court of Auditors. Imagine that! In other words, the Minister of Education considers that all that is being examined by the Court of Auditors can not be treated by the National Council even if it is budgetaryly effective and in the Federal Council's proposal. That's completely absurd! This is not just absurd, it is an illegal behaviour of the Minister of Education in the Budget Committee! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] This is a smooth breach of the Rules of Procedure, and this is an insolence to the National Council, but an insolence which is on the agenda of this Federal Government. That is why the call of the National Council has suffered so much, and that is why we Greens are now fighting to restore the working capacity of this House. We want a working parliament and a control Parliament and not a law firm's parliament! [[Call the ÖVP:... order call!]] If we need more time in the Court of Auditors next time, you will be relinquishing this with us. And if 16 hours are not enough to get necessary information, we will talk for 20 or 30 hours. [[Abg. Murauer: We are not afraid anyway!]] We're able to work longer here. We are well-paid Members of this Republic, and we will fight for its control and labour rights in the interest of this National Council, which we guarantee you here. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Murauer: Unfortunately you did not work...!]] Their last remedy seems to be to kill those who don't talk to you after the mouth. I would like to know what happened yesterday and yesterday at the ÖVP Club in the discussion on how to deal with the proposal that the Chamber of Labour should be strangled financially because it does not properly observe the government's proposals. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Murauer]] [[State Secretary Mag. Schweitzer: The President of the Court of Auditors says the cap is better!]] These are the questions that concern: How many times can members of the Federal Government still misuse their rights of access to public funds to make critics mouth-dead? – These were many associations and organisations in the cultural field, many organisations in the field of asylum, in the human rights sector, which in the past were many social aid organisations, these were women’s organisations – and now the Chamber of Labour is on it, it is the last one in a long list. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lentic.]] That is why, for the first time since this government is in office, the central issue of this budget debate is the constant abuse of majority rights in this House. We're starting to discuss this now. And if it makes sense for 500 speakers to follow this pult in a row, maybe because a quarter of them will always draw your attention to the fact that there is a public that we are going to report on your abuse of power in this House. Werner Kogler and I have started, but we are far from finished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e6134	Mr Neudeck came to speak as the next speaker. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e6152	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. Volksanwälte! Mr. Minister! The Secretary of State! – We need to extend the speaking time when the government bank is so full. If I let the speeches of my previous speaker happen, I have to say: Mr Pilz, we are complying with laws, regulations and standards here. All these are rules that were largely not decided under this government, but under a government in which Social Democracy was the strongest party in this House – and the Greens have also voted in favour of some of them. But we have not made these rules, but we have adopted them. I am with you that we are talking about minority rights and these things, but let us also rule for some time under the conditions under which the SPÖ has previously ruled. At the end of the legislative period, we will look at that. This is a proposal on fairness. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes, I think so!]] I would like to discuss 30 hours with you in the committee, I have only sometimes the feeling that you do not discuss with us, with the representatives of the government parties, but that is a group-dynamic party where the Greens say everything they cannot say in their own group – perhaps you do not have any club meetings. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: With yourself! Self-representation!]] [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] We're going to be in the club sessions! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It has a little the appearance of a therapeutic event for me. I once enjoyed this on the Committee on Social Affairs by Mr Oellinger, who is not in the Chamber now. I enjoyed this with you in the Court of Auditors Committee and have to tell you: The Court of Auditors shall not be an investigative committee. I now come to the Court of Auditors on the subject to which I wish to turn. I do not want to talk about the Court of Auditors' budget now, for I have heard that the Minister of Finance, if it is not true, was able to correct it when he saw the Court of Auditors' budget: That you can test so much with so little budget?- Oh, my God! [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: I can't remember!]] - Please? [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: I can't remember that!]] – You can correct this, I was told so. It is true that there are no substantial changes to be found in the budget. The Court of Auditors itself is an institution which has been subject only by its reports and not so often in the House. In recent times, however, he has often been a subject, because the twelve-year term of office of the President-in-Office has ended and the new President Moser has come into office, but also because the chairman of the Kogler Committee on the Rules of Procedure interprets the Rules of Procedure in a way, I say – I am not saying “bow” or “not held”, but “interpreted” – how it is not really beneficial for a committee meeting. Then there's another attack point: The opposition wishes to re-assess the Court of Auditors and Court of Auditors reports. If a report of the Court of Auditors is positive, it must be examined for so long and so many people must be presented, until perhaps there is anything else to come, to which you can depend and which you can sell very publicly, although in fact there is nothing inside, because the Court of Auditors is properly and very carefully examining. Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors is not a committee of inquiry, nor are we here to examine the Court of Auditors in every detail now, but to interpret the Court of Auditors' reports. – This is once the one side of which the Court of Auditors is somewhat under pressure. The second side: I heard that the Convention was planned or addressed to avoid the Court of Auditors' audit mandate. I believe that it would not only be unique in the EU area, but we would now significantly upgrade and improve national control by the Court of Auditors, but also restrict the overall competence of the Court of Auditors in cross-sectional audits et cetera. I believe that this is the second point in which we must be very careful. On the one hand, it is the work in the Committee, in my view, which does not take place in an analogy with the Rules of Procedure, and on the other hand it is an attack on the powers of the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. May. Kogler: As in any other committee!]] I think we have to be very vigilant. However, I believe that under President Moser, who knows him, knows that he does not like to cut his competences, there will also be a strong action by the Court of Auditors and his President. My group will definitely support him. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address the comments made by two previous speakers. Colleague Cap has one here, I have to say, very loose and certainly – if you see it from the acting side – interesting, cabaret-like appearance. And I realized that his relationship with the artists has become a little worse in recent years. I thought that the SPÖ, as it no longer sat on the levers of power, might not be able to give the artists as it used to be. Now I think the artists see a competition in my colleague Cap. With this performance he has delivered here, I hope that he will eventually appear on a small stage, but never sit on the government bench.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e6254	The next item is the speech by Mr Wittmann. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e6273	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! The gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! This government is always talking about quantum leaps. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jakob Auer.]] If one has heard the speech of the Minister of Finance and the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany today, then one could see that was certainly a quantum leap in the liberalization of claims that took place there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] And if you have asked for a serious discussion because Professor Van der Bellen has said that you can't take over 1 : 1 what the Chancellor of the Federal Republic softens up there, then I have to say that he can only be obliged to do, because he has broken a discussion from the fence, which he now falls on his head, because he made full-page advertisements in the media: [[Abg. Grill: What was that? What does that mean?]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: “Snailed”? What kind of expression is that?]] [[Abg. Murauer: What have you “tented” everything?]] The future without debt. The fact is: This government has the highest debt there has ever been. [[Abg. Scheibner: Now he starts with this nonsense again! It's not going to happen anymore!]] In absolute terms, this government has the highest debt. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Eh clear, because you did it!]] This government has first increased the tax rate so that it can lower it now, that is the truth. And then she celebrates that she lowers the tax rate. This government has the highest number of unemployed that has ever existed. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Change the paper once!]] This government does not invest in the future because it starves the universities. Under this government we have fallen back on growth and become one of the descendants in the European Union. [[Abg. Scheibner: You can't listen to that anymore! These slogans!]] And then you'll be celebrating this as an economic guru. They're economic magic teachers, but they're not anymore! That's incredible! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Kogler.]] Ask the ladies and gentlemen at the gallery how much they have stayed in the Geldbörsl, ask each Austrian citizen how much he has really stayed! They always say that the Austrians are left more – nothing has left them, you can ask any individual citizen. You want to beautify what is happening again and again, but in reality it is a policy of waste, because you – and we were able to show it yesterday – spend 75 million €, a billion schilling, for self-advertising, just so that you can get better in the media. But the facts are simply talking to you, and you should really listen to the Austrians, what this policy has brought them, nothing. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] To the Federal Chancellor's Office's budget, you can understand this as follows: Article VI, paragraphs 12 and 13 – Look at They shall be entitled to the appropriations granted to the Minister of Finance: 10 million for the presentation of the EU Presidency in paragraphs 12 and 6 million for the 50-year second Republic in point 13. These are the means used for self-advertising, which is €16 million, since we do not do much around the federal chancellor that he can finance an inter-election campaign. There he can advertise himself with full-page advertisements, and if government policy is still so bad, it will be well represented. That's what you're paying for. A birthday celebration for a State Secretary is also paid out of tax resources, which is wonderful. Why, Minister of Finance, do you not pay a birthday celebration for all Austrians? At least that would be a fair approach. Why Pay You're just a birthday party from tax funds for State Secretary Morak? That can't be how you deal with public money! They still provide him with the Art History Museum. What's that cost? May I also celebrate my birthday there, or can only Mr. State Secretary Morak? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: No!]] [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Only the Wittmann!]] I wonder how tax is handled! 16 million for the self-advertisement in the budget of the Federal Chancellery plus 2.5 million in the budget of the State Secretary of Art, also for the celebration, for the self-representation. A further 2 million for self-advertisement and distribution to companies, basically for advertising agencies, have been re-taken in approach 08 under 7280. In the previous year of the election campaign, you will be well equipped with public funds so that you can present yourself. That's this budget! It is marked as follows: With us we save nothing, with the others we save everything, and if someone is uncomfortable, he doesn't get anything – like the workers' chamber. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Kogler.]] [[Abg. Jakob Auer: In Wiener Neustadt they celebrate...!]] Dear friends! Thus, we cannot make budget policy in this country – and we do not let ourselves be controlled at all, and what is happening in the Kunsthistorisches Museum, all Austrians are interested, just not this government. What happens there is absolutely fatal: There are birthday parties thrown, there is an indiscriminate purchase, there companies are bought. What's going on there shows a moral view of this government! There will be money thrown out without control, and then someone will come up and question it, then he will be made mouth-dead, or no committee will be made because he is not necessary. - We celebrate ourselves! The Republic is going down, people have nothing left in the money tax, but we are celebrating ourselves – that is the attitude of this government, and that can't be it! In order not to make everything bad – there are also some good approaches in this budget –: In the field of sports, something has been done, and I must congratulate the Secretary of State. This is a good solution, and I would like to conclude with it.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e6470	The next item is the speech by Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e6488	Madam President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! Dear Dr. Wittmann, Mimik and Gestik are almost as good as Dr. Cap, but I would have liked to have liked the content if you had not only dedicated your final remark to the sport chapter, but as sports spokesperson of your party, I would have praised the government's truly excellent sports policy even more. So I come to the gratifying point for sport – as a sports speaker of the ÖVP, I am particularly pleased that the sports budget is a particularly encouraging chapter in the success balance of the Austrian Federal Government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The sport will have at its disposal in the next few years most of the funds he has ever had in the history of sports in Austria. The allocation of funds also ensures that the right recipients will be used with these funds in the future. Already in the past, the Federal Government, with its commitment to the promotion of sport, broadband, and associated with top-ranking sports, has given a clear signal to the importance of sports. This commitment is clearly renewed in the budget presented. It is a clear sign that our Federal Government is ready to take up the momentum it has taken from the Paralympics and the Athens Olympic Games and invest in new projects and, on the other hand, to force preventive measures in the field of health promotion. We're making a clear statement. Signal that we are facing the future’s sports and health challenges. It is in times when, no matter whether the federal government or the Länder, everyone is concerned about the funding of hospitals and the cost of the health system is a lot of concern, especially important to invest money in public health. The Federation here, as has already been said, is a real sign which I recommend to the countries, especially my homeland Salzburg, to imitate. The results of Athens have proved that the framework conditions for Austrian sport are right. Our participants in the Paralympics have received one medal after another, and the participants in the Olympic Games have also been extremely successful. From Thomas Geierspichler to Hagara/Steinacher to Claudia Heill all have one thing in common: You have successfully represented our Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] A share of this has certainly also provided financial support from the means of sport. For the coming years, we have achieved a clear increase in the field of special federal sport promotion: At least €40 million are available for 2005. At the same time, the top cover has been removed and thus an old desire of sport has been fulfilled. With the connection to the success of the Austrian lotteries, the sport in the future is More resources to be expected. For 2005 it is € 2.8 million in concrete terms. The president of the BSO Dr. Franz Löschnak said in the last issue of the BSO magazine – I quote – that: This result for sport is a very positive one. In the discussions with us and in the end with the budget, Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel proved that sport is a real concern to him. - Quote. And I don't think there's anything to add to it. This new regulation has a far-reaching impact on high-quality and high-quality sports in Austria. Professional associations will receive more money in the future and can thus make their services even more available to athletes. This is the basis for the further success of our athletes. However, I would also like to stress the importance of the sport of disabled people. Under this federal government, the sport of disabled persons was first equipped with the necessary resources and its importance was thus promoted, and the athletes thank it with great achievements. But let us not overlook another important point: The sports landscape is becoming increasingly diverse, new sports are becoming popular, and new professional associations are emerging. With the new regulation of special federal sport promotion, we are also fit for the future. The financial resources are sufficient to include other professional associations in the BSO and still be able to provide the necessary resources. Especially welcoming and welcoming is the commitment to the large sports events. I am a great advocate of the continuation of the Austrian tradition in the orientation of large sports events and was recently confirmed by the Wifo in this attitude: Sports events bring a high value added that works regionally and over regionally. Let me just point to Salzburg. We can realistically expect the creation of 800 annual jobs through the infrastructure measures under the Euro 2008. It is therefore also important that we return to Olym Apply pish games. In this field of application, we should not get ourselves in Austria, but the EOC should choose those candidates who have the best chances in Austria or the world. However, I think it would be useful to bring a certain degree of continuity into the application and not to change the horse or the city at every application – just to increase the satisfaction of the ski association president. [[Complaints with the EIA and representatives of the Free Trade Unions]] Maximum opportunities before individual interest must apply for the 2014 application! Finally, I would like to mention the project by Secretary of State Schweitzer “Fit for Austria”, which is being carried out together with the Federal Sport Organisation and the umbrella organisations, which brings on the market an offer for all generations that can make a significant contribution to the health of Mrs and Mr Österreicher, no matter what age. The praise expressed in the Committee by all the political groups on the sports budget shows once again the not only national but also party-related power of sport. In this sense for a sporty Austria: Let's go, let's go, let's go!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e6594	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). – Mr State Secretary, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e6613	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen from the Government, particularly the gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate and Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! Budgetary negotiations can always be better, but I believe that, in terms of the budgetary situation, what we have negotiated here – even in good consensus with the Ministry of Finance – is a good result that can be seen. It is € 87 and € 88 million available here. This is an increase of 6 and 7 percent for the years 2005 and 2006. I think that can be seen. In the budget issue, we see how each approach has increased. The approaches in which there has been an increase in recent years have remained the same at this high level, and a number of other approaches have increased slightly, particularly in the areas of architecture, regional funding, new media and cooperation between Austria and south-eastern and central Europe. As regards the accusation that there would be less budget available because we are investing in Bregenz, namely for the Bregenz Festival House, I would like to say that other priority projects are, of course, going out. I refer here to the Gironcoli Museum, to the special exhibition on the enlargement of the European Union and also to “art against violence”, so that more money for art remains in the final effect than it was this year. Not taken into account in the Committee's deliberations – and I would like to point out this – and here in plenary, we will always have a budget that is available for the Künstler Social Security Fund on the one hand, at least € 4.5 million, and for the TV Film Fund on the other hand, that is € 7.5 million. This money is not embedded in the art budget. And I would like to point out that this budget was a trigger, especially as regards the film, for very large investments in the film location in Austria. Only yesterday did we hear that through this €7.5 million in Budget for RTR investments from January to now amounted to €43 million. On the occasion of the opening of the Museum of Contemporary Art in Salzburg, the internationally renowned museum expert Dieter Bogner gave an interview in the “Salzburger Nachrichten” which I do not want to hold back from you. He said: “In the past 15 years, Austria and its neighbouring regions have developed a dense network of museums and exhibition houses of modern art. ... Think of new buildings or adaptations of old buildings in recent years: Kunsthaus Bregenz, Galerie im Taxispalais Innsbruck, Lentos Linz, Museum Modern Art Klagenfurt, Kunsthaus Graz, Kunsthalle Krems and Wiener Museumsquartier.” I'm still saying, Essl Collection in Klosterneuburg and Gironcoli Museum in Styria. I think my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, such a judgment of an undisputed expert in visual art should be taken note of and we should also be happy to vote in relation to the investments made by the Republic in the art site Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The anniversary year 2005 was also addressed by Mr Wittmann. This is where the government wants to join, according to its opinion. I am telling you that this is not the case, but, of course, the government will be there and the government is behind it. What's going to happen? – In the first place, all institutions are invited to present their views on this anniversary for 60/50/10 years. There should be a focus on the various institutions, which have a very broad approach to the subject. The experiences, the possibilities, the resources of the different houses are to be presented. The questions are as follows: What is progress? How do we deal with progress? What is freedom, what is prosperity, what is the isolation of the individual? What is our history, what is our history? And: What is our environment, what is our social status? And so on and so on. I think this approach is broad, this approach is diverse, and it is also controversial and diverse. That is what we are, we are our taxpayers, but we are also guilty to the different administrations of this Republic of the last 60, 50 and 10 years that we are meeting here. I can also tell you right away that this is not, of course, all that is paid out of the art budget. Mr Wittmann mentioned this. This, of course, has something to do with an expenditure empowerment for 2005. These are planned major events, which are not to be operated from the art budget, but, of course, from these expenditure appropriations. Let me also refer to a survey by the Fessel GfK Institute on the origin of the Austrian nation: Do the Austrians believe that the Austrian nation has only existed since the Second Republic? Two thirds of the respondents see the creation of the Austrian nation located between 1945 and 1955. 57 percent of Austrians believe that this country gives Austria hope, and that is also, as I believe, legitimate and good access to this subject of celebrations. So I repeat: On the basis of a broad discussion and differentiated access to the various positions, it is about: How do we see the past? Genheit? How do we shape the present? And: How do we build our future? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e6692	Next is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e6710	Poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr. Volksanwälte! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! I would like to take the opportunity of the budget debate first of all to thank, on behalf of the Green Group, the Members of Parliament for this full service they offer us. [[General condolences.]] It is in this general debate that Parliament's budget is being debated, and this is particularly true of us as a parliamentarian, but also of the parliamentary groups and the staff of parliamentarians. Not that you believe that I would be satisfied with the Parliament budget, not because I am a Member of Parliament, but because I think it is a fundamental matter, as in Austria, of this relation between legislative and executive. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: We would not have expected you to be satisfied!]] It always says that the budget is the policy cast in figures. If you look into the corresponding budget issue, you can see that the legislative, namely the legislation, is simply a “poor” compared to the budgets that the executive has, the ministries say, available. If only I can recall one again: We do not have a constitutional service here in Parliament, which goes through the laws that are being passed here once more and examines constitutional conformity. This is a standard, the European Parliaments, whether in Western Europe or Eastern Europe, have everywhere – except for Parliament in Austria! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is important to me. I would like to make two comments, not so much on the budget and on content in relation to the public prosecutor's office and the Court of Auditors, but two comments in connection with the discussions in the Convention. So I can only describe the idea of the People's Procuratorate as an absolutely unmistakable idea. We are talking here of an institution based on the fact that three national lawyers work in their territories, which they have divided, and with a chairman for more than 25 years – soon it will be 30 years – in the sense of the Austrian population seeking so many councils. This number of Volksanwälte – maybe be You will report this to the plenary today, so that it can be heard by those who have not been present in the Committee on Budgets – simply to reduce, as proposed by President Khol in the Convention, this is something I think is absurd! Those ladies and gentlemen who have devoted themselves to the public prosecutor's office, their resources and their work in recent years know that the public prosecutor's office needs something different, namely more testing possibilities, more equipment! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is my bridge to the new President of the Court of Auditors, who is here for the first time today, as already mentioned. The Convention did not propose, for example, that the Court of Auditors should be given more powers and that the funds should be increased, no, it is proposed to limit the audit activity of the Court of Auditors. They are not just sitting next to each other – as Parliament's institutions – but these proposals are also made by both institutions. And I think that the rule is a “attack” – under quotation marks – also on the division of powers between executives and legislatives. These are the institutions of the National Council, and if ideas of circumcision of these institutions are ventilated in the Convention, and this is what the President of the National Council has to do, then finally those members of the National Council who are not in the Convention must become aware of what these ideas and intentions for the future could mean. I know that you are opposed to and opposed by the People's Procuratorate Office and the Court of Auditors – the support of the Greens can at least have in both cases. Since I have only seven minutes at my disposal, unfortunately I can no longer speak to your work, except to thank for it. Please tell all the employees of the respective institution, because it is our concern – we from the Greens work very well with you. I now turn to Mr President-in-Office Morak in the representative of the Federal Chancellor and I would like to speak on the subject of ethnic groups. It's not going to be quite unexpected for you to say something about it. The fact that the budget for the ethnic groups in the field of discretionary expenditure in recent years, not quite by chance, has not even increased by one cent since black and blue, I point out every time. [[State Secretary Morak: But also not shortened!]] “But not shortened!” – and he is still proud of that, he has to whisper to me! Mr State Secretary! That's such a naughty sum: € 3.76 million. This is a “crack” compared to the sums already mentioned by the advisory fees. You'd actually have to get up to the face of the mama's red. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But this is a category that is not known in this government – we know this from Mr Grasser to the satisfaction of the Federal Minister – namely that one also shows such a thing as a certain devotity to the task one has. Mr. State Secretary Morak, you raised the theme of the "Year of Jubilee" in connection with the next year. I say “Yubling Year”, because what I read in the newspapers about the presentation on Monday is a jubilee and nothing else. Apart from a Portuguese documentation in the ORF – beautiful and good – there is nothing in it that deals exactly with those points that are so essential to the identity of the Second Republic, where it is also about the other Austria in the sense of minorities, marginal groups. I can't find any of that in this jewel that was presented. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: There are exhibitions, Mrs. Colleague!]] And then you say, It's great that we didn't cut the population promotion of 3.76 million! - That's all I'm saying now. But one more thing I would ask you to extend to the Federal Chancellor. He has today, because no one did this yesterday, announced here that there is likely to be a convention conference again in January. – Thank God, I can only say! ==References== May 2005, the 50th anniversary of the state treaty and thus the anniversary of Article 7 of the Vienna State Treaty, hastens to us in huge steps. Thank God he finally heard that it would be an international shame if you turned to 15. May next year celebrate in Belvedere and in Carinthia there is no additional placeboard. Yes, the opposite is the case: The corresponding regulations of the Federal Government have not been fulfilled for 30 years! Perhaps the Federal Chancellor, perhaps even by whispering on your part, understood that you have to face this international shame. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, the European Union Human Rights Agency, also mentioned by the Federal Chancellor, is based in Vienna. The plans there are, I stand and we are very positive towards Greens. But that's another thing! It is important for us to have European institutions here, but the credibility of these European institutions, which we have in Austria, is supported above all by what is done at national level on these issues, is primarily supported if we are a model for the other 24 EU countries, which are also covered by European institutions such as the Observatory and perhaps the Human Rights Agency. And there you have to take your own nose and do something nationally related to human rights policy! And do not do anything, but do more! It doesn't mean nothing is done. Then it will not be difficult to establish this institution, which is based in Vienna, accordingly from Austria. I wish you all the best, Mr Secretary of State Morak! I hope not – this is not meant personally – that you still have a very long opportunity to do so in the representative of the Federal Chancellor, because I believe that there is only one solution in terms of this budget and this government: Lifetime must be shortened as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e6828	The next item is the speech by Mr Lichtenegger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e6847	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I'm not usually a friend of the polemics. However, I must reply to Mr Wittmann's polemics. He meant that it was impossible to organize a birthday celebration for all people. - He missed it! The birthday for all has already taken place. [[Abg. May. Worm: For the population!]] That was the birthday of a new, forward-looking and successful policy, and it was in 2000, if you can still remember. That was the birthday for everyone! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. To be sure, Mr Colleague, there is no way all of Austria can give up the gifts!]] We also now have a birthday to celebrate, namely the birthday of a new sports budget. One can quietly say that we have done something there, because this sports budget already has something historical. So this is the second birthday that we can celebrate today, because the capping of the sales revenues of the Austrian lottery company, which benefits sport, is a historical thing. That's where we'd like to have a party. My previous speakers have already spoken about Olympic success, and I can also mention it. One of the athletes at the Athens Olympics is sitting here today and listening to this sport discussion, Raphael Hartl, who was in one row. - Hello, Raphi! [[General condolences.]] I was just asked by a journalist what I thought about the performance of Minister of Finance Grasser. I answered that I can only speak for my part. As a sports speaker, I can say: What Karli Schweit-zer and the Minister of Finance have put on their feet in the field of sports is really a good performance! It must be recognized that something has really been done. Mr Cap said at the very beginning of the debate that he wanted to be a little bit involved in history. That's what I thought, good, I'm looking at the history of sports in Parliament. As of the 1980s, the sport was pushed back and forth, from the Ministry of Education to the Ministry of Arts, then there was a Federal Ministry of Health and Sport, and then the sport was a short while for consumer protection. At the time Grollitsch was still a member of parliament, there was for the first time a sports committee, and finally the sport ended up where he belonged, namely to the Freeman and Karl Schweitzer. He is the first really active sports state secretary. You can ask the officials, the professional associations and the athletes: Karl Schweitzer is one who works for sports, and he really does this with enthusiasm. That's what you're gonna notice. There's something going on. This budget and these negotiations are also crucial to the active and dynamic progress once again, as we have long fought for Austrian sport. Of course, we cannot say that in Athens we have achieved such successes because we are making such a good policy. That might be a measure. In a few years, however, we may be able to say: At that time we made the right choices, then we took the money into our hands! Then one can say that this was the success of a long-term planned work. [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Grandruck.]] It must also be said that, for example, the Olympic funding will be increased from 2005 onwards. There will be € 2 million. This is already a step in which one sees that real focus is placed in the Olympic sports. There is also investment funding of €5 million in 2005. All of this concerns general sports promotions. One also invests in the stadiums, for example in Klagenfurt. Mr Wittmann has asked again and again in the Committee on Budgets, which is now with the Stadium in Klagenfurt. I can only mention that yesterday in Klagenfurt the stadium contracts for the Euro 2008 were signed and that the agreement was cancelled by the city Senate. The only ones who were not there were the Greens. UEFA – just so you can have a few numbers in your head – pays the city for the rental during the European Championship € 800 000. In addition, the IHS has accounted for some €384 million in value for Austria through this European Championship – since it is always said that the investments are too high, that is so much money. If you invest that meaningfully, such as in a stadium project, where you get a bit of value added after that, it makes sense. With sport – you know that – you can not only maintain health and inspire young people, but you can also earn good money. We have a lot of potential for this. I would also like to say that, of course, the stadium in Klagenfurt is not the only investment promotion next year. [[Abg. Grillitsch: (in the direction of State Secretary Mag. Schweitzer) Made of wood, Klagenfurt!]] There are a few priorities, including the ice sports centre in Innsbruck with around €240 000. In Linz the athletic hall is supported with around €440 000. For a football stadium in Salzburg we apply 3.1 million €. At the Neusiedler See there is a sailing performance center, in Innsbruck the bob and toboggan run is also supported in addition to the ice hall, the Kulm, which everyone knows, the Ringerzentrum in Götzis. [[Abg. May. Worm: Was already estimated by the SPÖ government, 1998!]] – You really tried, you have to say that. You can't say you didn't do anything. But, of course, we've done the wrong thing and we've really taken things into our hands. What's happening in sports now has real hands and feet. I can only say that I am also pleased that the SPÖ did not come up yesterday when it came to the evaluation. I know how this happened, but it already shows that everyone is interested in the Austrian sport. This does not mean, however, that it should always be called that everything be right and beautiful and nice and everything around the athletes is good. There may well be controversial discussions. That, I believe, promotes progress, and so it should remain in the future. In principle, however, it is preferable to me when everyone pulls on one strand because it is simply good for sports as a whole.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e6951	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Schweitzer. Mr State Secretary, I give the floor to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e6970	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not know if it is for me to give you advice, but I thought it would be useful, at least, to make sure that the speeches on the budget debates ensure that the individual interlocutors are interconnected, because this would lead to a better structure of the debate and could also make the listeners more aware of the debate. I was quite surprised when Mr Stoisits appeared in the circles of the sports speakers, but was not convinced that she replaced colleagues Brosz, and her speech also showed me that Mr Brosz is still the sports speaker. It would probably have been very useful if he had completed this reign and then the whole thing had been debated in a block. [[Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser: Talk to the President!]] Mrs Moser! There are, after all, some of what you are more interested in, and I believe that it is particularly interesting to hear all the opinions in a row, in order to really conclude a debate on a budget area. [[Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser: But you have to discuss this in the Presidential!]] – Well, Mrs. Moser, you don’t understand, but maybe some others understand. At least it is a very encouraging occasion for everyone, I think today to talk about this budget for 2005 because some things could be improved. In this House we will also be discussing the budget already set for 2006. It is important for me to stress that it has succeeded in working together and in a very good cooperation not only with the sports speakers, but also with the individual sports associations, with the organized sport of this outcome that we are discussing today. It is not obvious at a time when the financial resources are actually limited that an area is so well equipped. I am very glad that this area is the sport this time and that a practice so far has not been continued, namely that the sports budget is covered. At the time, 3.5 percent of sales revenue was said to be available to sport, but with a lid that was collected at 50 million in old currency, which led to the end of the 3.5 percent that were planned, only 2.7 percent were paid out. That's why I'm glad that the lid is up there, but it was pulled in below. That means, there can never be less for the sport, but it can all become more. The more played in Austria, the higher the proceeds for sports. I think that's good, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is also good that we, together with the sports organisations, have agreed on setting priorities with what is now more paid, so that these funds are not distributed according to the principle of foundry – as in the past often the case – but that we focus both in the field of broadband – happen with the action “Fit for Austria”, in which all the umbrella organisations, namely ASKÖ, ASVÖ and UNION, cooperate – as well as in the field of top sports, where we have been able to develop the top sports promotion system with “TOP SPORT AUSTRIA” into an instrument that really takes into account the individual needs of athletes massively. I believe that the successes of the recent past are certainly partly due to the fact that we were able to create professional framework conditions for top athletes. That our sailors, for example, have been so successful in recent years, is certainly to be attributed to them first and foremost, because they are simply among the best. But the best also need excellent framework conditions, and they have gotten them, with a new sailing center and with optimal care. They were probably able to engage the best trainer in the world, and that our sailors in Athens carried a meteorologist, as well as a sports psychologist, who were just the small, additional support that eventually led them to become Olympic winners or that others had so excellently cut off. Now another little detail: The now invited double medal winner from Athens, Markus Rogan, is one who has not been so well known recently. He once wrote to us that he had excellent training conditions, but he had to live in the student home. If one lives in the student home, then of course he is not able to find the rest he may need. With “TOP SPORT AUSTRIA” it was possible to finance his own apartment, which gave him the necessary rest for the training he needs as a top athlete. Perhaps that was a small contribution to the great success. I mention this because all of this is now possible with “TOP SPORT AUSTRIA” because we can double this amount because we have a little more available for the trainers – for the training of trainers, for the training of trainers and for the exchange of information between the trainers. All of this is possible with this budget. They know that sports successes are balsam for the soul of the Austrians. We are very happy to identify with this. But not just that! Sport is also an essential factor in many other areas, whether for tourism, tourism, the sports goods industry, sports trade or, increasingly, health. We also want to focus on this, with a completely new form of sports policy: Health care, prevention of organized sports, which will enable us to provide opportunities for action where they are necessary, even in kindergartens and, more hopefully, in schools. The collaboration with the clubs is very good. We will make sure that the clubs come to the schools to offer opportunities of movement that interest the children. With the occupational health care, which can again be ordered by the doctors through the “green recipe”, which allows the relevant units to be completed by the professional associations, and with our action “Fit for 50 plus”, which you hopefully already know all, we want to make an essential contribution with organized sport to the fact that health insurance funds are “healthy”. [[Abg. Mandak: Everything that is good is green!]] I hope and count on your support! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e7098	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Worm. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e7117	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Mr. Volksanwälte! If you, as Secretary of State, have euphorically praised the sports budget and the increase in the sports budget, I would like to inform you: Don't forget the gender aspect in sports, because that's something very important! I also say that because I haven't seen a single woman on the government bank all morning. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory note by Secretary of State Mag. Schweitzer.]] The whole morning was not a single woman here on the government bank. That hurts, it hurts if one also has women's policy in mind. [[Abg. Neudeck: But the President is like that! She's sitting everywhere!]] – On the government bank, Mr. Neudeck! But let me say something to Mr Volksanwälten. [[State Secretary Mag. Schweitzer: I can't be changed!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: You wouldn't be a beautiful woman either!]] – Yes, you cannot be transformed, but there are 52% women in this Republic, and this should be reflected somewhere, Mr State Secretary! [[Abg. Neudeck: Mr State Secretary, you are hardly seen as a man!]] To the Volksanwälten: Mr Wittmann said earlier: Whoever is uncomfortable, he will be put to death! You've already felt this a little, gentlemen and the lady of the People's Procuratorate! All of a sudden, we broke a discussion off the fence and said during the Convention discussion that now we don't need three people's lawyers, one or one is going to be enough. Have you taken their work too seriously? Did you show what to show? And now the kid is coming! Now it's said one be enough. Did you really do that good? Then I congratulate you, gentlemen and my lady of the People's Procuratorate! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To rise: The People's Procuratorate has more and more to do. Perhaps it is also the policy of this government. - I'll ask you that. More than 15,000 attachments are processed each year, 270 spokesmen are held in the federal and Vienna countries and 4,000 individual talks are held with the citizens. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Most come from Vienna, Mrs. Colleague!]] You want to do this? Or should this only be done by the officials who are instigated? Do you imagine parliamentary control? – That can't be serious! [[Abg. Wittauer: Gisela, slow reason!]] – I can speak as quickly as I want, Mr Wittauer, think you’ll be faster! [[Sociability and applause at SPÖ and Abg. Neudeck.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: He was good!]] The Volksanwälte exercise a very important and essential function in this state. It is a very essential thing for democracy to be everywhere where there are maladministrations. That these are not few, they prove with their statistics. It is also to be said – I am deduced from the survey carried out in the spring of this year – that the public prosecutorship has a very good acceptance in the population. This instrument is not an essential instrument, but rather an attack on it, which is really a scandal, ladies and gentlemen. - Yes, it's one! [[Abg. Großruck: Again!]] [[Abg. Big Truck: The scandal is male!]] It is a scandal to want to break down some important foundations of democracy. But he that is uncomfortable shall be put to death. [[Abg. Wittauer: Gisela, you don’t realize you’re mouth-dead!]] - No, that's good. Let me now say something about the special reports that have already been done by the People's Procuratorate, not exactly about the pleasure of the then Clubobmann Khol. I believe that this work is necessary and important. I believe that this should be enshrined in the Constitution, and I am also the responsibility of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives for believing that in the future the reports of the Public Prosecutor's Office should be assigned to the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, which in future should be called the Committee on Public Prosecutorship, Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives. Finally, I would like to point out the following: I am sorry that the Minister of Finance or the Deputy Chancellor, who has just looked by, has come to us. [[Abg. Neudeck: He has to rule!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Only in the short term!]] I would like to ask you what is now the case with the procedures in the Ministry of the Interior or in the Ministry of Finance in relation to the conversion of customs guards. What is the fact that half of the 2 000 customs guards are to be relocated to the Federal Ministry of the Interior? A certain number have opted for this, and as it was then, all Vorarlberg customs guards who wanted to go to the Ministry of the Interior have received a notice on this after the intervention of Mr. Vice-Chancellor. - It was. But if not the highest level of intervention, such as that of the around ten Tyrolean customs guards, then it didn't go, then it didn't work. At five of the outside customs guards, the head of state of Tyrol, van Staa, intervened, as it was possible again. What are the criteria for moving people back and forth? – That would be an interesting question to be answered! There's a need for action! Mr. Volksanwälte! I would like to continue to wish you a lot of commitment in the interests of the citizens – and do not let yourself be put to death, they continue to be uncomfortable! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e7334	Next item is the report by Mr Lopatka. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e7353	Mrs. Wurm, you forgot your scandal paper. [[The speaker keeps the manuscripts up to date.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: But there can't be anything on it that she said!]] [[Abg. May. Worm: (returning to the speaker's console and taking in the manuscripts) Thank you!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In one case, I can follow the remarks made by the colleague, namely the congratulations and the appeal to Mr Volksanwälte regarding her commitment and her work. But this has already happened, because this speech was a continuation of what was started today by the Clubobmann Gusenbauer. [[Abg. Neudeck: She was better!]] He has started the debate today with the fact that he has made a location determination. I'm just wondering who he made this location for. He sees the future black. [[Abg. Neudeck: Here you meet!]] The present is very negative. The only positive he finds in his world is actually in the past. If he has spoken here of the Republic, he is certainly wrong, he lacks the necessary optimism and probably also the necessary strength to be able to actually co-shape. But if he meant his party, then he could be right, because here is probably the great time in the past and not in the future. That's what distinguishes him from us! We try – and not without success – to work consistently on the future of the Republic. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] What has been presented here in the budget – and we are now discussing the top bodies, we are discussing the administration of the federal government – is a very important area in which successes are already clearly visible. We are concerned with positioning Austria as far forward as possible, modern and as far as possible forward within the EU-15. If I have only one area out of the administration, in which there has already been a lot of success, I do so very consciously, because I consider the e-government to be a key sector in order to be able to carry out our tasks with fewer staff in the future, but at the same time as far as possible customer and service-oriented. Austria is here at the front, and this should not be mentioned here today. We have already made it in May of this year, in fact as the first member country of the European Union, that all official documents can be delivered electronically. The second very important thing is the electronic act – the German Chancellor has mentioned it very briefly even today – as the core of the eGovernment, with us already so far that a large part of the file can be done electronically and, of course, a huge amount of time and thus money and effort can be saved. 91 percent of companies in Austria already have Internet access, and 70 percent of these companies use the electronic act. This is a very high proportion. Two thirds of the companies are already in contact with the administration in the electronic sector. If 4 500 employees already work in this form in the seven ministries, this is one of many projects that are necessary to position Austria at the front of the EU-25. That is our core task, and in this core task I unfortunately sometimes miss the support from the left side of this house. However, we do not let up, we are consistently continuing this path of a modern, forward-looking administration.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e7446	Mr Brosz spoke on business. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e7464	Thank you, Madam President. . Since, as Mr Schweitzer correctly pointed out, we have to discuss the Federal Chancellor's Office with departments and we have to note that Mr Morak and Mr Bundeskanzler are not present – the subject of "art" is part of this debate – we attach importance to Mr Morak's attendance at this debate. I would like to make the request for the withdrawal of Secretary of State Morak for the debate on the art budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e7492	I would like to refer to the request put forward... Of course, honourable Member, a request has been made. [[Abg. Neudeck: He didn't make a request! He just said he wanted...! He didn't make a request!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: He just said he wanted to!]] Mr Klubobmann Molterer has spoken on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e7547	Madam President, I assume that this is a good practice, and we have recently confirmed this in the presidential term. Madam President. This is a discussion on the chapter ‘Highest Institutions’, and it is represented on the Government Bank: a representative of the Federal Chancellery as an essential representative of the Supreme Institutions, the President of the Court of Auditors, the representatives of the People's Procuratorate. I do not understand this discussion now! I trust the State Secretary Schweitzer that he is of course able to answer all questions relating to the Federal Chancellery. He has my full confidence! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e7580	Mr. Klubobmann Scheibner, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e7601	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! We now know these little games. I still have a certain understanding when a minister of a different place than the one on the debate is present here and when one says here that there is no reference to the resort in question at all. But here we have State Secretary Schweitzer, State Secretary at the Federal Chancellor's Office, and this should be an adequate representation for the department for the Greens, for the top institutions we are debating today. That is why, if it has been submitted accordingly, this request is not to be supported from our point of view. The Secretary of State Schweitzer is for us a sufficient and excellent representation for the chapter “Top Institutions”.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e7628	Member of the European Parliament on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e7646	Madam President. High house! The application was properly submitted. Mr. Klubobmann Molterer has... [[Abg. May. Molterer: That is usually the opinion of the President and not you.]] Can I see that for myself, Mr. Klubobmann Molterer? So far, it has been Usus that speakers who have spoken on business affairs have not been taken by club members of other political groups, Mr Klubobmann. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Where are your club tours? They're not here!]] I should like to support Mr Brosz's request for my group, because Mr Schweitzer, the State Secretary, is in charge of the Federal Chancellor's Office, but is not really responsible for the top bodies and for the departments concerned and also for the establishment plan. That is why we support the request for the withdrawal of Mr Morak's Secretary of State or would much rather be the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e7697	I shall vote on the request for the withdrawal of the Federal Chancellor. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: He made no request, he just said he wanted to!]] Whoever gives his consent to this request by Mr Brosz, I would like to ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority, and the request is therefore rejected. The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Dr. Zinggl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e7732	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Mr. Volksanwälte! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! It is already very interesting that the State Secretary for Art does not participate in the debate on art. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Supreme Organs!]] After all, this request to the Rules of Procedure has resulted in the hall being re-filled in the short term only for the purpose of decommissioning the application. [[Abg. Scheibner: Of you there is not even the club tour!]] I know, of course, Mr Scheibner, that art does not have the financial and political importance that we Greens would like to give it. [[Calls and unrest in the hall.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] In Parliament, of course, art is being negotiated on a kind of symbolic terrain, which is already clear to us, but then I would like to take the opportunity to look at this symbolic field more closely. First of all, this art budget is extremely low in relation to the total budget, the second noteworthy thing is that no one knows exactly how high it is or how big it is. The Federal Chancellor speaks of an increase of 6 per cent, and Mr Wolfmayr speaks of € 224,000, the Secretary of State speaks of € 87 million. It's not going out front and back. We thank God for having received the documentation for the 2005 proposal, and there you can experience an increase of €4.5 million – you can easily read it. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In 2004 it is €220 million and in 2005 it is expected to be €224.5 million. That's just for an investigation, so you know what it really looks like. Of course, the € 4.5 million is not a 6 per cent, but that is – and this is easy to calculate – 2 per cent, and that is not really significant. But how is this small budget used symbolically now? For the government, art is primarily an economic factor – and that is what we hear in all possible speeches, but also in Parliament. There their tourist nature and commercial benefits, the re-route profitability on every occasion, will be highlighted, and only when this somehow calculates will be invested. The best example is Vorarlberg. – I have mentioned this before. – If you consider that next year €11 million will flow from the federal art budget to Vorarlberg and 10.2 million of them will go to the Bregenz Festival, you already know about what is going on. This syringe has been necessary because an institute has calculated that it somehow returns to business. This art understanding is of course always interwoven with a kind of enjoyment claim, with a kind of hedonism, and it manifests itself in the construction of buildings, in the orientation of major events, of festivals, in short: in scenes. He manifests himself in what one can call a kind of high culture and what has nothing to do with what one can understand as advanced art of experiments, test fields and innovative impulses. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] But, Mrs Colleague, there is still a second art concept that is put at home to the citizen, and that is the support of the territorial nation state. This function of art should have already been overcome in the face of global and European politics and problems, but is used again and again to celebrate Austria. So Austria celebrates itself practically permanently as a cultural nation with a big hello and lots of money itself, always congratulating itself. Now, if you combine these two aspects of art understanding, namely the big events and the national celebrations, you can say: The Federal Chancellor expressed this very well yesterday, when he said: Since the Baroque celebrations are part of the Austrian identity! If this has been the case since the Baroque, I can point out that in the Baroque, of course, not the Austrians have celebrated, but the feudals, and this continuity has actually continued to this day. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] When we look at how the State Secretary for Art – now he's not here – with the director of the Art History Museum – ah, he's here now!; I greet you; it is about art – celebrating together birthday, then we see that this continuation of the feudal is quite an intention of art thought, as you represent it. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] We wish for an accent shift, an assessment of the cultural nation not from the established lighthouses – so Mozart operas and climate decorations – but from the economic margins, because I believe that a cultural nation is only as strong and as good as the economic margins are participating in it. Today, cultural capital is often transformed into economics, but it can remain independent as cultural capital or at least be converted into social things if you already want to transform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e7821	Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé will speak next. – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e7839	Ladies and gentlemen! When I listened to my previous speakers from the opposition, I thought, So it's easy to make politics! Mr Pilz said in all the measures that are being taken that is abuse, that is to say, a breach of justice. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Not everyone!]] Mr Gusenbauer, Klubobmann, is an eternal messmaker. He says it's a mistake to expect. It's all made bad at all. It's done bad. That's your opposition policy! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Could you just cheer with me?]] If you listen to Mr Wittmann, you cannot believe that he was once the State Secretary for Art. That's almost unimaginable! He treats the Federal Chancellor so much from above and with a language that would not really be trusted with a former State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen! If everything were really as bad as the opposition it represents, then we wouldn't have as good data internationally. For example, we heard yesterday from the Minister of Finance that the budget deficit from 1976 to 1999, i.e. the 25 years among socialist finance ministers, was on average 3.1 percent of gross domestic product, while from 2001 to 2005 it was on average 0.9 percent. So this is better for houses, ladies and gentlemen! But what are you doing? They're just doing everything wrong and they're doing bad. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: You have to be able to count on that!]] Now you see why the turnaround was necessary. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] You, ladies and gentlemen, have today x-times spoken of the highest debt. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Well, of course! However, the foundation for this highest debt has laid socialist finance ministers. That's exactly why the turnaround was necessary! This Federal Government has set itself the goal of consolidating state finances in the long term in order to secure pensions in order to maintain the health system in order to give young people prospects to strengthen families. All of this is only possible if consolidated state finances are available. This long-term, sufficient consolidation of state finances, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, has remained your fault to the Austrians. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm coming to the art area now. In the field of art, too, it is necessary to keep an eye on budgetary policy. There have been no cuts in how this is again claimed contrary to the opposition. It must also be noted, however, that in view of fiscal consolidation, an increase in the art budget was not possible, because social expenditure and so on were necessary. However, it is ensured that the current art business and current art life, namely its standard, can continue to be maintained. Everyone who looks at this budget and everyone who looks at the art report and the activities that are set up knows that this country is extremely important to art. This is also good, because Austria, more than many other countries, is famous for art and culture. Not least, the economy also benefits from it and thus all people, workers and employers. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The 2003 Art Report is proof of the activity of the State Secretary. He has shown a wide range of activities in all areas, including the border areas mentioned by Mr Zinggl. He shows all the creativity that lives and is also promoted in Austria. [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] There have been encouraging priorities. Again and again, it is criticized that the increase in the budget for the whole goes to the Bregenz Schauspielhaus or Opernhaus. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, in fact art is state-owned, the federal government sets priorities where it is necessary. The fact that the Bregenzer Festival is of unexpected importance to Austria is quite clear: They bring tourists, they bring people who come not only to Vorarlberg, but to Austria, they bring a boost to art life, but also to the economy. That is why it is perfectly justified that a large part of this investment is needed. [[Abg. Mandak: But not if others starve!]] - Others don't starve, Mrs. Deputies. [[Abg. Mandak: Oh yes...!]] I now come to film promotion, which is really very important to you and us. There has been a constant increase in the Film Fund, in addition to the budget, €7.5 million has been earmarked for the Film Fund. We now have the Film Funding Act in consideration, which should lead to the expansion of film life and to the spread of discussions in order to enable real communication of all filmmakers. These are milestones, which are also set for the Austrian film, important impulses that are necessary to bring Austria to the forerman in this area as well. I would also like to highlight an integration project, or several integration projects, which I really find very commendable. In particular, disabled artists or artists are encouraged to make the topic of disability the subject of their artistic representations. For this there are prizes and exhibitions that are promoted. I think this is extremely important because there are incentives for disabled people to be artistically active, perhaps to make a bet and to achieve what they cannot find on the labour market, namely satisfaction. This is an initiative, Mr State Secretary, for which I am very grateful. If there's a bit of money left, please give it to this integration project! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I've already said that art is indeed a matter of the country. The federal government takes care of which objects are to be particularly financed. The Salzburg Festival is also supported. Unfortunately, under the socialist head of state, Salzburg – and this should actually be met by the Salzburg delegates – has shortened the funding of the Salzburg Festival and also made cuts in other areas. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is crazy!]] In part, funding for facilities in Salzburg is reduced by up to 60 percent. There you can really get rid of your frustrations, deposit your demands there, my dear ladies and gentlemen from the SPÖ! There your country's main wife has all the opportunity to influence. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to say: While many countries outside Austria are shortening their funding of art and culture – in the Federal Republic of Germany, for example, theatres and museums are closed – there is a very diverse cultural life in Austria. This budget ensures that this diversity and this intensity of art and culture can continue to exist.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e7999	The next speaker is Mr Pendl. I'd like to put the clock at 4 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e8017	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! Since Mr Lopatka meant that the future was black, I would just say that many Austrians, thanks to their policy for the future, see black. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Many people in our home country need the future, especially our children. This is precisely where your policy is: Savings in schools, savings at universities. I think you could prove here how to invest in the future. But, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to devote myself to part of this budget, which I heard yesterday from Mr Finanzminister and his State Secretary and today from Mr Chancellor's mouth, that everyone is actually happy that the posts of 14 000 public servants, I say now, have not been re-occupied. Ladies and gentlemen, at a time when the highest rate of unemployment in the Republic has been reached since the 1950s, such savings are being made in the public sector. – It turns out that 50 000 unemployed are more available in your government time alone. That means that the time is certainly not correct for labour market reasons. Ladies and gentlemen! I have already expressed it several times in this hall: The public servants of our Republic do excellent work in the interests of the Austrians! We should not always see them as a cost factor. I would like to thank all the public servants personally and on behalf of my group for their work, for their services. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It's, I mean, the wrong signal when the head of government comes here and says: As a result of the savings in the planning area, the last salary increases were actually paid themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, if we really appreciate public service in its quality – and even the Chamber of Commerce repeatedly expresses that this is of enormous importance to Austria’s economic location – then we must always consider that it is people we are talking about, that it is colleagues with their concerns, with their needs and with their wishes. I think we should agree in our appreciation for the public service. For it is a matter of course for all of us that the ladies and gentlemen of Parliament's management – regardless of how late it is – always do everything for us Members. I believe that today, in the context of this discussion, it is a duty for us to thank our fellow Members of the Parliament's Directorate very much for their support. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We currently have salary negotiations in the public service. I said it yesterday evening, and it has been a very long tradition that we – and we have always said so – had a carrier rocket in the house, so that we could also treat the salary. If all these are not just lip confessions, ladies and gentlemen: Let us give them a fair share of economic growth, let us give public servants what is theirs! I cordially invite you to do so, and I ask you to see the public service as a whole, not just as a cost point factor. Ladies and gentlemen! One thing has to be clear to us: Just as you scream into the forest, so it comes back. The political elections will show the outcome. ==References== In December, the Federal Staff Representatives' election will also be very grateful to the public officials for their treatment.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e8093	The next speaker is Mr Donabauer. I also set the clock up to 4 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e8111	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Representatives of the People's Procuratorate! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It's called: As you scream into the forest, the echo comes back. Now, when I hear the budget debate, the general debate, I have to say: I'm a little affected. I have hardly heard any constructive proposals from the opposition parties by the hour. It is in the nature of the matter... – No, Mrs. Colleague, politics is really not that bad that there is not even a grain of good! [[Abg. Silhavy: Yes, because you...!]] You have to admit that quite honestly once. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is in the nature of the thing that one has controversial opinions. But that there is in principle only a condemnation and a rejection, I believe, is not appropriate. It hurts the land and its reputation, and it doesn't honor you either. If you may still not get rid of your persistent criticisms, read today’s issue of a prominent daily newspaper. She says very clearly: ‘Budge experts praise Grasser’; Experts consider Grasser's budget draft to be realistic if financial compensation – and an intensive negotiation is currently under way – and the health reform is carried out and the economy also contributes to it. I believe that in this respect we are all called and demanded. First of all, a few basic remarks: I am pleased that the opposition of the Court of Auditors is praised, both President Dr. Fierce and President Dr. Moser – although not elected – are recognised. We also praise you, even though sometimes the raw reports come to the public somewhat quickly. [[in the direction of President of the Court of Auditors Dr. Moser]] That doesn't matter, the work is excellent – thank you! The People's Procuratorate: It is not the control body of Parliament, as has been said here today, but the People's Procuratorate is a body of Parliament that we choose and use. [[Abg. Scheibner: The Court of Auditors is a control body!]] Yes, I do. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] – I think that this work will also be discussed in the committees and enriched with many, many good proposals, so that we can hear a lot of interesting from there too. Take note, too, that this government has finally managed to deal with the past, such as through the continuation of the National Fund or the introduction of the compensation fund, a one-off in Europe that we have created in Austria, which is recognised and positive. That is something I believe we can and must rightly point to a good performance. It is also, I think, the time when we are talking about a successful foreign policy in this House. This government did not have easy to do when she began her work, her entry was accompanied by exclusion. We have managed to get us back to the centre of Europe today, to make many good proposals and to play an active part in the design of European policy, both the Federal Chancellor and the responsible Minister of State. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that should also be expressed and highlighted in the context of a general debate. In addition, I believe that this federal budget proposal for 2005, which will, at least, be approved, will also have clear approaches in view of the fact that today's question of the future has been asked, as we have just said. At the end of the next few years and decades, which will certainly be marked by major changes, want to design and shape. If we have managed, if this government has managed to do so, then that is, I believe, a very good approach to strengthening purchasing power in the future. As far as the tax reform is concerned, you can see how you believe it, but it is a redistribution within the wage and income taxpayers, but also to the enterprises, to the enterprises. We did it because we wanted to secure jobs and win new jobs, and that also succeeded. You see, you should also talk about these questions! In any case, if you want to show a little more objectivity, you will have a little more pleasure in your country, which you also have to represent here, and you will be working on the constructive development we are considering and wish to continue for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e8176	The next speaker is Mr Brosz. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e8194	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! First of all, come back to the excitement that existed before. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Look at Mr. Van der Bellen coming!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: He knows that there is a bad speech...!]] Firstly, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, it is a certain expression of appreciation if we wish the relevant members of the government to take their place on the government bank. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Not with you!]] That you always tell us that it is actually not necessary that they are there is your expression, but not ours. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch:... call and ask!]] If we said that, you'd probably be upset again. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] I can do something about Mr Schweitzer's suggestion: that this is a herb-and-rove debate that could be better structured. But it's probably not up to us that it's happening like that. On the fact that the chapters are better separated and thus more relevant debate, one can certainly discuss them in the presidential or in the framework of the Rules of Procedure. What our claim is: Members of the House are also able to determine when their issues are on the agenda. And the expectation that the Secretary of State can look – since he also has the list of speakers – when the cultural speakers and the art speakers of the political groups speak, so that they can take care of it and at least attend this speech, I do not know if this is such an exaggerated demand of the opposition! It is not by chance that we just, when we saw Mr. State Secretary Morak gone out, made a request, no, but just when Mr Zinggl wanted to give his speech on the art budget. I believe that this is simply a sign of respect in Parliament if one is also represented with the experts on the topics on which the speakers are talking. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I'm surprised that you're talking about respect!]] We would like to deposit this wish. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] This brings me to the subject of today's debate, namely the sports budget. We talked about this yesterday, we also agreed to the corresponding changes yesterday – now State Secretary Schweitzer is right behind me, now I see him badly – to the budget accompanying legislation. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Maybe make a request that he sit in front of you!]] We have also expressed our opinion in the Sports Committee or in the Budget Committee that we consider this to be a meaningful change. However, I would also like to mention the following. Mr Lichtenegger was very positive about what a great request came yesterday. I do not think this is uninteresting because I know the conversations not only from the conversations we are having, but also about the intention that has been made behind them. To sum up this again: It was the desire to shape these tied funds from sports promotion at least in parts in such a way that you have more flexibility to make better priority promotions. I also mentioned in the Committee on Budgets that I consider it intelligent not to make a comprehensive increase, but to use these spaces accordingly. If you look at the forecasts – also from the documents on the Budgetary Accompaniment Act – you can see the increases that are expected and which seem to have already been reached in some cases, in the area of the Austrian lotteries, on whose income is the special sport promotion: 2004 plus 7 percent, 2005 plus 5 percent, in 2006 and 2007 respectively plus 3 percent. If you sum this up, you get a plus of 18 percent in these four years. [[State Secretary Mag. Schweitzer: Look good!]] That's a lot, there's a lot of things going on in the sense, that's right. If one refuses that at least the existing structures should not be weakened and there should be no less there, and if one speaks of an inflation tax, one can also talk about it. But I think that the proposal you decided yesterday is a work by the Secretary of State, which is not so bad at all, which is in the background: In 2005 and 2006, there is a cover where the funds for the umbrella organisations and the ÖFB are frozen, which do not even receive the inflation tax. Not bad, if at least until 2006 you have the government perspective, you now have relatively much room to do something! You can think about 2007, you may not be in the government anymore, and then you can spread across the board again. As a result, the request is made in such a way that, from 2007 onwards, only the foundry can exist again, and then there is no way – at least if I take the request seriously, which has been made and decided – to focus on these funds. Now I say from the purely individual perspective of the State Secretary: Not so badly solved, all respect! From the point of view of sports in general and the question of whether there should be political design opportunities, there are better ways to solve this than simply to say: Be careful who's on the line then, 2007 for you to solve it differently again! As I said, in the short-term perspective you can get a lot of money, but longer-term, I don't really think. Above all, we should ask what tasks there are. If you consider it neutral: Is the sport really a step that can be positively assessed from the point of view of sports? You can also face a few other things. We have tried yesterday to compare the valorization of the care allowance with 0.25 percent over the last eight years with the 18 percent increase in sports over the next four years. I do not want the sport to get less money, but at least one can see that in other areas where one also talks about cost developments, there are considerably worse solutions and that there would be a lot to do. Or if you look at the schools and see what happened there in the field of lessons, what happened in the field of movement and sports education, then there is, I think, little reason to hit purple trees, how great the regulations that the Federal Government is doing. There is this part that is positive, but other parts can only be said: There are some failures that will be re-established in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e8324	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. Requested time: 5 minutes. – Mr Commissioner, you are on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e8343	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. State Secretary! Mr. Volksanwälte! First of all, I should like to say a word about the Volksanwälte and the Court of Auditors. Thank you very much to the People's Procuratorate for the services it has or has provided in recent years and also most recently for the Austrian population. However, I do not have so much time to address all things, both with regard to the Court of Auditors and with regard to the public prosecutors. As a member of the Sports Committee, I would like to highlight, as a priority in this budget debate, the promotion of sport in the 2005/2006 budget, with a focus on: € 40 million is spent; this is an increase of approximately € 2.8 million compared to the previous year. This increase not only ensures the sport of disabled people – as a social speaker of my group – but also the Austrian federal sports organisations that receive legal support in order to carry out their central coordination tasks. As much money as this time is being made available for sport, there has never been in Austria. In addition, the possibility of the support of newly taken-up sports associations is provided, and the 2004 Budget Support Act ensures financial resources for stadium expansions in Vienna, Innsbruck, Salzburg and stadium new construction in Klagenfurt – important for the 2008 European Football Championship – totalling € 15 million annually, which is also reflected in this budget. The Olympic Funding will continue to be significantly increased and from 2005 onwards, it will amount to € 2 million. This is justified only by the successes of Austrian Olympic participants at the Olympic Games in Athens this year. So that's well-invested money. [[Congratulations on the liberals as well as on representatives of the ÖVP.]] The action of Mr Schweitzer State Secretary “Fit for Austria”, an important action, can be further pursued. This series of projects focuses on the potential of organized sports in Austria as a service provider in the health system. Existing social and health promotion potentials are being exploited, new ways of reducing the cost of disease and relieving the health system are identified. All stages of life are recorded: whether in preschool, in school, in clubs, in sports clubs, in operation – up to sports in the second half. Ladies and gentlemen! It is an essential contribution to reducing the increased health costs through prevention. And the action “Fit for Austria” is a very important approach. The necessary precautions will also be taken for the 2006 World Sailing Championship and the 2006 Cycling World Championship. The Austrian Anti-Doping Committee and the WADA, the World Anti-Doping Agency, are adequately funded so that Austria can carry out all necessary anti-doping measures and thus make an essential anti-doping contribution. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to point out that it was a great success that, as a result of the new regulation of the gambling law in Austria, from 2005 onwards, sports promotion will receive 3 percent of the sales of Austrian lotterys, but at least € 40 million annually, i.e. an increase of 2.8 million, as I have already mentioned. It must be recognized, therefore, that in Austria there has never been as much spent on sports as it is now. Therefore: Persistence is worth it. Congratulations to the Secretary of State for Sport Karl Schweitzer on this outcome of the negotiations!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e8407	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Muttons. 4 minutes welcome. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e8425	Mr President. Mr. Volksanwälte! Mr. State Secretary! I am pleased that Art State Secretary Morak, also responsible for media, is now present – and obviously has followed Parliament’s pressure. [[Interlocutory remark by Secretary-General Morak.]] I would like to talk about the art budget and generally point out that we now have the highest budget deficit – without any impulses! From the art budget you can say: It is a continuation of stagnation at a low level. It is higher than 2004, but this plus is a unique special funding for the renovation of the Bregenzer Festspielhaus, i.e. no real increase. [[State Secretary Mag. Schweitzer talks to State Secretary Morak.]] Mr. Art State Secretary Morak, you rate your art budget as a good result. However, fact is... – Mr Schweitzer, do you want to share – or how? [[Interlocutory note by Secretary of State Mag. Schweitzer.]] They're always calling out! Mr. State Secretary Morak, you rate your art budget as a good budget. – The fact is that it is not. The fact is that you will not be able to give this year of art financial importance to that which would be due to it. The fact is that in 2005 less funds are spent on art than in 1999. The fact is that the government likes to adorn itself with the predicate “Kulturnation Österreich”. – However, the figures show a different picture: Thus, in 2002 the current government was worth only 0.78 percent of federal expenditure. – For comparison: Eight years ago, this was over 1 percent. On the self-image as well as on the actual facts, I would also like to say something about reality, and I would like to quote from a study in which it is quite lapidar: From the level of public expenditure on culture, the ascribement as a major cultural power cannot be derived. – Such a study by the Institute of Cultural Management. The cultural budget 2005 raises many open questions. Why does only one area benefit from increasing the budget – and why do so many others look through their fingers? You're right: Some actually run out, but many of them don't run out voluntarily, but just don't get any more funds. And these are mostly cultural initiatives that are critical and inappropriate. It is also clear why there is no increase in the basic remuneration for the Bundestheater, although a study supports the increased financial needs. This is very interesting: The Government, the Secretary of State for Art, is commissioning a study. And since the outcome of this study does not meet the expectations, they are put in a drawer and practised in displacement. Ladies and gentlemen! The financial situation in the federal theatres is serious. I think we should take note of their concerns and discuss them. I would be pleased, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, if you would publish this study and make it available to us. Another point: transparency – or maybe I should say transparency. In the field of funding procedures and permits there are delays of up to a three-quarters year. Funding contracts are not awarded more than one year, but this has always been announced. The art report is not – surprisingly – put on the Internet because it is – a health policy measure? – as you have replied to a question, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it is not appropriate to put long text documents and lists on the web. So it seems out of concern to be our eyes! Since I'm just in the middle of transparency, also the following is very interesting: I have put a question to you, Mr President-in-Office Morak, and I wanted to know which projects you will finance with your budget, at least with the money you have available for 2005. In reply to your question, Mr State Secretary, you mentioned only one project, and I am already wondering: What are you doing with the rest of the money? I'd really like to know! Perhaps you can still comment on it today. If not, of course there will be another question. In any case, I think that your answer to the question is a reluctance and a reluctance by Parliament. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This federal government understands, at best, the preservation and preservation of cultural policies. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Not even that!]] - That's right! – Now comes another point: the rejoicing. This government will not meet the requirements of the knowledge society with its precarious working conditions in the field of education, culture and work. There is no room for this in the budget, as this estimate for 2005 clearly shows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e8510	Now Mr. Volksanwalt Dr. Kostelka is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e8528	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! With regard to your very dense work programme, only three comments from my side. First of all, on behalf of the People's Procuratorate, I would like to thank her current chairman for the amendment that has already been adopted in the Committee and on the content of the fact that the People's Procuratorate has two additional posts, and from our point of view I should like to draw attention to the fact that we are giving up a very high-quality planning site at the same time, so that the amendment is so to speak neutral. However, the fact is that the number of complaints increases significantly, from an average of 9 000 in the year in which the current lawyers took over their activities, to probably about 17 000 in the current year. That is, if the trend of this steady increase persists, we will have to double the number of complaints at the end of our term of office. The House approved three additional lawyers for the audit activity last year, but each complainant is entitled to an answer, that is, to write at least one to two letters per case, which, of course, also constitutes a corresponding burden on the administration. I should therefore like to thank you once again for making our work possible, because we, which we very often fail the duration of procedures, do not want to slip into this problem ourselves. The second is that the composition of the People's Procuratorate in this House has been discussed again and again, again today. From the point of view of the Public Prosecutor's Office, we have here taken a very clear position by talking about the need to stick to the Trinity. Finally, however, it is of course the decision of the legislator, i.e. this house, which is being taken, and it is not the duty of the public prosecutor to wish for something there. But the House must be aware of what it wants. If, in fact, the current activities of the Public Procuratorate are to be maintained – in principle take any complainant who wants to be able to speak directly with a popular lawyer, not with any “representative”, not with an official, but with the public prosecutor himself – then another organization will not really be possible. The People's Procuratorate offers 250 spokesmen throughout the country, i.e. virtually every working day – and this cannot be done by a popular attorney alone! But, of course, there are, in international comparison, lawyers, ombudsmen and ombudsmen who never see a citizen. But this is not the Austrian concept. In this context, if we are already talking about reform discussions, I may add briefly that the public prosecutor's office has expressed additional wishes for good reasons, I think. This House has made out of the Federal Service through a number of decisions, which certainly has its good reason in individual cases, but it does not result in the Court of Auditors, but very probably the Public Prosecutor's Office losing responsibility. This means, for example, that a GesmbH imposes public-law fees, but that, as it does, this cannot be controlled by the public prosecutor, nor how such a GesmbH deals with the citizen. We would also wish that there would also be administrative complaints and shortcomings in the area of justice. We would also encourage the reimbursement of special reports, ladies and gentlemen, in this context. I believe that the Court of Auditors and the People's Procuratorate are a guarantee of quality for the democratic, civil and economic design of the administration, and I ask that we also make this possible through appropriate instruments. Third and last comment: The international activity of the Court of Auditors within INTOSAI is well known. In this context, I can tell the House that the Austrian Public Prosecutor's Office has also become the seat of the European Executive Board of the International Ombudsman's Organization and that, in the foreseeable future, Austria, together with Turkey, will be transferred to a public prosecutor's office, a Ombudsman's office in Turkey, an important contribution to the development of democracy in that country.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e8584	Mr Schweitzer, there is also a ban on telephone calls in here. And please do not turn your back on the speaker constantly – for 10 minutes now! I have already addressed you twice in this matter. Please, Mr. Volksanwalt.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e8608	Mr President. I'm at the end of my remarks.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e8635	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Controller. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e8654	Mr President. High house! Due to the short period of time you can only throw a few flashlights on some points of the Federal Chancellery and Supreme Organs. First of all, I would like to thank Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Morakganz, especially for the fact that a total of €13.3 million will be available for the press next year. (ii) the development of the Community's economic and social cohesion policy; These are sales promotions, the special promotion of newspapers, quality promotion and future security, i.e. the former promotion of journalist training. I believe that this is a very important point for the preservation of media diversity in Austria. Mr Morak's substantial contribution to the new funding, as I believe, is particularly important. Secondly, It must not be forgotten that the distribution of the former Central Statistical Office is an absolute success story. Statistics Austria takes in many orders, the staff level could be reduced by 20 percent. In particular, by replacing complete censuses with registers, only €30 million can be saved in this area in the future. Third point: On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I would like to thank the public prosecutors and the Court of Auditors very much. Both are particularly important institutions of Parliament. There is therefore also a small increase in the budgets, although unfortunately only a small one. Mr. Volksanwalt Kostelka has already pointed out that this facilitates the public prosecutor's work. However, I would like to comment on the comments made by Mr Mag. Kogler and Dr. Pilz already say that the Court of Auditors is not a committee of inquiry – and that it cannot be reworked by so long speeches. The aim of the Court of Auditors is to determine where there are shortcomings and what measures can be taken to stop them, rather than by force and by scandalizing any culprit. That is a wrong understanding of a Committee on the Court of Auditors! The work in the Court of Auditors will certainly be much better if all are committed to this understanding. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Fourth: One point I repeatedly address is the question of the Administrative Court. We know how long the procedures take, because it is simply not possible to provide so much personnel that there is a significant acceleration of the procedures. We can only really wait for a lot of cases to be settled and dealt with by the introduction of national courts. I am sure that Mr President Khol – also in his capacity as the Austrian Convention, which deals with the creation of a new constitution – will ensure that there is an improvement in access to justice for the citizen, because too long procedures represent nothing but a refusal to do so. In any case, I believe that there will be a relief by the introduction of national courts. Fifth and last points: There will soon be a remodelling of this hall here too. It will then correspond more to the modern parliamentary work. Personally, however, I would also like to point out that this hall has already become a certain architectural monument and that it has to be kept in mind in the design that, for example, the front of this hall will be included and preserved as an important building monument from the fifties. The intended architectural competition, I believe, will ensure that this is taken into account. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e8724	Mr President, I must be disappointed about your expectations, which are linked to the word'soon'. Many will not experience it anymore; I certainly will not. The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Grossmann. Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e8745	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr. Volksanwälte! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! You certainly remember that Karl-Heinz Grasser, in his budget speech, as we were used to, has put headlines together and then repeatedly repeated the chorus: The time of harvest has come. When you look at the numbers more concretely, it becomes clear who is allowed to reap and who is harvested. First and foremost, the government members may increase their representation costs. Grants to government members and expenditure on travel abroad are formally exploding. And a very interesting detail, my dear colleague, you will also be interested in this, is that the representative expenses of the President of the Federal Republic are being reduced at the same time. So I don't know if you'd taken care of this to your candidate. But anyway, it is. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] First and foremost, the PR agencies and consultants who apply for the brand “I” of the members of the government can also, and above all, the I-AG of the Finance Minister costs us a lot. The list of harvesters is also extended by the main clients of the government parties, the large corporations that can enjoy tax gifts to an exorbitant extent. We all know, not only the farmers among us: Before harvesting, we must sow. Only, ladies and gentlemen, those who have sown and processed the country, namely the mass of workers, go empty, because their burden and share of total tax revenue increases, while income from capital and assets is saved and an ever smaller proportion of the public budget. If you assume that the budget is a government's programme cast into figures, then your programme is quite obvious: Those who draw their income from work will be punished, and those who can afford to have capital and assets worked for themselves will be rewarded. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek]] Mrs. Brinek, this is your ideology. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If Mr Molterer and his colleagues are still proud of this, then tell the workers, because these are the true performance providers in this country! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you continue to browse the Federal Estimate, you will find yourself in an embarrassing way where you are putting on the spasm. For example, there is a radical reduction in the budget for the Racism Observatory. Minor expenditure is planned for the National Socialism Victim Fund, but at the same time interest income under this title. So you don't seem to expect it to come to a payout in the foreseeable future. They seem to wait until the last claimants have died. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: This has been clarified in the committee!]] Mrs. Colleague! The concentration camp memorial Mauthausen is also budgeted for almost half. I was particularly shocked because I accompany hundreds of young people from my district to Mauthausen every year. What is required for the political education of young people is truly invaluable and should ensure that this dark chapter never repeats itself in the history of our country. Since I want to save, I really don't think it's a very good signal, especially if you want to rush from a commemorative event to the next in 2005, and I probably don't have to pay for it.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e8806	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Sonnberger. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e8824	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr. Volksanwälte! High house! First of all, a brief replica on Mrs Mag. Grossmann. Given what you said about corporate tax, it seems that you really didn't understand what it was all about. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] It is about maintaining Austria's economic location and being competitive as a result of the EU's opening up. It is important that accents have been set here to secure jobs. First and foremost, it is necessary to have the jobs here in Austria. And then, of course, it is also about ultimately giving people additional income. The tax reform has shown that small and medium-sized incomes have been particularly relieved. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But now to my topic sports and movement. These are key elements of quality of life. According to socio-economic studies, each euro invested in sports saves the 1.7-fold in health and community. As a result, the increase in special sports funding for 2005 and 2006 is at least €2.8 million, and it could even increase. 20 years ago, the Sportverein was the main point of contact for sports enthusiasts. Individual sport in its unorganized form has in the meantime become a strongly growing segment. A bridge between club and individual sport will therefore be necessary, such as through the modernisation of the club's offers. In principle, we have a good infrastructure for the exercise of sports in Austria. Sports development and sports venue development are two topics that can be seen together. For the future, this means multifunctionality and flexible usage, taking into account new customer requirements. It is also a matter of raising the utilization of the respective sports facilities and of forcing activities for other uses in the event of poor utilization. For private sports offers on a fee-based basis, which also become more, quality assurance is necessary. In times of motion deficit, behavioural damage and overweight, sport is of particular importance to our young people, to our children. Therefore a warm thanks to the thousands of volunteer officials of club sports in Austria. There are very positive models to open the doors to the clubs in the schools. There is a need to continue working and to put these models on a broad basis. However, sports policy is always social policy. It is not only useful if our youth has a leisure activity, it also serves health care, but it also serves to learn social competence, the team spirit and much more. Top sport as an image factor is essential and has significant role as a model for broadband. The successful distribution of the Bundessportheime also deserves special recognition. Finally, I would like to point out the importance of sporting events and events and the diversity of sporting events. These need not only to relate to different sports, but also to address different target groups. They are therefore very touristic and therefore also economically significant. A thanks to the State Secretary and the staff. Live the sport, he makes us healthy and makes us hard to hide even some of the opposition's attacks casually. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e8885	The next speaker was Mr Jarolim. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e8903	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Sonnberger, I do not know whether it was quite useful for you to replicate what Mr Grossmann said in connection with the Köst, which we interpret differently and which the majority say that it is probably totally inappropriate to comply with the interests of the country. I would have expected you to comment on this Mauthausen scandal, on this reduction here, and to say why you think it is right that no money should flow into such an important organization just before the commemorative year. I mean, it's a shame that's looking for the same. I would have expected an answer from you, but not a replica to the Köst. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say a few words in the course of the discussion of the Supreme Institutions on the Constitutional Court chapter, and also in connection with the events in the Budget Committee, I would like to point out that we are here in a development which should probably make us thinkable. They all know the attitude of individual members of the government, in particular the Minister of the Interior, to the institutions of the rule of law, which was last noticed by the unique declaration in Europe – literally – that is: ‘What is right doesn’t have to be good.’ Ladies and gentlemen! “What is right doesn’t have to be good,” stated by a member of the government in connection with a knowledge of the Constitutional Court, is such a scandal that I am actually surprised that this Federal Minister for the Interior continues to exercise this function. I didn't hear a word of excuse either. I am now wondering where this internal homage and this peculiar understanding in Europe should really lead if we are to become aware that our own ministers are explaining – I would like to hear a word from you about what role the Constitutional Court should really play in this country: What's right doesn't have to be good. This is obviously the indicator of how the government parties imagine the rule of law. I already have a certain understanding of the fact that you are abated by the Constitutional Court because the Constitutional Court of that Organ is a mercilessly showing the incompetence that we are presented by you in the current legislative procedure. If the third time the Civil Service Act is repealed, one can already talk about a continuity of incompetence here. Whether you can be proud of it or not, it will leave you. But it fits together anyway. If you look at what Strasser has yet to do in this context, what the Constitutional Court of Justice has said no to - we are still talking about it in the emergency today - when it comes to the forced redundancies, where officials who did not want to do so were retired, because they simply did not fit the Minister of the Interior, and what the Court of Justice said: That's not possible, it's unconstitutional, then I understand that you might growl here. However, since, in the budget debate, you did not invite the Constitutional Court to take a position where we wanted to discuss all the public authorities, the Constitutional Court has written a letter to this House or, better said, to the Federal Chancellor's Office, because the Federal Chancellor was responsible for the fact that this invitation did not take place, which I read before: Letter from the Constitutional Court to the Federal Chancellery. Since a representation of the Constitutional Court in the Committee by its President or official administrator does not appear to be eligible, it is also willing to respond in writing. Ladies and gentlemen! I find it so embarrassing and think it such an misunderstanding of the rule of law that it is obvious from evilness that the members of the Constitutional Court are absolutely mouth-deaded by not being invited to ask myself that I really ask myself: [[Abg. May. Worm: Shut up!]] How can one speak here of a format, let alone of a rule of law? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I can really ask you: Show a minimum degree of respect for the rule of law – if not for the people of Austria, at least for the reputation of Austria in the European Union! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e8952	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Winkler. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e8970	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Mr. Volksanwälte! I'm allowed to address the public prosecutor's office in my budget speech. By the way, I am also convinced that the rule of law of Austria is still working very well. That just noticed by the way. Since the start of its activities in 1977, the Public Prosecutor's Office has proved itself to be an independent administrative control body, as the Austrian Ombudsman's institution. The development of figures shows that the public prosecutorship is a sought-after point of contact with citizens' problems. The popularity of this institution shows that in 2003 15 787 citizens have taken advantage of the public prosecutor's office, while in 2002 it was still 14,851. The trend is also rising in 2004, as mentioned by Mr Volksanwalt Kostelka. This increase is certainly also due to the weekly television broadcast on Saturday, as the Volksanwälte emphasizes, because it offers a unique opportunity for information and discussion for the lawyers in Europe. Due to high demand, 30 percent more speech was offered by August 2004. Letters to the complainant rose from 9 054 in 2002 to around 9 300 in 2003 and lettering to authorities in the same period from 5 100 to about 5 800. This fact of the much higher processing effort is also taken into account on a budgetary basis by the National Council by the approval of a establishment plan adjustment – and that is justified – whereby I may mention by now or do not wish to mention that, if I am properly informed, the number of female employees is more than 50 percent. The proportion of fundamental rights contained in the reports of the People's Procuratorate is also particularly significant, which unfortunately clearly shows how often violations of the principle of equality, freedom of employment, data protection law and violations of the human rights convention occur in our Republic. In conclusion, I should like to mention the very important suggestions of the Public Prosecutor's Office on their further development, such as the reduction of the period of information of the audited body to five weeks, the extension of the public prosecutor's authority to distributed lawyers and to community associations and the like. Thus, the People's Procuratorate could even better exercise citizens' rights. However, I should like to take advantage of the opportunity today to thank the three lawyers and their officials for their valuable and committed work for the benefit of our citizens. They and their officials can help many citizens to be just. They also make an extremely valuable contribution to the existence and success of our democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e9021	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Mulder. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e9040	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. Volksanwalt! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to focus briefly on two areas in the budget chapter of the Supreme Institutions. First of all, I would like to deal with the Court of Auditors. From a budgetary point of view, the Court of Auditors is able to maintain that existing resources are being used and managed very efficiently. It is also apparent from the budget reports that since 2001, the number of planning posts has not been increased and, as I have learned from the Committee, has not even been exhausted. The Court of Auditors is an important control body of Parliament which provides excellent audit reports and performance reports. But I would like to contradict Mr Neudeck, who has said today, that the Court of Auditors is increasingly under pressure. Not the Court of Auditors is under pressure, but the representatives of the government groups in the Court of Auditors are increasingly degrading this committee to a farce. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] They are hindering parliamentary control, because They are persistently refusing to load the persons required by the opposition, whose cargo is fully justified and rightly required, which does not allow for complete information. Dealing with your majority, that is, how you use your majority against unloving control, is for me an abuse of parliamentary possibilities. [[Abg. Neudeck: Check the Court! That's not an investigation committee! Look at the Rules of Procedure.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Another area I would like to discuss briefly is the Vice-Cancellor's Office. There are no own budget items for this purpose. Both the Federal Chancellery and the Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology are available for the expenses. Until now, it is not known how much this vice-chandelier's office costs at all. I have asked the Committee and have now received the written information that the Federal Chancellor's Office will pay for eight planning posts with costs of €330 000 and transfer this sum, but that is not the total cost. If you look at the homepage, you see, there are 20 people employed in the Vice-Cancellor's Office, which means that the costs must be much higher. For me, it is incomprehensible that there is an outsourced office of the Vice-Chancellor, available only for representation purposes. [[Abg. Neudeck: You claim that! You don't know that!]] That's what it's got until 4. ==References====External links== This has been a new facility since then. The second question, which, of course, arises: Why is it not possible to use the office structure of the Ministry of Infrastructure? Because it's there. This is also not understood by the Austrian people, who have to pay for these additional costs, which result, both for the office infrastructure and for the additional planning facilities that exist. And I'm not talking about the 7 000 € that the blue carpet of the vice chancellor has cost! For the population, this is an incredible provocation, especially in view of the high loads it is facing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e9099	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Long rider. Desirable time: 3 minutes. – You are speaking, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e9117	Mr President. Estimated honorary personalities on the government bank! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Back to the “news” of each chapter, especially with regard to jurisdiction. I know, of course, that, especially as regards case law and the highest courts, there is always a need for action on the expenditure side. Finally, however, as far as the Constitutional Court and the Administrative Court are concerned, it has been possible to comply with the rules on expenditure. In the area of the Constitutional Court, total expenditure is €0.4 million more. On Mr Jarolim's comments. – The Committee also discussed the right of representation of the members of the Constitutional and Administrative Courts. It has been said quite clearly that the Rules of Procedure, in the basic provisions on this matter, do not provide for anything in principle. Secondly, I can attend the presidential conference of the 8th century. In May 2003, reference was made to the fact that the proposal regarding the participation of the Presidents of the Supreme Courts in the deliberations in the Budget Committee on the Advisory Group on the Supreme Institutions, which is to say, by way of derogation from the practice so far, that the Presidents of the Supreme Courts themselves may not be invited to represent the budget chapter. This decision of the President-in-Office of the Council remains unchanged to this day; of course, Mr State Secretary, there is no question: [[State Secretary Morak: unanimously!]] This Decision was adopted unanimously in the President-in-Office. By the way, I believe that this has already been mentioned, that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany does not himself come into the committee and “treats” his own chapters. As far as art and culture are concerned, I would also like to thank you, especially as regards budgetary provision for this area next year. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for sponsoring events that, as he has said, concern rural areas in particular. And if Mrs. Müttonen does not know where the money is – that is what we can look at – I can tell you: The large jazz festival in Saalfelden will continue to be supported by the federal government, and the Secretary of State will continue to be well-willed towards this festival in the future. Finally, I very much welcome the fact that art and cultural promotion also takes place not only in the agglomerations, but also in the countries. All in all, as far as the budget is concerned, I would say: Upswing by excruciation and not, as the opposition always says, upswing with burden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e9176	The next speaker is Mr Prehauser. I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e9194	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Mrs. Partik-Pablé has used Salzburg as an example to show that public expenditure has been substantially reduced. But what it has not told us: that it belongs to a government coalition that has made sure that the countries lack vital resources for the future and that there are also savings to be made at their own discretion. So this is a very transparent story. Mr Langreiter, I would have expected you to answer after she has spoken to us together and we are together in Salzburg to form the government. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment on the areas of public prosecutors and the Court of Auditors. The President of the Court of Auditors is here with us. We have seen so many committee meetings in recent times. The last one is still in memory of all of us. That is to say, the last one didn't happen, because the government parties didn't appear, but I'm starting from the last. At that time, I understood that you were more or less interested in following our remarks, because of your self-understanding it was clear: That would not be necessary, you are anyway too little, what do you tell us?, when you vote you are in the minority anyway, so save this night shift! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we cannot spare ourselves these night shifts in the future when it comes to showing where injustice exists. If the Court of Auditors does a good job... – Mr Wittauer, listen to me! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] You really give me a right, believe me. So if the Court of Auditors does a good job, lists, shows up problems, and then prevents the coalition from questioning them, too, by not allowing competent people involved to be witnesses, it must not be surprising if the discussion is going to end up in this way. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: You don't believe what you're saying!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: This is not an investigation committee, but the Court of Auditors!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that it is really necessary to think about whether democracy would not be even more far-reaching than it is being lived here. And in connection with the People's Procuratorate, in order not to forget that, we should not discuss whether one would be better than three. We should consider the questions: Are three just the right number? Why don't we have four, for example? If I look at the power ratio here in Parliament, I think it could also be four to better distribute the work to 15 000 cases. I believe that this would achieve better efficiency. Ladies and gentlemen! Let us take our own democracy seriously! [[Abg. Wittauer: Let us not bend the Rules of Procedure!]] Let's take it so seriously that we also think about whether we're in a different situation next year, whether we're not. You yourself are in opposition and need to discuss among others – then you will grieve forever after the reign. Mr Wittauer, I see you crying today, if you are still sitting here, perhaps. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] In Tyrol-West, he will probably reach a mandate. – But then the discussion and howl will be great when it comes to exercising rights of the minority that are not present. Make sure you have a nice political life in three, two years, in a year!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e9283	The next speaker is Mrs Mikesch. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. – Mrs Colleague, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e9301	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Those who vote against this budget are against the sport. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Those who vote against this budget vote against the support of thousands of clubs and hundreds of thousands of volunteer officials in Austria. As my colleagues have already said, the special sport promotion alone will be increased to over €40 million. This will make money available to newly recognised sports associations so that the already excellent range of services can be further expanded and addressed to new trends. But it's not just about money. Only at one of the last plenary sessions have we opened the access of sports students and diploma trainers to new independence within the framework of a commercial regulatory innovation. We have thus brought many trainers out of a legal grey zone. You, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, once again disagreed. – By the way, this is a measure that benefits women in particular, because we have more women than men in this area. But back to the sport. – With the increase in sport promotion, this Federal Government is making a huge contribution to our economy, for our work and for our work. places. Thus, according to a study by the Federal Sports Organisation, a value added of approximately €5.4 billion can be assumed in sport. This ensures about 100 000 jobs in sport. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If I were like the SPÖ, I'd say, Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, with your No to endanger the budget You alone in the sports sector 100 000 jobs! – Thank God this federal government has committed itself to the promotion of sports! The economic effects of wide-ranging sport are still due to the re-road profitability of major events. At the upcoming cycling World Championship in 2006 in Salzburg, this is the case with a total of 600,000 visitors. This is a tremendous impulse for the region and for our tourism companies. It is evident that small and medium-sized enterprises in particular benefit from the tourism impulses of such events. The tourist value of the bike World Championship is measured by experts with 12.5 million €. In addition, there are effects such as increasing interest in cycling, increased paragraphs, advertising revenue and much more. We of the ÖVP confess to and support these major events. The highlight will certainly be the 2008 European Football Championship. Ladies and gentlemen! Sport is a particular concern for this Federal Government, especially the Federal Chancellor as a competent member of the government, and the ÖVP. But we also know the dedicated work of the officials. Some 496 000 volunteers in Austria do a weekly work volume of about 1 465 000 hours. This huge amount of work is compared to the output of 42 340 workers all day long for the sport in a fictitious calculation. Without volunteers, sports in this broad form, as we in Austria do, would not be eligible for funding. – A warm thanks to all volunteers, and our athletes I wish many successes.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e9368	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Posch. Confirmation time: 4 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e9387	Mr President, thank you very much for your speech. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: You really have to say that!]] - High house! To the budget two things: First: The budget for the Federal Chancellery is declining for 2005. That's commendable. There is only one increase in two points: expenditure on travel abroad. The service travel within the EU alone accounts for €240 000, a triple of €70 000 compared to the 2004 estimate – a triple! ................................................................................................................................ In addition to this, the posts for the service trips on the occasion of the preparation of the EU Presidency will amount to €95 000 again. There is also a 10-percent increase under the item entitled ‘Contributions to members of the government’. And – what has been discussed a few times today; In addition to the €6 million for the anniversary exhibitions, Mr Wittmann has also tailored it – €2.5 million in the art budget for the celebration of the Republic as well as €10 million for the Presidency, but in the form of excess appropriations. – It is by no means clear what this money should be used for precisely. In any case, one can rightly assume that there will be no lack of representation and self-representation in 2006. These expenditures have, by the way, been seamlessly linked to the Federal Government's jubilation and advertising campaigns since they took office, whose level is beyond the 70-million-€ limit. A billion schillings! A billion schillings! So a rather obfuscable sum in view of the savings budgets. So it can be said that, in terms of representation and apparently newly acquired autonomy, after years of autism, the hurt umbilical show can truly not be paralysed. The resources used for the working conditions of Members are relatively modest against this effort. 5.7 million € for all parliamentarians are relatively modest. It is also striking that the funding for the Monitoring Centre for Racism has been reduced, almost half of the funding. – Wherever the question must already be allowed, whether this is the late venge of bullets on the activity of the observation centre for racism or whether this is the basis of another need. Or the reduction for the Mauthausen Memorial. That too is a very interesting question. Or the question of the Constitutional Court. – The question of material equipment should already be raised in view of the variety of procedures and their complexity, because the Constitutional Court plays an enormously important role, as has been shown in many things in the past, also in the Topography Regulation. By the way, the FPÖ Partyman of Carinthia is disavowing the Federal Chancellor today by saying on the issue of the town board, on the topic of minorities: The hurry of German Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel to convene a so-called consensus conference on questions of bilingual town boards in Carinthia is absolutely premature. The attitude of the FPÖ Carinthians, namely that there is no further bilingual local panels in Carinthia, is absolutely unchanged. – So much for this and for the findings of the Constitutional Court, which is why its President Korinek has also urged, with a knowledge of finding, the possibility of complying with the rule of law – compliance with the rule of law! – to force against inactional or weak governments. - That's a very important thing. One word on the art chapter, which is a very small chapter in all, is only € 225 million, of which the largest part is for the Bundestheater, namely € 133 million, so that under the title promotions only € 87 million remain. It is not exactly legible to these figures, which goals the Federal Government pursues with its art and cultural policy at all, or whether such goals exist at all, because overall this art policy only becomes anecdotal, if about all three directors complain that there has been the same approach for the Bundestheater for six years and that they feel little respect for themselves. Or when it comes to the “offering sacrifice” or to that kafkaesque scurricular cabinet, to the museum director Wilfried Seiel, the Emperor-friend and Morak-Mäzen, this Baroque-friendly version of the “Commissario Brunetti”, who travels to Friuli, makes own investigations on his own, in a just too grotesque-naive way: In view of all of this, you have to ask yourself if such a person is suitable to conduct the largest Austrian museum. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: No!]] Not to mention the illegal accounting, unaccompanied travel expenses, adventurous financial speculation and other benefits. The question of what art and cultural policy is in the face of this shameless consolation of private and public, such as in the free service contracts or in this unapproachable history with the company Museums Collection, where the managing director was Dr. Seipel, by the Art History Museum, whose director was Dr. Seipel. Or the purchase of these ancient Egyptian tombs. – All of this is much more exciting than the actual budget chapter art, because here everything becomes visible about the importance of the art and cultural policy of this bizarre, anecdotal heart manovsky-Orlandosian curiosity cabinet. On the other hand, the white figures and also the kind lobby of ÖVP for Secretary of State Morak fade.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e9444	The next speaker is Mr Zweytick. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e9463	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! [[Abg. Oillinger: Please send an answer to the Seizel!]] Before, Mr Cot: There's no reduction in the memorial station you mentioned here. But you should know better; They were in the committee, too. There, too, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has personally discussed this. I don't know where you take it, that there is a reduction in the means of the memorial of racism. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek:ösvolent claim!]] This is simple and simply untrue, Mr President. You have to say this very clearly and clearly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It is already the second day that we experience that many of the things said here, as far as their truth is concerned, are more often to be questioned. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: The Federal Chancellor...!]] You, Dr. Jarolim, in particular, are bringing in things that have not lost anything here that does not correspond to reality, and which this budget does not deserve either, because this budget has a huge amount of inputs and intensive work in the committees, brings with it real serious discussions with the figures, and because – and this is crucial and important – it will bring decisive progress to the country, a decisive impulse, a so-called upturn for the next two years, and will also bring about. This is crucial, and this is also the responsibility of this government policy, which has been in place here in recent years with a success rate, the policy of a government which today can afford to take these steps for tomorrow and the day after. The only thing you hear from you, on the other hand, are destructive opinions that sometimes end up in polemics – unfortunately God. Anyway! My contribution will also focus briefly on sport promotion. It is here – and this should be stressed here too – a significant increase in a budget not too large. And you know: Especially in small areas, great help double, it doubles for people and the population in that country. It is a “strong piece” that has been achieved here by the Ministry of Sports, especially the State Secretary – by our Federal Chancellor briefly called “Förder-Karli”. We can be proud of this because it benefits people in this country. [[Abg. Gaál: There must be very modest!]] – This has nothing to do with modesty. It is particularly useful for the disabled in this country, and essentially for the large sports projects in the coming years. You know that sport in this country is a very emotional issue, in which hundreds of thousands of people are actively involved, but also in the economic field. A good rerouting profitability in this context has already been addressed by my previous speakers. I would also like to thank the State Secretary and his team very much for this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Of the major sports projects of the coming years, I do not want to list all, but very few: The ski-flight world championship on the Kulm – because that's right in the Styria, where I come from – is an important story. But the final goal is in 2008 the football European Championship Austria-Switzerland. [[Abg. Wittauer: Biathlon World Championship! Ice hockey World Championship! European Championship! And almost everything takes place in Tyrol!]] In the four years to the European Football Championship, there is a wide range of top sporting events in our country Austria, which are also an advertising that means advertising for the “Mark Austria”. There is also the responsibility of a government to put their cards, our cards – the “Mark Austria” – on the table in Europe. The comparison, ladies and gentlemen, makes us sure. The sports budget also deserves the approval of the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e9591	The next speaker is Mr. Dr. Herbe. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e9609	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Thanks also to the staff of the Court of Auditors for their performance, for their work in the interest of the taxpayer! Just, ladies and gentlemen: The result of this work is at risk! The President is also not to be envyed: After a few months in office, he is faced with a real crisis of control, because the Court of Auditors as the body of the National Council is disassembly disassembled! I will now give you two examples. Sad celebrity has gained the incident – Mr Kogler has described it – as the Minister of Finance has resorted to recommendations against the Court of Auditors by means of an opinion. [[Abg. Wittauer: That was bending the Rules of Procedure!]] And what the summit is, dear colleague – it was white hound and cynicism –: The Minister of Finance is there today and praises himself and his supposed good cooperation with the Court of Auditors. So that's really the last thing: He is concerned about opinions against the Court of Auditors' recommendations and here in Parliament he praises his good cooperation! [[Abg. Parnigoni: “Schizophrenism”!]] But, ladies and gentlemen, this continues, also in the countries: Mrs. Landeshauptmann Klasnic himself called the Court of Auditors to Causa EStAG – and now you do not match the result! [[Abg. Grill: Who says that?]] What is she doing? – She gets two opinions, one from Ernst & Young, one from any legal expert, and says literally: Well, the group A says this, the group B says that. . So this is really strict, and the President will certainly find clear words to that effect. It cannot be said that the Court of Auditors is a group that recommends anything, and then there are the experts. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grillisch: That was a shaker applause!]] This fits well in your pattern, Col. Grillitsch: In the Convention, there is the impetus of the EIAs that the countries should, in a way, control themselves – and therefore, of course, the Court of Auditors would be greatly weakened. Please note: This approach is strictly rejected by the SPÖ, which is energetic! I recognize that FPÖ has also argued in this direction. Of course, this has several reasons: This has methodological-organisational reasons – of course, the Court of Auditors needs cross-sectional knowledge, it is also about personnel resources, ultimately about economic efficiency, effectiveness and sparingness – but it also has control reasons. I mentioned the example of Klasnic, but let's take the case of Carinthia: So, please, there is the National Accounting Court Director of the State Government bound to order! – Under these conditions, in these conditions, it is not possible to control the countries of national accounting courts! Some national billing court director – we know that too – comes directly from the cabinet of the respective head of state. [[Abg. Neudeck: This is not the case in Vienna!]] So please leave that as it is, and take back, ladies and gentlemen, this simply mistaken proposal! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] But here in Parliament, too, control work is at risk. The reports are stacking. The President-in-Office is quite desperate. Six, seven different reports have been dealt with for a long time. Dates are prevented by you, ladies and gentlemen from being rejected by the ÖVP and the FPÖ. You fear the control, you refuse to control, and it does not matter to you to put democratic principles at risk. Of course, you suffer credibility and prestige, but that's what you're trying to say, in Styrian. Mr Khol does not support Parliamentary control as the top parliamentarian. [[Abg. Wittauer: Yes, the President does not begin to criticize! ... a cowardice!]] No one in the House can still give me just one example where President Khol would have made himself strong for control in this Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen! If you are so grateful to the staff of the Court of Auditors, you should remember that the Court of Auditors has been demanding a new right of service for years. But then gratitude stops very, very fast. So support this – or else you will save yourself the Thanks-Lobhudelia towards the Court of Auditors! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e9727	Mr Herb, you know very well that I cannot express my views on your attacks from the Bureau. I'm just telling you: My task is to preserve the Rules of Procedure. [[Call at the SPÖ: That's also good!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] [[Abg. Steibl: It should be so, only: If the colleague believes herbs...!]] The next speaker is the President of the Court of Auditors, Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e9773	Mr President. Dear Secretary of State! Dear Mr. Volksanwalt! I am particularly pleased that today I can be in this House for the first time in the new office as President of the Court of Auditors, not only because, as I believe, I have been able to say, I have spent some of my most beautiful years in this House, but also because, in several speeches during this debate, the work of the Court of Auditors has been very positively mentioned and, of course, the quality and performance of the staff of the Court of Auditors have also been appreciated. I think it is known to all of us that the quality of the Court of Auditors' staff, which, with the correctness of the arguments, is included in the Court of Auditors' reports, leads to the implementation of the Court of Auditors' recommendations and, of course, to the fact that the Court of Auditors can actually carry out its tasks in the best possible way, in accordance with the federal constitution. The Court of Auditors, as I understand it and as the employees understand it, is the lawyer of Austrian taxpayers, that is, he has to ensure that taxpayers' funds are used in the best possible way, and, of course, he is also advisers to policy makers. For me, however, it is also of course – especially as the budgetary consultations are taking place today – that the Court of Auditors must expect in the eyes of the public. This means that the benefits of the work done by the Court of Auditors are clearly recognizable. The present budget, which is included in the 2005 budget, provides for expenditure of €24 605,000 for the Court of Auditors, with an increase of 1.39 percent compared to the previous year. However, with this, and I would also like to point out, the Court of Auditors has an increase which is clearly below the general budget increase rate. The fact that the Court of Auditors is therefore interested in the consolidation of the State budget and also wants to take part in a balanced budget also shows that the proportion of the Court of Auditors in the overall general budget has fallen in recent years. It is true, for example, that in 1999, the Court of Auditors still had a share of 0.040 percent of the general budget and now has a share of 0.038 percent. With reference to the general budget of the Federal Government, the proportion of the Court of Auditors since 1999 has fallen from 0.030 percent to 0.022 percent. I have therefore mentioned this in order to point out that expenditure included in this budget estimate is, at least, necessary to enable the Court of Auditors to carry out its tasks in the best possible way in the future. In this context, I should also like to thank all of you very much for having adopted an amendment in the Committee on Budgets, which will enable the Court of Auditors to fully fulfil its international commitments in 2005. I would just like to mention that the excellent reputation of the Court of Auditors, which he also enjoys abroad, leads us to be a member of a number of Task Forces, Working Groups and Committees – I think the Court of Auditors know that – the to develop and promote international directives and standards in the field of public financial control. In this context, however, it should also be stressed that the Austrian Court of Auditors is headquartered by the General Secretariat of the International Organisation of the Supreme Audit Authorities, INTOSAI, at least as a member of an organisation belonging to the Courts of Auditors of 185 countries, and a forum setting up a forum to discuss the issues of public financial control from all over the world, as well as to monitor the latest developments in the area of financial control and the technical standards to be applied and in best practice. As the General Secretariat of the above organization – which must be made aware – Austria thus has a hub function in the context of financial control through the Austrian Court of Auditors and also has the opportunity to be the starting point in international financial control by this organisation in the future. High house! Today, it has been mentioned several times that control rights are, of course, an essential part of the discussion under the Austrian Convention, and I would like to thank you for the fact that the founding committee has come to know that control rights at federal and national level are being strengthened. It is also true that, for this reason, the Court of Auditors has made several proposals in Committee VIII, i.e. the competent control committee, aimed at resolving existing control deficits, creating legal clarity, reducing bureaucracy and enabling more up-to-date reporting. In this context, I would just like to point out that one of the demands of the withdrawal is the condition of the minimum number of 20 000 inhabitants for the audit of municipalities by the Court of Auditors, because it is currently the case that municipalities can only be examined by the Court of Auditors from the point of view of a population of 20 000, although some small communities have a higher budget volume or far higher financial debt than cities subject to the control of the Court of Auditors. In this context, I would also like to point out that I think it is necessary that the Court of Auditors should also have the audit competence for companies in which the public sector is involved by 25 percent – and not, as is currently planned, 50 percent. Such a reduction ensures that no escape from control can take place and that costly, time-consuming procedures are avoided before the Constitutional Court for the purpose of examining the state of control that would only allow the Court of Auditors to examine. In this context, I would also like to stress, for example, that the federal states of Styria and Burgenland have already reduced the need for participation and that these national accounting authorities therefore have an audit competence for undertakings with a 25 percent public participation. As regards the most important proposals made by the Court of Auditors, I would like to point out, as regards the need for more up-to-date reporting, that I would consider it necessary to shorten the three-month period of opinion laid down in the Constitution to six weeks. High house! I am looking for you – especially since I know and I have also suffered in this House that the control competence does not always have the value or the strength, which they should actually have – that these proposals, which serve to strengthen the control right of this House and that at the same time the flight from control cannot take place, will be given increased attention in the future under the Austrian Convention. [[I should like to congratulate the liberals, the ÖVP and the Greens.]] In this context, however, I would also like to point out – without being pre-potential – that only the Court of Auditors can carry out cross-border audits of the public sector as a whole and that, I would say, these audits are necessary in order to take into account the needs of a macroeconomic balance as well as the coherence of the financial economy of the federal, state and local authorities. The audit competence of the national accounting courts alone is certainly not enough because their competences at the national border stop. A restriction of the Court of Auditors' jurisdiction in the countries would therefore lead to control deficits and negative financial consequences within a short time. As a significant example, in this area I refer to the use of public funds from the various public cash offices, which repeatedly leads to discussions, namely in the health sector, and especially in the hospital sector, at the hospitals. However, an efficient and effective review of the hospitals cannot stop at the national borders, but it requires a national view or networked examination procedure, which can only be carried out by the Court of Auditors as a cross-border audit body. High house! In the future, the Court of Auditors will continue to have to meet your expectations as a legislative body, while at the same time fulfilling the function as a taxpayer of taxpayers. Therefore, the core processes of the Court of Auditors are currently being evaluated with the full cooperation of the staff and the training is put on new feet. The aim of these projects, which we are currently working together, is to increase the reliability of the selection of audit topics, to deal with audit processes more targeted and faster, to optimise resources, to make reporting more timely and up-to-date and to reform training in order to fully meet the requirements of the Court of Auditors in the future. High house! The Court of Auditors – and I can assure you this – will continue to strive in the future to carry out its tasks optimally within the framework of the possibilities available to it, and I would like to point out, on the current occasion, as the debate also raised several times, that the Court of Auditors has no interest in the fact that preliminary examination results are available to the public, and that, on the basis of the current legal situation, it is expressly committed to safeguard the confidentiality of the legislative body until the report is submitted to the legislative body. The Court of Auditors therefore makes every effort to ensure that preliminary examination results do not reach the public, which is why coding and closing rules are laid down. Finally, I would like to ask you to support the Court of Auditors in its work in the future and also to criticise it if it is constructive and takes place at a time when the Court of Auditors also has the opportunity to comment on it. This is not the case if a preliminary examination result is discussed in the public and it is forbidden to do so because of the obligation of confidentiality. This is the first time that the Commission has been Instead, a constructive criticism of the Court's statements should be made when the legislative body's report has been forwarded. The Court of Auditors is not afraid to face this criticism and is always pleased to be able to discuss the issues constructively. I would like to thank you once again for the very positive words you have found to the Austrian Court of Auditors, and I hope that I will continue to have your confidence in the future, as well as in the Court of Auditors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e9896	The next speaker is Mr Marizzi. His welcome time: 3 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e9914	Mr President. My esteemed Secretary of State! Mr. Volksanwalt Kostelka! Mr. Volksanwalt Stadler! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! The President of the Court of Auditors said that he was the taxpayer's lawyer, so I would like to refer to the public relations of the Federal Chancellor's Office at the moment. Of course, we have looked at this very carefully, and I am also referring to a parliamentary question which has been received here in the House a few months ago. In reality, ladies and gentlemen, this Federal Government, in particular the Federal Chancellor and the Finance Minister, has adopted the fetish zero deficit, which has finally dissolved into air. Then, after yesterday's debate, you have to ask yourself the question – and I will also mention a few figures: Why did the Federal Chancellery actually apply for the zero deficit? – This is on the one hand the real world, and on the other hand the virtual world. The Federal Chancellor's Office spent €1.8 million in 2000 to apply for the zero deficit, regardless of the Ministry of Finance, regardless of other ministries. In 2001, Mr Scheibner, the Federal Chancellery approved another €2.2 million and applied for the zero deficit again. So in total, the Federal Chancellery has spent €4 million on tax money for the virtual world to apply for the zero deficit. A second point, because I only have three minutes... – Yes, you can speak quietly, because you are no longer present in the virtual world of Mr. Federal Chancellor. [[Abg. Neudeck: Do good and talk about it!]] Your election results in the last elections actually spoke volumes. [[Abg. Neudeck: And yours were so good!]] - We won five times. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let’s go to the “net” pension reform! In the last pension reform – you never know in which pension reform you are – the Federal Government, especially the Federal Chancellor's Office, has also spent €4 million, for a folder €340 000, for ads €1.2 million, for commercial spots and TV spots €250 000, money for another folder, money for a special magazine. Another €4 million for the virtual world! Do you know what reality is? – The real world, Mr colleague, in which you are no longer present. [[Abg. Scheibner: In the “virtual” you said!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Look very real!]] Come to the next elections I'm sure you won't be able to believe that anymore. You have achieved one, ladies and gentlemen, of the government parties, namely that you have spent €4 million on pension reform advertising on one hand, but on the other hand the ASVG pensioners have received at least 10 percent less. Women have been the sufferers in this pension reform. At this point an appeal to the President of the Court of Auditors: He is supposed to investigate the situation – that was said yesterday – that in the end almost €70 million has been spent on consultants and advertising of this government. Mr President. Check whether this information is actually an information or whether this information is an advertisement for this government! You have now said that you will investigate current cases. You should really examine current cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e9996	The next speaker is Mrs Schasching. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e10015	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! In all short and speed: In the large black and blue mosaic, the 2005/2006 budget, which increases the deficit and promotes social reduction, the increase in resources for sport is a small, luminous mosaic. I would like to acknowledge this, and I would like to congratulate Mr Schweitzer on this. It took a long time, because the SPÖ had been demanding corresponding adjustments for many years. However, I use it for myself and for many others to make a contribution to the good discussion climate and to constructive work in sports policy. So we can be proud of the result together. Perhaps because of the rejection of our request in June by Minister of Finance Grasser and the subsequent Olympic successes, it was a little embarrassing in the public, so that one has decided to provide for an increase in funds after these successes. – Be it, the success has many fathers and even under some circumstances mothers. Let us now implement this positively together for Austrian sport. Now we are going to the implementation phase, Mr. State Secretary. Further top achievements need basic conditions: a healthy structure of the associations – that is on track, the motivation of volunteers – that is best done by financial grants, so that people are congratulated not only in the year of honorary office, but also in order to find a suitable basis for their work. Trainers, trainers, their training and funding, this is an important point. We have also done something about this, the State Secretariat has also done something about it. Unfortunately, the fact that our successful trainers still deserve a bet is still far too little known. Sports venues are also an important point. Large sports venues and stadiums are needed. However, these have a utilization of perhaps 100 days per year, which is certainly not an optimal utilization. But what we need to pay attention to is the many small sports venues. That's where the club life takes place. They are largely in the hands of the clubs and associations that need to be preserved and maintained. Small example – what we need to achieve excellence –: We are all delighted by the excellent achievements of Austrian swimmers. The fact is: In Austria there are exactly three swimming halls with 50- Meters. Markus Rogan alone has three training pools at his university, which have exactly the same length. There is a need for re-examination in this respect. I remember the ice rink. We have a single regular ice-swift run, but also an Olympic winner. With two eyes pressed, the ice-speed course in Innsbruck is still valid. All these are points and considerations on which work must continue. The funding base for Austrian sport has now developed satisfactorily. What is made of it in the future, I will not only observe critically, but I will be very happy to continue to contribute in the sense of organized club sports. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e10066	The next speaker is Mr Steier. Speaking time: 3 minutes. Three speakers have spoken on this chapter, and the vote will take place shortly before 3 p.m. [[Abg. Parnigoni: What vote?]] Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e10095	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Mr. Volksanwalt! High house! The previous discussion can be summarized with the following words: Sport beats art, Schweitzer beats Morak. The fact is that we all like to be with the winners, so I can devote myself to sport and address Mr Schweitzer, the Secretary of State. The year 2004 as the so-called European Year of Education through Sport has brought to the fore the central importance of movement, play and sport for the physical and mental development of children and young people. In view of numerous media reports and alarming data on the health risk of children and adolescents due to lack of movement, it was also high time for this. In the light of the relevant website of the government on the European Year of Education through Sport, numerous interesting projects can be found. In addition, initiatives such as “Fit for Austria”, “SportKids”, “Fit for School” and others were launched. In the school year 2004/05 the most movement- and sport-friendly school in Austria is to be sought and found. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! At first sight, this is a fairly good balance sheet in conjunction with the increase in the appropriations for sport for 2005. However, for the sake of sport fairness, the following facts should not be mentioned: There can be no mention of the day-to-day gymnastics in school, to which the Secretary of State also acknowledges himself. Even the cuts in the gym hours have not been compensated. The European Year of Education through Sport also tends to end. It will thus be shown whether the priority objective of the initiative can also work and be achieved beyond 2004, namely to raise public awareness of the importance of sport in education and to promote physical activities in school. Ladies and gentlemen! The State Secretary will have the proof of truth whether and how he can contribute to the daily gymnastics in all school types. The Ministry of Education is currently negotiating motions for action. We Socialists, however, dare doubt that, in view of the general decline in expenditure on education, sufficient resources should be available for daily sport. The Secretary of State for Sports will also have to demonstrate how he wants to support the movement of the smallest in all the kindergartens of Austria, throughout the federal territory and to the same extent for all children. The Secretary of State for Sports has mentioned in the Budget Committee that €1.5 million is available for the donation of pilot projects for more children's activities. The fact is that in Carinthia a project that has been provided 100 000 € from the pot of the special federal sport promotion is to be realized, with 2 000 € being made available for 50 children. Mr Schweitzer, State Secretary! The latte is therefore relatively high, which leads to the provision of all children with this promotion of motor skills throughout the Austrian federal territory. If your commitment to more movement for healthier children is serious and all of the children of Austria are to benefit from it, then you will have to take much more funds into your hands. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e10153	The next speaker is Mr Faul. He too speaks for 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e10171	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Dear Secretary of State! Before I say a few words about sport and the initiatives, I should like to make a fundamental statement on Mr Pack and Mr Wolfmayr on Herberstein. The Social Democracy in Styria is not against the outsourcing of cultural goods into regionalities, we have never said that. We are very interested that something can develop in this beautiful tourist area. However, what we have in mind is that Mrs Landeshuptmann, in her role as a cultural representative, climbs the grave obstacle of Mrs Herberstein and, out of an absoluteistic understanding, grants funding from there, past all the bodies and decision-makers. [[Abg. Miedl: That's not true!]] That's what we're against and we're defending! It can't be that Mrs. Landesbührer, in her role, is getting up to the countess and distributing money. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly, Mr Schweitzer. Because you mention the initiatives for young people and toddlers in the sports sector each time, I have to say: The following was an interesting experience for us: We both have requests to Your place of business, in the end also to the Ministry of Education, asked how to finance it. We have – and this is quite interesting – come up with the following: that both the State Secretariat and the Ministry declare themselves incompetent in this regard. That means: Her will, also Mrs Gehrer's will, is there, but unfortunately we do not yet know who to pay for it. Those who actually pay for this are the communities – we outside! We mayors are left, we are left with the burden. Mr. State Secretary Morak, in view of the increased budget resources that you hope will not be turned off from the Federal Chancellor for any representative sports major events – today there was a bit of the impression that the Federal Chancellor is there and is taking again – I would ask you to devote some of this money to the early promotion of children, to this youth education. The projects you have already tried in experiments should be extended throughout Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e10217	The next speaker is Mr Reheis. He too speaks for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e10235	Mr President. Expensive members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! How are you doing with this budget? [[Call the ÖVP:Super!]] Do you feel the same way you communicate it here, incense scattering, positive, or are you doing so, as your former colleague Cordula Frieser, for example, in the last issue of the “Hohes Haus” program? – I should like to remind you of this very briefly and quote it: When I think of my personal situation, where I am a professional tax advisor, how often I had to agree to laws, especially tax laws, where I knew from my expertise that they did not bring anything to the State or to the taxpayer, which at best was suitable for increasing bureaucracy. And there have been a lot of such laws, which have then also been repealed because they were simply impracticable, and that is also a problem. - Quote. This is really a problem, ladies and gentlemen, and it's in your ranks! The opposition always alerts you to these shortcomings, but you wipe them away with a dash. Mr President, Mr Morak, I would also like to say a few words on the basis of the Federal Theatre. Although they have undertaken and set themselves the goal of increasing the budget, you have obviously not succeeded in this area. I do not really wonder, because to the question put by my colleague, Mr Muttonen, in committee, whether one cannot enforce the appropriate means for the basic remuneration for the Bundestheater, the Chancellor replied that the budget targets formulated from the perspective of the competent State Secretary are not feasible. Mr State Secretary! It looks as if your budget targets were actually to be included in the realm of unrealization. This is actually sad, especially in this area, when you know that, for example, the folk theatre, the castle theatre and other theatre are in extremely difficult financial situations. This situation is also due, among other things, to the basic salary, which has been frozen since the outlay in 1999 to € 133 645. I heard, Mr State Secretary, that there is a study commissioned by you, in which the accusations are also made, namely that there is an increased financial need for the Bundestheaters. Where is this study? Mr State Secretary, please inform us and tell us what recommendations will be made in this study! I also ask: How can our Bundestheater fulfil its cultural mission in the light of the complex financial situation you have caused? I hope you can rework a lot within the budget, because in the end there is also the risk that this will unfortunately have an impact on artistic creation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e10271	Now, Mrs Fleckl is speaking for three minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e10289	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! High house! My previous speakers have already mentioned it: One can only talk about a moderate art budget because the federal government has had the investment to renovate the Bregenzer Festspielhaus. If there were no such investment, we would have an art budget of €80.3 million and thus a stand below that of 1999. If one involves inflation in this account, then it will almost become embarrassing, miserable for the art budget, Mr State Secretary, because the share of the federal cultural expenditure in total expenditure has been in constant decline since the last few years. [[Interlocutory note by Secretary of State Mag. Schweitzer.]] – Mr Schweitzer State Secretary! If you have anything to say, you're welcome to speak. It's a bit disturbing. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] These are facts, Mr. State Secretary Morak! Even if you always claim the opposite, here it is black on white to read. However, where you do not save, this is in your own interest in public relations. Prestige projects, ready for media use, put them in the foreground and sell them as your great art promotion policy. I only mention the Styrian artists who can sing a song here. The Gironcoli Museum, for example; my colleague Faul has already mentioned it. Mrs Wolfmayr! I would just like to draw your attention to this: There, funds intended for spatial planning were deducted and flown into Herberstein. The head of state has decided on more than € 5.8 million alone. [[Abg. Grill: That's wrong!]] That is a fact, we cannot ignore that, even the Styrian state government, says: the opposition there. Where you can promote your clients, where the applause of the parties is safe, where you can present yourself to the public as open-minded, generous and modern, you also have an open hand as regards subsidies. Let us remember the processes surrounding the “diagonal” or the example of the Capital of Culture 2003! Full-bodiedly, you have promised the organizers funding of € 18 million, transferred only € 14 million, and another promised million has never arrived at the operator company. This leaves many questions open as to what your subsidy policy is. – A lot of promise, nothing kept! I appeal to you, Mr State Secretary: Do less care about private jets, less about your own birthday celebrations, less about service cars, but simply make sure that the federal government does not gradually withdraw as a promoter! Save countries and communities the debt you have in fact to answer! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e10339	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Mr Special Rapporteur did not wish a final word. We shall now proceed to the vote, first of all we shall vote on the opinion group I of the Federal Proposal for 2005. This includes Chapters 1 to 6 of the Federal Proposal in 650 of the Supplements as amended by the Special Report in 670 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. – adopted unanimously. We shall also vote on the advisory group II of the Federal Proposal for 2005. This includes chapters 10 and 13 of the Federal Proposal in 650 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, therefore decided by a majority. It is exactly at 3 p.m., so I interrupt the negotiations on the 2005 federal proposal so that the required treatment of a urgent request can take place. Request for urgent procedure by Dr Eva Glawischnig, colleagues in the Federal Minister for the Interior, on repeated scandalous disregard for the rule of law by the Minister of the Interior (2282/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e10399	We arrive at urgent procedure for the written question 2282/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e10580	I give the floor to Mrs Glawischnig as a questioner on the grounds of the question. Your word can take 20 minutes. Has Mr. Strasser already arrived? . I interrupt the meeting until the arrival of the Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e10607	I'll start the interrupted session again. We now come to the urgent debate on the question, and I ask Mrs Dr Glawischnig to take the floor. The speaking time is 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e10634	Mr President. Federal Minister! - I'm glad you're here. Suspiciously, always start at 3 p.m. You should know that. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Typical!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The ÖVP and the Federal Government together have a big problem, which we have been observing since February 2000, and that is the question: How are critics dealt with? How are dissidents dealt with? How is it dealt with those who are not allowed to join? How will it deal with those who are critical, especially the existing Federal Government? How's clientel going? – That’s another question, and we’ve experienced a lot here for the past five years. We have experienced open colours at the ÖBB, at ÖIAG, at the main association of social security funds. We have experienced that independent officials from the Ministry of the Interior have been forced to retire. We have experienced how opinions on laws of independent institutions, such as the Court of Auditors, are dealt with – I refer here as an example of the ÖBB reform – or how criticism is dealt with when it is formulated that a law may be unconstitutional, is illegal. All of this leaves a very, very clear conclusion to: The ÖVP, especially in the government, has a problem with critics and critics. On the other hand, something is being done. I have now mentioned some examples, I do not need to refer to the ORF and to other examples where radical overcoloration has happened. The fact that we have to take the opportunity to make a urgent request to the Minister of the Interior is another step forward. I admit that we have already experienced all that I have now mentioned with other governments, but what has now happened is unprecedented. That screams for Enlightenment, that screams after a urgent request from the National Council. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The principle “whoever is not for us is against us” suddenly finds in a suspicion against an interior minister a downfall that is devastating, namely the suspicion that politically motivated persecutions against critical lawyers from the human rights field have actually been approved by the Interior Minister; not only have he known but also been approved. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] We have not yet been able to observe that. This is a new dimension that goes beyond the limits of the rule of law. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What was the occasion? We will have an opportunity to discuss this in detail. The reason was that investigations against two renowned human rights lawyers were conducted and criminal charges were made on grounds of suspicion of tow and suspicion of a call for disobedience to the laws: And that on the basis of a very, very thin situation, if one can even talk of facts here, and that against the background that precisely these people have been engaged in human rights in Austria for months and years, that one of these people is even a question of “SOS Mitmensch” and that the other person has fought the asylum law of the Federal Government of Schwarz-Blau in front of the Constitutional Court. Minister of the Interior! I have to ask you some very precise questions about this whole of Causa, because I think that the suspicion of politically motivated persecution, as amnesty has also made him very clear internationally – ai has said that all the elements of the usual political persecution, as we know it internationally, are realized – that this accusation put into space cannot stand that way after the controlled throughforest of life areas of two people to find something and thereby criminalize and defamate it. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's exactly what you do! Those are allegations in the room!]] I would ask you to answer our questions as precisely as possible. Enlightenment is urgent! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You have to imagine what that means for the future. What does this mean in the future for people who criticize the Federal Government, who are involved in some areas, and who also call some things very, very clearly by name? What does that mean for – I don't know – the “mothers against nuclear hazards”? – Do those who in the future also have to focus on the fact that their lives are being researched through, politically motivated, whether one finds anything that can be attached to them? [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: You're exaggerating!]] - I'm not exaggerating! [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: Oh, yes!]] Mr Innenminister, I would like to ask you precisely: How do you get to this accusation? What happened? How could it be that an official of your ministry is talking about politically motivated inquiry requests from your cabinet? How can it be that a newspaper can write “so that something can be attached to them ”? I ask you: Why did your cabinet want to attach something to this? Or isn't that right? How did all of this start? Who ordered that? How did all of this come about? How's it going? How long has it been determined? Who has even given the order to find out? What were the clues? In both cases, has there been a prosecutor, an investigating judge who in any form commissioned these investigations? How do you evaluate the fact that these were very, very thin results? I would like to read to you about these criminal offences. The one against the lawyer Bürstmayr is exploitary tow: ‘Whoever, by being deceived by the possibility of residing in a State as a foreigner or pursuing an authorised activity there, is tempted to enter a State unlawfully and to pay a fee or to commit himself to the payment of a remuneration shall be punished with imprisonment for up to three years.’ This is a very serious offence, a very serious accusation. I think you have studied Jus once, and what we learned in criminal law at the time is: Every single one of these words, each one of these facts must find a match in reality, must be subsumed under the circumstances so that such an ad can be made. How do you judge that in this case, Mr Bürstmayr, in particular, the promotion of a fee, i.e. proof that there is an enrichment plan, has not even been claimed that there is not even any precipitation in this case? How do you judge this with colleague Lorenz? I have the act in front of me now. These are copies of press releases from “SOS Mitmansch”. The act has one and a half pages. I would like to quote one sentence from this statement: Mrs Mag. Lorenz calls on the Federal Minister for the Interior to do something against the acute danger of chain deportations. – As you, as a lawyer from this press release, can room a criminal record, I cannot understand it at all. That's absolutely hair-throwing! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: She asked to hide refugees!]] On the basis of the facts, Mrs Fekter, you cannot explain this to me, on the basis of the fact that an attorney is making asylum and human rights advice and distributing business cards for this purpose, because of towing at the prosecutor's office, is displayed by the Federal Criminal Office. – In addition, the procedures have all been set up or have not been determined at all. I would like to continue: What is your role and the role of your cabinet, Mr. Federal Minister, and how do you, above all, keep it with the truth? When exactly have you been informed about these investigations? They were sent to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on 27 July. On October 22, you were on the verge either. ==References== It was informed of these investigations in October. This is what the FORMAT writes, and you say it yourself. Now you have to look at the other side. Advocate General Bürstmayr delivered his Opinion at the sitting of the Fifth Chamber on 28 March 2001. September, almost a month before, learns that he will not be appointed to the Commission's Board on Human Rights again because of the business with the business cards, and soon thereafter, namely, on 12 September. October, an e-mail sent with the request for information. You have written back, please contact my staff, and in “Cc” you have also written, I ask for information. I assume that this request for information was aimed at your staff informing you as well. ==References====External links== October, lawyer Bürstmayr informed that the suspicion of the tow is about him and is being determined against him. Either you do not inform your employees, even if you expressly order it, or you have said the untruth in the Committee on the Interior. I don't know, but I'm asking for information. When exactly did you learn about these investigations? A second thing in this context. In this act, with this one and a half-page act, there is a strange reference, as is found on the top of these copied notes from this press release by “SOS Mitmansch” – on the verge of saying that there were ministers of the interior, who were members of “SOS Mitmansch” and did not have to be identified against their concern – a strange reference, namely, “Thank you, Webinger”. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] – Mr. Webinger is this employee in your cabinet, who was obviously entrusted with the matter and whom you asked for information. Now I'm wondering, What does this note “Thank you, Webinger” have to look for in this act that has gone from the Federal Criminal Office to the public prosecutor’s office? What does Mr. Webinger thank you for, your cabinet staff? [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: Where did you get this?]] What does this Mr Webinger thank you for? [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: Where did you get this?]] [[Abg. Oils: Do you ask where she's from? It's in the newspapers, and you're asking how she's got it! That's incredible!]] Does he thank himself for allowing the Federal Criminal Office to prosecute human rights lawyers? Thank you for that or what for? [[Abg. Kößl: Did you write “Thank you, Webinger” on it?]] [[Abg. Ollinger: That's incredible!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Greens.]] What do you need to thank for this? How do you explain this connection of thanks from your cabinet for the fact that a persecution of human rights lawyers is taking place? I would ask for precise information here. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] You have not answered a question either, even in the course of the public debate. They have re-appointed all the Commission leaders of the Human Rights Commission, but not Mr. Bürstmayr. However, after your presentation at that time when you refused to order it, you did not know anything about the suspicion of towing. So why didn't you want to re-order him? Or is this all a terrible contradiction that you've been involved in? And if the investigations have been stopped anyway, I ask you: Why don't you order it now? Subscribe You may not have him now because he's just bothered you because he filed this complaint before the Constitutional Court? What kind of picture does this make of an interior minister who no longer re-orders someone who criticizes him for an independent office? What does this mean for your understanding of the rule of law? By the way, I have copied to you Heinz Mayer what the rule of law actually means, and one of these important principles is that you respect decisions made by independent judges, effective enforcement of law, that you do not disagree with it, and that you also accept the rules of the game in a constitutional state. You don't. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Maybe you better understand it, too, if you formulate the opposite. The opposite of a rule of law is the police state, and I believe we do not want to develop there. [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: Here you go! What do you want to say, Mrs. Colleague? What's that supposed to mean? Does that mean Austria is a police state?]] Minister of the Interior! I still have a question, a whole complex of questions: Lawyer's order. How do you see that these investigations threaten very important fundamental rights in the area of client protection and also legal protection? If lawyers are put into a climate where they have to be afraid of being persecuted, where to question their clients, where to present them photos, what, do you think, means for all the rules such as law enforcement, confidentiality obligations, confidentiality rights et cetera? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The law also applies to lawyers!]] Don't you think that's extremely problematic? By the way: Are there new investigations now? Are there new investigations against these two lawyers or are there investigations against other persons from the human rights field? Maybe you can tell us something. Minister of the Interior! The thing is very, very serious. I really find it immense to live in a state where such a thing is possible. It's also legal professors like Professor Funk said they're shocked, and I'm shocked that's possible. I am shocked that our amnesty in Austria must report to amnesty internationally, it has the suspicion of politically motivated persecution of lawyers in the human rights field, in the asylum field, in one of the most sensitive materials that exist at all. I am extremely shocked about that, and I expect you today to have complete information about these incidents. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is not the first time, but we have had difficulties with you in the past as far as your rule of law is concerned. While in the first case I have to demand very precise, correct information, in the second complex I simply have to realize that in some areas you have very clearly removed from the ground of the rule of law. A few examples of this. [[Abg. Scheibner: These are immense accusations! That's what you need to prove to us!]] - I'll explain it to you in a moment. I believe we agree that, in a rule of law, in a constitutional state, the Constitution lays down the rules of the game, how standards are developed, how they come about, and that it is one of the important principles that there is a separation of power here that the Constitutional Court has to interpret what the limits of the Constitution are. And if the Constitutional Court finds something out, I believe that both the administration and the simple legislators have to comply with these restrictions. [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: Do it! But criticism must be allowed!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: A personal opinion may even have a minister!]] So far I have only experienced this from Carinthia that one questions constitutional court knowledge. What did you do? – I now only take two examples from the recent past. First of all, the Asylum Act: In the run-up to the asylum law, it has been strongly criticised that it is unconstitutional, illegal to human rights. Not only Austrian human rights organisations and experts have found this, also the UNHCR, the High Commissioner for Refugees, has noted. You still decide with your majority. The Minister of the Interior defends it massively and claims that it does not agree. Then the Constitutional Court takes up essential parts of this law. [[Abg. Kußl: 95 percent have been confirmed!]] What would you expect? Then at least one would expect a repair. The UNHCR has meant that the goal is to reopen a fair asylum procedure in Austria. What's the Minister of the Interior doing? The Minister of the Interior goes here and shows with his finger to the countries that have brought in the Constitutional Court of Appeal, shows with his finger to the Constitutional Court and says they are now to blame that a wave of refugees will flow through Austria. I'll tell you: That's hair-throwing! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] There is a VfGH knowledge on the back of people with false facts under the motto “Hold the thief!” instead of taking note that we are living in a rule of law in which the VfGH has something like a final decision on the boundaries of our federal constitution. The second example – similarly shocking – is the Civil Service Act, the Civil Service Act, which concerns a very important question: What are the key tasks of the State? – The Constitutional Court has said that this area is so sensitive, this is about the general obligation of military service, here cannot be privatized and outsourced. This is a legal position to be accepted by the Constitutional Court. The Minister of the Interior is above the Constitutional Legislator, the Constitutional Court and the Constitution, because he is entitled to say what is good. He says not all that is right is good, too. But I'm asking you: Then who determines what's good? I don't know, dear God or the Minister of the Interior? [[Abg. Scheibner: Are you bringing those to one level, these two rulers?]] It can't be that way. We have to stick to these rule of law rules, otherwise this is the end of democracy! – I know you have a problem with critics, but if you move away from these rule of law, you move on to very, very thin ice. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] A third example, because it concerns so many people, these are civil servants. This, in turn, is a recognition of the Constitutional Court of Justice on the question of the commitment of civil servants per day, and of the Constitutional Court of Justice... – No, I quote constitutional court decisions here. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Is there the right of free expression or not?]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: What kind of democracy do you have?]] I quote decisions of the Constitutional Court here. The Constitutional Court of Justice has found that it is possible to orientate itself to the sentence for basic defence servants when it comes to civil servants, which is €13.6. [[Abg. May. Molterer: We don't let you dictate who says what! That's a terrible thing!]] The Minister of the Interior has reduced this figure to €6.4 in ignorance. I think that is a great thing, Mr Molterer. I think we can already agree on one thing: that highest court decisions... – Mr Klubobmann Molterer, you can then get out of here and justify why an Interior Minister is talking about constitutional court knowledge. [[Abg. May. Molterer: (in the direction of Green) This is a political understanding, that is revealing!]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] [[Abg. That's not true! This is an untruth!]] Yes, of course that is true! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I can give you other examples, such as the diffamation of the UBAS, the independent federalasylsenate, with the phrase “This is an authority that can do and leave what it wants.” This is a public discreditation of independent judges. [[Abg. Kößl: But he has freedom of expression!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Look at what the President of the Federal Republic has already said about...!]] Don't you have a problem with that, Mr. Klubobmann? I have a problem with that. Such attacks to independent judges are unbearable. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I conclude by saying, Minister of the Interior: I wonder what's really going on with you. I have been watching you for a long time now, I have observed you for the past four or five years and have also experienced you in situations in which you have acted very correctly as Minister of the Interior. This was especially the case at the beginning, when you behaved very correctly at the demonstrations. But since then, I have determined a steady walk to the right. I don't know who Your political model is, or where you want to land sometime. You can see an incessant change. I think that the internal administration of a state, especially the monopoly of violence, the police, are very delicate and sensitive areas, and I have the impression that you have no longer grown in this task.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e11093	To answer the urgent question, the Federal Minister for the Interior spoke. His speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes, but it is 36 questions to answer. We will see how much time is really necessary for that. Mr Federal Minister, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e11115	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I'd like to apologize that I came two minutes too late, although I was here in the house, I just overlooked that it was already at 3 p.m. I'm asking you to check this out. For your inquiry: This is a very serious matter, and stated openly: You have to comment on your allegations in detail. [[Call the Greens and the SPÖ:Yes, yes!]] First point: Her accusation: the suspicion of political persecution. I would like to hold here for the High House: Mr Pilz would have given another speech instead of the name Bürstmayr the name of the head of state Dr. Haider. Then you would ask that, if information reaches the Office of Ministers, these will naturally be passed on to the Court of Justice for review, as it means in Austria in the Federal Office of State, and that the Federal Criminal Office will then hand over to the Court of Justice the things to be evaluated, just as it has happened, as has happened repeatedly. Only because now Dr. Haider is not the state captain there, but Mag. Brushmayr, it's suddenly different from you. I have to tell you: All people in Austria are the same! If there is a hint to be followed further, we have a very clear statement from the Office of Ministers that everything is going to be... [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That's what you're doing! That's a joke!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e11152	Mr Jarolim! They have said “frozeny ” and“ frivolity. ” I'll give you a call for order.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e11178	Therefore, we have the instructions that all such documents which the Office of Ministers obtain will be handed over to the competent authorities for the purpose of determining and by these authorities to the courts for legal assessment. That's our work! That's how we're going! And we will continue to do so, no matter who it is. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Who believes this?]] [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: scandalous!]] Second point: May. Bürstmayr and Human Rights Advisory Council. To this end, I can say very clearly and clearly: There are six commissions for those who are not exactly in this area, and for each Commission a chairman is to be proposed. There are five proposals which are unanimous. There is a proposal which is not unanimous. This proposal is the proposal in question. There is a practically equivalent candidate who is female, and I care for that where I have to decide to handle it so that if there are equivalent candidates, the female candidate is to be given the preference. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Oils: Ah!]] That is why I asked for a new proposal from the Human Rights Advisory Council to be drawn up. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: scandalous!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Third point: Constitutional Court. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Your answer is inconceivable!]] I can make this clear again and again [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Say something to Schnabl!]] The findings...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e11316	Mr Wittmann, you are now making an intermediate call for the fourth time. Get in touch with me then! [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Where's the number of calls you can make?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Please, Mr. Federal Minister, continue!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e11349	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) To the Constitutional Court: It is a matter of course that the findings of the Constitutional Court are not only to be respected, but... – honourable Members, perhaps listen to me, it is quite interesting statements of opinion that you made earlier, and I would like to offer you my arguments. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig speaks to Abg. May. Kogler.]] The Constitutional Court is an institution for itself in Austria, and this institution and no one else decides what is right. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Not for yourself!]] That's to be respected. But then, if there is something that the Constitutional Court sees different from the Parliament or the Ministry, it is of course a task and a task to comply with the findings. We will do that in every form! [[Abg. Oellinger: You didn't say that!]] However, my job as Minister of the Interior is also to point out the consequences of the knowledge and the resulting new regulations. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's it!]] In this context, I should like to say quite clearly: ==References====External links== May 2004, we have a drop in the number of asylum seekers by almost 40 percent. [[Abg. May. Worm: Obviously unconstitutional!]] I shall mention the exact number in my answer to the urgent question. At the same time, however, we have an increase in the positive results of asylum procedures by about 16, 17 percent to 49 percent. That is, those who need asylum get it faster and faster than before, but those who do not get asylum at the end of a often difficult path see that there is no way for them to go this way here, and this results in asylum seekers no longer coming to Austria to the great extent. The system has proved itself largely. We will, of course, comply with what the Constitutional Court has submitted. Of course, we will take a closer look at the written knowledge that is not yet available and, after the written findings have been made, make our proposals. To the Civil Service Act: It is to be respected when the Constitutional Court says that other units have the opportunity to decide, but not at the Civil Service Agency. We will find a solution that is in conformity with the Constitutional Court's word. However, we will do everything we can to ensure that the high quality of service – the rapid settlement for all the stakeholders we have achieved in the meantime – is achieved in the new form provided for by the Constitutional Court. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I can now come to answer your questions in detail. Question 1: The initiation of the investigations is in the case of Mag. Bürstmayr on reports from the Security Directorate of Lower Austria. In the Mag case. Lorenz were published texts on the Internet and in print media. On question 2: There were no orders on my part. Question 3: As you have correctly quoted: I have experienced such investigations on the brink, but I am basically not interested in details of investigations. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: When exactly?]] This is the case of the BKA, and I have not, in such cases, fully introduced a reporting obligation. This was not so in these cases or in other cases, because the BKA determined for itself and presented the outcome of its investigations to the public prosecutor and the investigating judge for legal assessment. [[Abg. Oil: Pontius Pilate!]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: When?]] Question 4: The head of the 3.6 office in the Federal Criminal Office, the central office for the fight against tow crime. Question 5: In the case of Mag. Bürstmayr lasted from May 2004 to 11. In October 2004 the case could be sent to the competent public prosecutor's office. In the Mag. Lorenz did not make any investigations. From the knowledge of the publication of the texts on the Internet and in the print media to the transmission of the case-law's presentation to the prosecutor's office it took about 3 weeks. ==References====External links== He was sent to the Procuratorate in October 2004. On question 6: In the case of Mag. Bürstmayr of the head of the 3.6 office in the Federal Criminal Office and in the case of Mag. Lorenz the Head of Division III in the Federal Criminal Office. Question 7: No, no, no, Question 8: It is not the responsibility of the BKA or subordinate bodies to examine the criminal relevance. The transmission of a case for criminal assessment to the public prosecutor is therefore a routine process. On the question 9: This is a routine process of the BKA, as it happens every day. Cases which may constitute a criminal offence shall be transmitted to the Public Prosecutor's Office for assessment. Questions 10 to 14: ==References== In October 2004, the Human Rights Advisory Council was invited to present a new proposal for the management of one of the six Commissions. ==References====External links== A meeting was scheduled for November. The outcome of this meeting is awaiting. That the prosecutor put the ad back to me was on the 21st. ==References====External links== Afterwards, I was informed of a search of the “Falter” in this context, with the request of the Advisory Board for a new proposal relating to the transmission of a case-law presentation of the Federal Criminal Office to the Public Prosecutor’s Office. Question 12: The prosecutor's office did not agree with the Federal Criminal Office of the recruitment according to § 90 StPO. Questions 15 and 16: The content of the facts is not known to me. Of course, I assume that the officials of the Federal Criminal Office have written correctly and in full. [[Abg. Oil: Pontius Pilate!]] On the question 17: The Federal Criminal Office and the Ministerial Office have acquired knowledge of a text. This text contains elements that showed a competence of the Federal Criminal Office. Information of this kind will be forwarded by default immediately to the competent authority, in this case to the Federal Criminal Office, for further guidance. The Federal Criminal Office has forwarded this matter to the Public Prosecutor's Office. The Minister's Office was informed of this. It is a routine process regardless of person or/and function. Questions 18 and 19: [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: He thanks himself for showing the facts...!]] This seems to be a standard courtesy and greeting formula. [[The ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] Question 20: An asylum seekers were interviewed twice. On question 21: No, there were no surveys on the mandate relationship. The surveys are limited in the case of Mag. Brushmayr on the incidents on the Austro-Czech border. On the question 22: No, no, no, According to the information available to me, there was no personal contact between the asylum applicant and the two lawyers until then. Question 23: Yes. Question 24: No, no, no, Question 25: No. On the question 26: There was an ad in 2004. On the question 27: Between January 2004 and September 2004, 18 762 asylum applications were submitted. This represents a decrease of more than 23.63 percent during the period under review 2003. In the period from May 2004 to September 2004, 9 690 asylum applications were submitted from the In-Force-Treats of the Novel Asylum Act. This represents a fall of 37.4 percent during the period under review 2003. The press release of the Constitutional Court can be found that the second sentence of § 32a(2) and Article 5a(1) of the second sentence have been deleted. This does not give rise to any appeals against certain decisions, thus significantly increasing the attractiveness of an asylum procedure in Austria. This represents a major pull factor and unfortunately gives rise to the forecast that the number of asylum applications will rise again. On the question 28: The Constitutional Court has, in its so far orally announced knowledge, abolished three points of the contested provisions and the ban on innovation to a small extent. The jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court will, of course, be observed in the re-codification of the Asylum Act. For the repair of an repealed provision, the Constitutional Court shall have a period of 30 days for the legislator. ==References== By Decision of the National Council of 21 December 1998. In October 2004, I was invited to submit a government paper which, in compliance with the European and constitutional requirements, includes a rapid examination of applications for criminal asylum seekers and, where appropriate, their deportation, a ban on asylum abuse, an improvement in the scope of the asylum law and a clear commitment of an asylum seekers to the identification of asylum proceedings. I shall, of course, comply with this request and this mandate. On question 29: The EU Directive on minimum standards for the admission of asylum seekers was adopted in the Federal Law No. ==References== On 4 April 2004, the Federal Ministry of Social Security (Federal Ministry of Social Affairs and Social Security) announced that the Federal Ministry of Social Security had been established in the Federal Republic of Germany. Furthermore, the competence beyond it lies with the federal states, with which we have also concluded a basic supply agreement. The deadline for implementation of this EU Directive expires on 6. ==References== I assume – and I have also mentioned this at the national conference – that the countries will by then take the necessary steps to implement it. Question 30: The number of federal care places was increased from 2 300 places in 2000 to just under 11 000 places at the end of April. Now, after the conclusion of the Article 15a Treaty and the cooperation between the countries and the federal government, we have received 26 500 refugees and asylum seekers in Austria. This is more than a tenfold increase compared to the situation in 2000. On question 31: Compliance with the Refugee Convention shall be ensured by the proper implementation of asylum procedures by the asylum authorities. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: That's a shame! Unbelievable!]] The EU Directive on minimum standards for the admission of asylum seekers is for the Federal Republic of Germany. In January 2005 the Federal Insurance Act was fully transposed. Nevertheless, I think it is essential that asylum seekers should be accommodated in agreement with the communities and citizens concerned. On questions 32 and 33: The Federal Ministry of the Interior, subject to a significant increase in output in the completion of the proceedings, as well as a streamlining and evaluation of the internal procedures, has granted the UBAS staff support. To date, ten administrative practitioners have been given additional support to the Senate members. Further personnel allocation is possible. However, there is a need for a substantial increase in performance, which is currently not foreseeable. By the way, comparison with Switzerland is not directly possible because the systems are different. On question 34: Of course, as already mentioned, I will take into account the recognition of the Constitutional Court and develop a constitutional system that can continue to guarantee the high standard of service of civil servants. On question 35: It is not a question of how high the claim is, but of whether there is sufficient legal determination. The corresponding provision of the Civil Service Act was considered constitutional by the Constitutional Court. On question 36: As in the past, in close cooperation with the Federal Chancellery/Constitutional Service in particular, we will discuss and take into account constitutionally relevant questions in the run-up to the sending of assessment drafts. That's the style of our house. We will continue this style.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e11632	We are now going into the debate. No speaker has more than 10 minutes of speaking time in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Each club has a total of 25 minutes. The debate opens up to the honourable Member. Stoisits. Your desired and legal speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e11664	Poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Wouldn't it be a very serious matter, Mr Federal Minister, what has been here in recent months – not only in recent months, but also in the past! – has happened, always in connection with your person, but not with the person Ernst Strasser – as Ernst Strasser, you can be found sympathetic or less sympathetic; this remains for everyone – but with you as the Minister of the Interior of this Republic! I am not speaking to you today as Ernst Strasser, born in Grieskirchen, but as the Minister for the Interior of this Republic, who is sitting at one of the most important points in this Republic, which is to preserve the rule of law. [[Abg. Großruck: Grieskirchen!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Thank God!]] They are – and so we have formulated this in the request to you – to a large extent responsible for ensuring that the rule of law is respected in this Republic, and above all for maintaining confidence in the rule of law. [[Abg. Kößl: Guarded!]] But what are you doing, Minister of State? – This type of response to 36 as specific questions as we have asked them is the best proof that you are in the position where you are, as Minister of the Interior, simple and simply unable to fulfil your role! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That is precisely the consciousness, Mr Federal Minister, the awareness of what it means when I sit at one of the stations of this country's power, which runs over the citizens, when I sit with a rule of law and with an attitude towards the rulers Organs of this country, as you do not only now, in the last 20 minutes, since you have talked, but for months – over years, you have to say – have always and repeatedly demonstrated, you are missing. Mrs. Dr. Glavischnig has cited many examples. One of them is for me the most symptomic in connection with refugees in Austria, namely the decision of the Supreme Court, which has not yet been mentioned here today, in which it concerns the care of refugees, and with what “smoothness” you have overcome this knowledge, this judgment at the time. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Federal Minister! I'm telling you in all clear terms: The situation is serious for the rule of law, with this Ernst Strasser as Minister of the Interior. It is, however, serious, and especially for hundreds, if not thousands of those seeking protection in Austria, when it is determined in a way against lawyers who – and this has been clearly underlined by your response to the question – are referred to as a routine by the Minister of the Interior of this Republic! Yes, that's the most dangerous threat I've ever heard from an interior minister's mouth! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] When amnesty international Austria turns to London and this case, the Bürstmayr/Lorenz case, as a case of political persecution with concern – with concern! – reports – and you know, now that you have been faced with the urgent question, of course, the concern expressed in this letter – but you are talking about that being all routine in this country, then amnesty will, if the routine is and continues to be stressed by an interior minister like you, report your routine actions weekly, perhaps daily, to London, Minister. I've heard you talk here many times, and we've had many times Requests here, but such questions – and these are questions about the attitude to the rule of law – are simply to ignore in your salary, that is new! I guess you're saying, The Greens are supposed to ask calmly concrete questions about my attitude and position on them. What's the matter with me? I either do not answer them or with no, or I answer them in such a way that the people and those who hear them are led astray again. An example in which it is only a matter of facts and not yet of your attitude to the rule of law is the claim: Never before have as many refugees been cared for as now! – Yes, that is not true, Mr Kößl, one of the main defenders of the Minister of the Interior! [[Abg. Kößl: Is it true or is it not?]] ==References== December 1993 – many here still remember! – 40 184 people were thanked in an Austrian federal action, received a roof over their heads and found protection from persecution here, as it were. Did you forget that? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] I don't know what you did at the time, but thank God you weren't the Minister of the Interior at the time, because with the attitude you have towards refugees today on the one hand and the rule of law on the other, it wouldn't have happened in Austria at that time that with stand 31. In December 1993, 40 000 in Austria had found a roof over the head, food and protection from persecution. At that time, under such an interior minister, these people would not have even entered the country, for they had been “routinely persecuted ” by those who were then standing at the border to receive them. This is the fact that it's here! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rädler:... fairy tales!]] This brings me to some of your non-responsibilities in this context. Federal Minister! I do not know if you – no, you have said that you do not know the act of the Federal Criminal Office. I would advise you, if the opposition makes urgent requests to you, please inform yourself of the content of files of your authorities! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Should he give an instruction?]] You are the head of the Federal Criminal Office, Mr. Federal Minister! You have to let that break on your tongue! [[Abg. May. Molterer: What do you want? And if, you'd say he's taking influence!]] It's all right, you mean: My cabinet is involved, I myself turn with coolness – the young people would call it – and I say in the Committee on the Interior, I didn't know anything about it at all; but I myself – as we all know now and as you yourself admit – already ten days before, Mag. Bürstmayr as the head of the Commission, because he is under investigation by the BKA. [[Abg. May. Molterer: What do you want now?]] That is a contradiction after another! They themselves call it “routine” that subordinated investigative authorities brutally hinder legal activity in Austria, questioning the existence of people, because you are going here, keeping the photo of Bürstmayr and Lorenz in the nose, and ask: Do you know them? The refugees say: Yes, these are my lawyers! And then to think that this procedure will not affect the relationship of trust between a lawyer and his client whom he advises, so I have such a thing in judicial matters – and there are many stories; I do not know how the lawyers among us, here in the circle of Members, see – honestly not at all! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Wittmann]] [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Unbearable!]] This is really bad influence and disability and in-game settings of the existence of people! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And then – and with this I now come to the top of the non-argument, you have to say – to say: Ladies and gentlemen, it has also applied to a woman, and she was equally qualified; and because I am such a great feminist, I take the woman! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Yes, there's a problem now, isn't it?]] Mr. Federal Minister! It is not me, but the chairman of the Human Rights Advisory Council, the Vice-Chairman of the Human Rights Advisory Council, other members of the Human Rights Advisory Council, who have repeatedly asked you to explain why. Bürstmayr as chairman of a Human Rights Commission has not yet been re-ordered. To this day, a woman has never been mentioned as an argument! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But you always blame him!]] By chance, just today, as the request of the Greens to It is set, come with this – in which case I have to say – “totschlaga argument”. And as a woman, I do not like the fact that we always have to keep up when the unable, disrespecting the rule of law and feeling of ignorance to the rule of law are here! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Federal Minister! It was from your mouth to hear these concrete questions: All such documents, which reach the Office of Ministers, all documents and, I say now, all the newspapers and web pages that exist are routinely forwarded to the BKA for investigation – that is, what lawyers do, what human rights activists like Mrs Mag.a Lorenz do. Just at the time when she became the obsessant and thus the spokesperson of “SOS Mitmansch”, this subtle and ultimately the criminal charges against her have begun to be open, brutal, politically motivated persecution. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] Mr Federal Minister, you cannot speak out of this responsibility either with beautiful words or with anointing words addressed to us and with them with a defamatory inability to reveal. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens.]] I haven't trusted you in a long time. But this action has confirmed my lack of confidence in you again! [[Abg. Dr. stupid: But now even less!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e11934	The next speaker is Mrs Fekter. Your welcome time. 8 minutes, the legal person: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e11953	Mr President. Mr. Minister! The Greens have quite excitedly presented something here under the title of “scanal disregard of the rule of law by the Minister of the Interior”. [[Abg. Sburny: That's quite exciting too!]] [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: This is still very polite!]] [[Calls and appeals between representatives of the ÖVP and the Freeman on the one hand and the SPÖ on the other.]] For you, it is therefore a violation of the rule of law if, in the event of suspicions, a crime occurs to the prosecutor. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! In our rule of law, it is a duty for an official offence to be determined in an official manner. Or do you want suspect moments to disappear in the ministerial office and the minister to beat down the official investigation? [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Where is there a suspicion, Mrs. Colleague?]] Is that what you want? [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: That's absurd! And that's what a lawyer says!]] Thank God our Minister has no such legal understanding, but the excitement of both the colleague Glavischnig and the colleague Stoisits is quite artificial. [[Abg. May. Kogler:... a suspect constructed!]] In fact, if one takes the accusations more precisely into consideration, adheres to the facts and does not simply sound in conjecture like the two previous speakers, then all of this dissolves into air quite quickly. Mr Stoisits said at the end of her speech in her excitement that the Minister should be quick to get the act. – Yes, do you want him to influence, now that the prosecutor has put it back? What was that nonsense? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Puswald and Mag. Worm.]] The Minister will certainly not influence! That's why we have confidence in our Minister of the Interior! [[Violent condolences with the ÖVP and with representatives of the liberals.]] What it was all about, both ladies have actually been silent. The suspect moments that appeared at the Security Directorate in Lower Austria were the following – I can quote that, because that is still on the homepage; and it is not a crime because it has put the prosecutor's office back –: [[Call: Where did you get this?]] It was called upon to seek private housing owners who were willing to hide refugees from the authorities for a few weeks. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: It is terrifying what you give of yourself!]] This hiding place should therefore be done before the authorities in order to protect them from deportation. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Well, what are you doing, Professor Van der Bellen?- Oh, my God!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] As a result, the suspicion has appeared – Dr. Puswald, you are a lawyer, you would have to know the criminal law – that this may call for disobedience to law. [[Call the ÖVP: Look here!]] [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Have you never read the law before? Or don't you understand?]] [[Calls and calls between representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The prosecutor didn't see it like that and put it back. But a suspicion moment was given on the basis of this statement. [[Abg. Scheibner: But it is scandalous anyway!]] The persons concerned are considered innocent and it is also because no charges are filed. It corresponds to our rule of law that such suspicions or similar suspicions are transmitted to the prosecutor's office to check if something is in place or not. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Your legal understanding is not ours!]] Such facts, ladies and gentlemen, are the daily bread of security authorities, but also of political offices and cabinets. Mr Pilz has already sent countless representations of the case to the prosecutor's office, which had nothing at all to do with it, with which nothing has come out at all and which has subsequently been recruited. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Exactly! That's it!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: According to the Minister of Justice!]] But the Greens have a rather selective legal understanding! [[Abg. Arbitrators:... Not yet ministers with you!]] The mushroom must not be allowed to be used by the safety authorities. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Exactly! That's the legal understanding!]] Thematically, this scandalisation attempt was concerning the two lawyers. As far as lawyers are concerned, I am admittedly also very sensitive. The duty of lawyers to be silent is a human right which is respected in this state and here, in this House, is naturally consistent among all political groups. This is about the obligation of confidentiality concerning the clientship. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann:... not this lawyer!]] But I have to say quite honestly: Would be the incident around power. Bürstmayr also came to my office and had someone deposited the facts with me that there may be a suspicion on towing if an Austrian lawyer in a neighboring safe third country, namely in the Czech Republic, in the Czech Republic, in order to be correct, distributed his business cards, carried out asylum advice in order to advertise future clients for his activity in Austria, I would have personally, if it had come to my office, sent a statement of facts about towing to the public prosecutor. [[Call the SPÖ:Czechs!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Czech Republic!]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: That's incredible!]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: This has nothing to do with towing at all!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Therefore: To construct an excitement for political persecution here, I consider it quite bold, because, ladies and gentlemen, our laws, of course, also apply to lawyers, the Austrian legal order also applies to lawyers and lawyers. [[Complementary by representatives of the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: But not for the Minister of the Interior!]] And, of course, the criminal code applies to lawyers. And to the accusation that the Minister critically expressed himself on a constitutional court knowledge, but at the same time said that he would, of course, accept and implement the knowledge, but it is not for good, that, ladies and gentlemen, our constitutional right of freedom of expression must still be possible in a rule of law. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: To sharpen the asylum law!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The Constitutional Court examines the constitutional conformity, not practicality, not social compatibility, not what is necessary in order to ensure efficient administration. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Puswald]] [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: The Minister is not pleased that the Constitution is the way it is!]] If here the Minister of the Interior thinks that he does not feel that the result is that and that you have to improve something – of course, Mr Puswald, that is why we also have a convention! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] We just have a convention because we know we need to modernise some things. But until they are modernised, of course, a knowledge needs to be implemented. That's why you don't have to feel it as 100 percent good yet, but you can also criticize it.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e12360	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I would like to ask Mr Puswald, in particular, not every speaker who is not of his opinion, to be constantly disturbed and not to make intermediate calls from a place that is not assigned to him. In the next such activity... [[Abg. Dr. Puswald:... did not know that this was forbidden, Mr President!]] - I'll give you a call for order. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Tell me how you are... justified, Mr President!]] The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Posch. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr Wittmann: Intervocation is a democratic right, Mr President!]] [[Further ongoing calls.]] The speaker is speaking! The speaking time you wanted is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e12430	Mr President. High house! Today's urgent question asks the implicit Gretchen question: How do you keep it with the rule of law? Some examples of this are sketched. You, Mr Minister, have said that sometimes it is a matter of style, sometimes of subject matter. Let us start with the stylistic questions and the legal issues on the example of the UBAS. They have already tried to brand the UBAS, the independent federalasylsenate, as a slow, ineffective authority. “This is an authority that can do and leave whatever it wants, that is also seen in the results of its work.” – So much for the underestimation. Or: They were in the UBAS and said in the Committee on the Interior: “Only two people were present, one of which I found paper reading.” – So much for the permanent devaluation of this authority, with a question of what you have done in an independent and independent authority. What moved you to go there? Was your visit announced or not? Was the competent authority present, or where was he at all at the time of your visit, because Mr President Khol is pulling the axles? Or: What new problem vision could you gain from this story? – This is very important because the UBAS suffers from its constant threats. They talked about the increased controlling of the UBAS. Quote in a reply to a question: “Subjective opinions and views are not the subject of the execution of the Federal Minister of the Interior” and so on. They are constantly trying to put pressure on the authority, although you know that the independent federal asylsenate is heavily understated, because we have assumed about 5,400 cases per year that need to be done. In the meantime, 12,000 cases per year have been landed. And if you look at how much time there is left for a decision, then in the present situation you will arrive at half a day for the study of files, for the conduct of investigations, for the conduct of a public hearing, for a decision on appeal, for writing and so on. In other words, with your policy, you will ensure that the rule-of-law procedure cannot be carried out or that there is a huge setback. You are responsible for this, and this is worrying because those affected often have to wait for years for the decision. Then criticize the UBAS, but at the same time you starve him out. And if criticism doesn't work, then you start bending the asylum law. - So much for the first thing. On the second story, which is worrying: the human rights lawyers. Mr Jarolim will continue to address this. A few things are already relevant in this context, namely the fact that you were on 27 July. On October 22th or 25th, you said in the Committee on the Interior. On the verge of the investigations against Bürstmayr and Lorenz on October 1, all indications indicate a different situation, as was already apparent from the previous statements. The question is therefore: How to keep You're talking about the truth in this regard? What's right in all cases is that power. Bürstmayr was proposed by the Human Rights Advisory Council by a large majority as chairman of this Commission. Your understanding of women in honour, I find it touching, but in reality it is a difficult affront against the Human Rights Advisory Council. They have actually disavowed the work of the Human Rights Advisory Council. In fact, this Human Rights Advisory Council is a body for the control of administration and enforcement, and thus also for ensuring the rule of law. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The fact that you face this human rights council in such a way says a lot about your fundamental right understanding. Third example: Asylum Act. The Asylum Act is one of many laws that have been repealed constitutionally. In this context, I would like to make another quote from Hans Winkler in the “Small Newspaper” because this is so beautiful: "In spite of all the beautifying devastations, the Constitutional Court of Justice has spoken about the government's asylum policy an annihilation. Even the President of the VfGH, known as arrears, read the Levites to the government. It's a rarely bad law. In a legal area where it is about reliable applicability, taking into account international rules and respecting humanitarian standards, Ministry and Parliament have done a lot of sloppy work.” – Frivol sloppy work! They are responsible for the constitution, international law and Austrian laws and their compliance. They prefer to purchase the breach of the rule of law, and therefore we are very grateful for the fact that the Constitutional Court has brought legal certainty back. This is not the case, as the head of the Evangelic Diakony of Chalupka said, of false parkers, but it is about human lives whose Causa is for debate and treatment. That's why you didn't really get hurt. The ban on innovation and the deportation of the procedure, in the absence of unlawful conclusion, have been abolished as unconstitutional. So it is not, as you said at the outset, that you naturally respect the decisions and findings of the Constitutional Court. What then serves the sentence: What's right doesn't necessarily have to be good. Who does that apply to? This applies to the Constitutional Court, to the budget, to the refugee policy, to the refugees themselves or only to the Constitutional Court, because it is not your will, but the principle of the VfGH that the only measure for the VfGH is the Constitution itself when assessing laws. What is the crucial point? – Many laws that you passed were unconstitutional. When the Constitutional Court of Justice ruled out: Civil Service Act, New Regulation, § 46 Staff Representative Act, § 4 Asylum Law, Security Police Act, § 15a Civil Service Law and Asylum Reform 2003. [[Abg. Wittauer: You have always worked with the constitutional majority!]] They are included in the Phalanx of your other ministerial colleagues, whose laws are also unconstitutional: Ambulance fees, accident pensions, main association, university reform, settlement, pension reform, military power law, social security law, forced retirement of officials and so on. You have had time in five years to show how to deal with fundamental sensitive issues. Result: numerous unconstitutional laws, numerous interventions in fundamental rights, fight against control bodies and kill critical voices. These five years have shown that the observance of fundamental rights and the rule of law are not necessarily the highest limit of your activity for you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e12474	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. Your welcome address: 7 minutes, the legal person: 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e12493	Ladies and gentlemen! There is a wonderful quote that really fits very well with your urgent and also with your remarks, which reads: “Conception is a minimum of facts in connection with prejudices and feelings.” – And your essentials and your statements are characterized by prejudices and feelings. These are your subjective circumstances, ladies and gentlemen! They sue the Federal Minister in connection with the lawyer and the attorney incessantly abuse the law. They are outraged by the fact that a case-law with a very serious criminal content goes to the public prosecutor's office. Mrs Fekter has already pointed out: It's an official crime that was suspected. This has been examined, and the prosecutor's office then closed the proceedings. This was not a political persecution, as Mrs Stoisits wanted to make us credible. If Amnesty International reports to London that lawyers in Austria would be politically persecuted, this unfortunately corresponds to the line that Amnesty International is continually pursuing, one tries to bring Austria to a bad light – for whatever reason. We are, of course, totally opposed to this. They are delighted to hear – Mrs Stoisits has formally celebrated – that the chairman of Amnesty International reports on human rights violations or violations to lawyers in London. But please tell the chairman that this was a general offence and not a political persecution, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I'll tell you something: They have accused the Minister of the Interior in this respect of his ministry following lawyers politically. There has once been persecution in the Ministry of the Interior at the expense of certain persons. That was in connection with the letter bomb affair. At that time, one tried to find the perpetrators in the area of the liberals, and at that time the Ministry of the Interior tried – I think it was Minister of the Interior One – to proceed in this direction. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That was a specialist!]] In 90-year-olds, house searches have been made that have never had anything to do with a criminal offence. And then none of you, neither of the greens nor of the reds, got up and appealed to the objectivity. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Yes, exactly!]] That's where you enjoyed yourself. On the contrary, Mrs Stoisits, you have yet to catch up. That was a scandal and not what happened now. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] They complain that the lawyer, Bürstmayr, was no longer appointed to the Human Rights Advisory Board. That's not a life-long thing... - Oh, the lawyer. [[Call the Greens:The lawyer! The lawyer!]] They're always talking about lawyers, and that's why I believed that's a woman, too. It is not a lifelong right to be in the Human Rights Advisory Council, Mrs Stoisits! Read the security police law. The Minister of the Interior has the right to determine the persons of the Human Rights Advisory Council. He is not bound by it when someone has been a member before, that he also orders him again. I am of the opinion that members of NGOs, for example, chairmen of “SOS Mitmansch” do not belong to this advisory board at all, but there should be people who can observe a process objectively. I think these people have enormous prejudices, and they are the so-called objective witnesses in police investigations, in warranties and so on. Mr Minister, I would consider taking not only women – it is really very welcome that you have done so now – but, in general, people of which you do not know from the outset that they have prejudices in a certain direction. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] Further to your subjective view, my dear friends Ladies and gentlemen: They lament the Federal Minister's attacks on the independent Bundesasylsenat. Let your subjective feelings be taken into consideration and see what this independent federal asylsenate does. 36 Judges perform three cases per person in a week. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Madness!]] It is alleged that there are cases pending since 1992. Yeah, you have to think about it. Is this authority still to be praised by the Minister of the Interior? Do you want all this serious? – More than 20,000 uncompleted files lie with the independent Bundesasylsenate. This is an abuse, but not at the Minister of the Interior, but at the independent Bundesasylsenat. 20,000 unfinished files! [[Abg. Scheibner: What's going on?]] This suggests that the independent judges at the UBAS are taking advantage of their independence, which also includes a free term of service, for the most part, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I'm really wondering: The judges of ordinary courts are always controlled. There is the revision, there is the official review, there is an annual obligation to prove which files lie around for more than a quarter of a year, half a year or a year. This obviously does not exist in the independent federal asylsenate. Mr Minister, I would actually ask you to look at the control mechanisms, and if there is no one, then you have to introduce some. It is not possible for an independent authority to have no control mechanisms. Something needs to change. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, you asked the urgent question! They blame the Minister for not increasing the staff at the independent Bundesasylsenat. Yes, he's supposed to pick up on 90 judges, that 90 judges only do three files a week instead of 36? That would be absurd! Throwing in a nutshell She tells the Minister that he does not have a rule of law because he does not increase the number of 36 judges or few judges – let us say so – to 90. – In addition, decisions will be made that leave one’s hair to the mountains. I also have my sources, and I have become aware of the following case. A Pakistani has already sought asylum in Belgium, but has then come to Austria. He obviously likes it better here. In Austria he was rejected at first instance because he had already sought asylum in Belgium. However, the independent Bundesasylsenat has recognised the asylum status. You know why? – Because the Pakistani has said that in Belgium there are people who have a photo of him in their hands and look everywhere. The independent Bundesasylsenat has believed this statement without verifying whether these information is at all correct. In view of this, we really must also doubt the quality of the case law, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. You know, not everything that is not on your political line, Mrs Stoisits, Mrs Glavischnig, and as you all call it, is a violation of justice or abuse, but many are abuses that need to be cleaned up, and that is what the Federal Minister is doing. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: These are independent judges, and I need the protection of independent judges!]] Moreover, as far as criticism of the Supreme Courts is concerned, I must say that the current Federal President Fischer – I can remember exactly – has strongly criticised the judgment against Fred Sinowatz. He was not afraid of independent justice, but he was very critical and also wanted to intimidate judges. There was no cry, Mrs Stoisits was quiet, Mrs Glavischnig was quiet, the SPÖ was of course also quiet. At that time, there was no accusation that the rule of law was in danger of abuse and so on. All you say is very subjective. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But everyone who is not of your opinion gets the punch of “law abusers. ” They are also calling on the Minister to vote against asylum seekers because the recognition of the Constitutional Court of Justice has increased the burden, even by the ruling of the Supreme Court, by each asylum seeker being entitled to federal care. Austria costs 12 million € more per month. And, of course, you have to look at it, ladies and gentlemen, whether these people are also refugees under the Geneva Convention, which we must accept. I say again today, as I did a week ago: We stand at the bottom of the Geneva Convention. Everyone's supposed to get asylum that needs it. But we cannot get those who actually have no right to stay under the Geneva Convention. Instead of all the political parties holding together and trying to make arrangements that distinguish us between those who have been persecuted by the Geneva Convention, whom we want to grant admission, and those who come here only because they expect a better basis of life, you do not draw with us on a line, but disavow all efforts to achieve clarity in this regard.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e12633	It is now up to Members Dr. One and subsequently Mag. In each case, the Commission shall report to the European Parliament and to the Council on the corrective action taken by the Member States. I ask Mr Dr. One to speak. You know the Rules of Procedure: not political judgments, but facts. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e12657	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! My predecessor, Mrs Partik-Pablé, meant to defend Federal Minister Strasser by claiming that under the Minister for the Interior, one had been determined against innocent 90-year-olds. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: 85-year-old!]] This claim is only correct in so far as it has been established by the Judge Partik-Pablé against innocent 90-year-olds. In fact, all investigations have been ordered in the context referred to by you by the prosecutor or the investigating judge. That makes a difference, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e12695	Mr Magistrate has the power to make a further actual correction. Reported on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party I also refer to the Rules of Procedure. - Please. [[Abg. Scheibner: Who requested it, Mr. Colleague?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: The police requested everything, yes!]] [[Further calls.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] I call Mr Magistrate. Posch.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e12752	Mr President. In her speech, Mrs Partik-Pablé said that in the independent Bundesasylsenat 35 Senate members would perform three acts a week, leaving them to say whether this is per member or in total. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: You said that!]] If you look at the number of procedures and the number of open applications, you can easily see that this claim is incorrect. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: This is not an actual correction!]] The fact is that the 35 Senate members currently have to do about 12 000 procedures a year, not to mention the standstill, and that there are about half a day for file studies in an average 50-page act, for supplementary investigations, for the conduct of a public hearing and for written notification. – So much to the facts.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e12805	The next speaker is Dr Pilz, Member of Parliament. His welcome address: 8 minutes, its legal speaking time is 10 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e12824	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to read to you a few short quotes in this context. Question: “Did you get dragged to Austria?” Answer: “No. There were rumors in the Cerveny Ujezd camp that our camp was visited by Austrian lawyers, which advises. But no one has counseled us personally. We have decided for ourselves that we are going to Austria. It was also known to us that we should apply for ‘Asyl’ here, because then we cannot be postponed.” I quote from a second paper: Question: “Did you get dragged to Austria?” Answer: “No. There were rumors in the Cerveny Ujezd camp that our camp was visited by Austrian lawyers, which advises. But no one has counseled us personally. We have decided for ourselves that we are going to Austria. It was also known to us that we should apply for ‘Asyl’ here, because then we cannot be postponed.” Next post: Question: “Did you get dragged to Austria?” Answer: “No. We were visited in the Cerveny Ujezd camp by several Austrian lawyers.” And so on, you know that. Next post: Question: “Did you get dragged to Austria?” Answer: “No. There were rumors that asylum seekers in the Cerveny Ujezd camp had been visited by several Austrian lawyers...’. And so on. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] These are text blocks, word-identical text blocks! [[Abg. These are experiences!]] That's what you call writings of hearings? – I do not know asylum seekers who are being heard independently of each other and who make wordless statements! In such cases, text blocks do not come from the hearers, but from the hearers! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] There is an urgent suspicion that at least these signatures have been manipulated in this way – I carefully formulate it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] On the basis of these papers, which do not contain any reference to the alleged offence, because the enrichment purpose in this context is quite crucial, the advertisement was refunded, with the approval of the cabinet. That means: It is not only about whether a false offence has been claimed here, which has also been immediately recognized by the public prosecutor's office, but whether these texts have anything to do with the statements of the asylum seekers, whether they are actually in line with reality. [[Abg. Neudeck: If you say the same thing several times here, and it's in the record, then the record isn't wrong either!]] Whether the papers correspond to reality will be examined. If you want to know what quality some of the interviews were, I'll give you a next hint from a document. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] “Genuine information could not be made, since it does not speak German itself and only interpret children.” – These are survey methods against human rights lawyers! Children as interpreter! Next point: Mr Federal Minister, you claimed that there had been no police investigations in the trial against the human rights lawyer Lorenz. – This is proved to be the untruth! For the present document of Gendarmerieposten Lembach, see the following: ‘The lights were presented by Nadja Lorenz and Georg Bürstmayr.’ Mrs Lorenz's photo has been presented to an asylum-seeker who was a witness. – This is a classic police investigation! It has been submitted by an official of your ministry. Minister of the Interior! You have today demonstrated to the National Council the untruth on this point. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] And it will prove that that was not the only case. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Hot air, Mr. Pilz!]] I'll come to the next point. “Thank you”, “Webinger”, it says on the copy of the “standard” I have here. – I will briefly tell you the background of this article in the ‘standard’, which is aimed at advocating Mrs Mag. Lorenz. This perhaps politically interesting, but legally, according to the prosecutor's office, completely useless article has been qualified in the cabinet by your employee Webinger, who believed that this was a possibility to offer an ad against Mrs Mag. Lorenz to repay. That is why this article has been forwarded by him to the Federal Criminal Office, and the Federal Criminal Office has just returned this ad to the public prosecutor. You know the other story. Who is responsible for doing a cabinet employee? Is it already so far with you that Mr. Webinger is putting activities of this kind against a human rights lawyer behind your back? Or does he do this on behalf of and with knowledge of his minister? – You have not deliberately answered this question today. That is why we shall continue to ask this question. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] One last of the facts: In the advertisement of the Federal Criminal Office against Mrs Mag. Lorenz is the subject – in contrast to the Bürstmayr display –: ‘Lorenz Nadja, Mag., member of the Human Rights Advisory Council and Chairman of the SOS Mitmensch Platform, Austrian nationals, lawyer, presentation of matters’. That is to say, the most important feature that you have assigned to her in this official advertisement to the Public Prosecutor's Office was her role as member of the Human Rights Advisory Council, the second most important of which is her role as chairman of the platform "SOS Mitmensch", and it is only until the end of the career term "Lawyer". [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The most important professional name is still the name with the title!]] Federal Minister! This is unusual, which reveals a intention, and this intention is only too clearly here on the table and is now known in this House. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But go, Mr. Pilz!]] The suspicion is: You have instructed your employees to use the Austrian criminal law and the officials of your ministry on purpose to force politically displeasing lawyers out of their functions and to silence them in their functions. With this you have crossed a double border: the border of Austrian laws and the border of the Austrian federal constitution. What has been done here has taken place beyond the Austrian rule of law and beyond the Austrian constitution. Minister! We are discussing with you today the following: a deliberate breach of constitution and political persecution in this Republic. They have not become unjustly a case for Amnesty International. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e12957	The next speaker is Mr Kößl. He has a welcome speaking time of 5 minutes, legal speaking time: 10 minutes. – You are speaking, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e12976	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! If there is talk of political persecution here, or if there is even a strange legal view of the Greens, then I would like to begin by presenting the path of a refund. A advertiser comes to a security department – whether that is a general army post or a guard room, whether it is the security management or the ministry – and refunds ad. In the case of an official offence, ladies and gentlemen, there is then an official obligation to follow this announcement. In both cases, this is an official offence and officials have acted legally and have started these surveys. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The case-law, which was written on the basis of these surveys, was submitted to the prosecutor. The prosecutor has subsequently recruited. This is a normal and everyday act of office. The law is the same for all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] Mr Oellinger, if you go, I would like to stress once again: The law is the same for all! So it can't be that on the one hand it should not apply to Dr. Bürstmayr, but on the other hand it must apply to everyone else. That can't be it, I want to say that clearly here! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Oellinger: I have already noticed this with the Minister!]] That is a strange view of right, I must say that in all clarity! To accuse the Minister of the Interior of lack of the rule of law, this is an untenable precept that lacks any basis! A minister of the Interior – that can't be said often enough – who has increased the number of federal services from 2 300 to 26 000 to be inhumane and to accuse him of lack of the rule of law, that is really objectionable! Dear ladies and gentlemen! It was already on the 8th. announced in an APA broadcast of the Greens, in which it reads: “If we do not match the answers of the Minister of the Interior, then we will even consider a request for distrust. – Threats like a defiant child – you have to say that clearly: This is the “responsible” policy of the Greens. I really want to make it clear: What is the right thing in Austria? – Not only the right-wing of the Greens, but in general: What is legal law? [[Abg. May. Worm: What the Constitutional Court says!]] There has been no statement by the Minister of the Interior that decisions of the Constitutional Court – as Mr Kummerer explained yesterday – are suffocating. It is an absolutely unqualified form to express yourself in this way! Rather, we take the decisions of the Supreme Court very seriously, in contrast to some of the statements made by President Prammer, on 21 December. In October 1997 the following declaration was made: “So I really can’t imagine that we are one to one implementing the knowledge of the Constitutional Court now.” Ex-Collegine Mertel once said to family taxation that the laws are Parliament's cause and that the Constitutional Court has no formal role. Pronunciation: "The political design, the laws say, is still Parliament's business." If the Minister of the Interior has made a statement on the civil service issue here, I have to hold something here: We had a panel discussion at the Red Cross in June, in which colleagues from Parliament and many NGOs participated. The NGOs have clearly expressed their support for the form of civil service, as it is now organised and implemented. And if the Constitutional Court now makes a decision and says: That's not right! Then we have to be clear: The law that has been documented by the Constitutional Court goes beyond the interests of those concerned! Dear ladies and gentlemen! A few words to the UBAS: What has been said by the Minister of the Interior is clearly to be underlined. – I was in Traiskirchen several times with colleagues Ellmauer in summer and with other departments dealing with asylum seekers, and everywhere there has been the criticism against the UBAS that it is not working efficiently. I would like to say this clearly from this point of view: The members of the UBAS cannot believe that they are pursuing a purpose of their own. In fact, they have a task to carry out, and that in the sense of taxpayers.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e13046	Mr Jarolim is next spoken. Requested time: 5 minutes, legal speaking time: 10 minutes. – You are speaking, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e13079	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'll take a short look. The situation is extremely serious. Mr Kößl! I would like to say that if you have spoken about whether we are still making proposals here today, I do not wish to presuppose, in this respect I do not wish to presuppose the Greens in particular, but please allow me, Minister of State, to say to you: What I see and experience here today makes you, in my view, no longer bearable as the Federal Minister for the Interior – I will also briefly explain this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] They are pursuing, persecuting or declaring themselves not responsible, although they are at the head of the direction of officials and are responsible to Parliament – and that is the democratic principle. Lawyers are indispensable for every rule of law – I believe this is not disputed here – and dealing with lawyers is also a criterion of maturity to the rule of law and its development. What we are dealing with now shows that it is quite obvious – you allow me to tell you – that it is arbitrary in connection with the occupations in your home, namely, the Senate occupations. With this in mind, I can ask: How credible is a Federal Minister for the Interior who says here that he knows nothing that he doesn't interfere in anything and that he can't do anything for it because it or anyone else has done it? Let's look at it, Minister of State: What have you done in the past in your office? – I can only say: I know a wealth of constitutional court proceedings in which laws have been repealed. Sometimes you can say: This can happen, perhaps there has not been the appropriate expertise in this regard. But I also know laws in which the arbitrariness has been given priority, Mr Federal Minister! Consider, for example, how the Constitutional Court abolished the Civil Service Service Service Law, with which you were granted the right, without any reason – it must not be quite obvious – the State Army Commanders from Lower Austria, from Burgenland and Styria: In this example, one sees that you obviously create the law exclusively in order to be able to carry out an arbitrary act. – That sounds Now hard, but if the Constitutional Court itself finds that, Minister, then you must take it seriously! Consequenceally, this has continued to prevail – I just call the name Schnabl – in the individual order processes. You have simply called someone in arbitrary form, without any reason, and you have said of five candidates, of whom the Commission, which you have used, Minister, has said: Only one must not be: the fifth!, precisely used. – So you must allow yourself to be measured after this setting and according to these criteria! I am allowed to read out the ad that is based on this case and show you why I believe that it is entirely arbitrary and excessive advertising, taking into account the fact that the one who writes the ad must, of course, carefully examine whether a criminal offence exists and not simply pass on information to it. That would be absurd! Then every process that is taking place somewhere in this Republic would be likely to show! Minister! What's to blame? – In the ad, it should be read that a business card of the lawyer Bürstmayr was passed on to an asylumant with the notice that he could contact them if he had problems. It also states that the applicants have received legal advice from the aforementioned lawyer, and it also describes in this peculiar ad how this advice came about. Then, in the case-law, there is the following: ‘On 5.10., the Gmünd District Head Team shall send a complaint to the Independent Administrative Senate, which shall be submitted by the Advocate General Mag. Bürstmayr Georg was introduced.” Such a thing will be forwarded to the Public Prosecutor's Office. This is a scandal of the special class, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I'll come to the end, allow me another sentence. In this context, the President of the Court of Justice in Vienna has declared: “The two signs in question are moving on thin ice. If they were to be written and submitted by an (Austrian) lawyer on behalf of a client, that is, without a profound examination of the sustainability, this colleague would likely be faced with the Disciplinary Council. Unfortunately, in the present case, there is still a very serious suspicion that the security authorities have breached the law-enforced right of confidentiality....” Minister! I think there are issues you need to take care of. In my opinion, what you have done in this matter so far does not justify saying: This Federal Minister for the Interior can afford Austria! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e13166	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. His welcome time: 5 minutes. . You are at the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e13184	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The questions raised by the Greens in this urgent request for asylum legislation reveal a certain attitude, a certain degree of access to this right, and I say immediately: This is not mine, is not the access of the liberals! The Greens obviously do not care what is actually happening in the area of asylum, asylum law. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: That was not the subject at all!]] They don't care if they're being abused, they don't care whether they're going to be criminals here in Austria using abusive application of the right of asylum. [[Abg. Oillinger: That's not the topic!]] Those would be my questions, I wonder you don't care. [[Abg. Sburny: You can make an inquiry anyway!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! You, the Greens, address in your request the right of asylum seekers to state care. - Right! But I'm telling you: Austria is not a country of immigration, but the admission of refugees according to the Geneva Convention was of course for us in the past and it will also be in the future. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In accordance with this urgent request, the Minister of the Interior has also announced the implementation or introduction of a stronger right of asylum. The Greens speak of party-politically motivated “Hold the Thieves!” strategy. – I repeat: Not a word about the illegal use that is taking place, which is causing problems for the Austrian population. Not a word about the economic refugees! For you, these are all asylum seekers, and you accept that. In your request, you are talking about accommodation, whether this accommodation should be bound to the mayor's consent, or whether the Federal Minister for the Interior wishes this. [[Abg. Oillinger: What are you talking about?]] You link this with your question 31. I'm telling you, I'd like that to be true. Unfortunately, in Upper Austria this is not the case of God, where it is handled differently. This leads to such misguided circumstances that, for example, the “Volkshilfe” rents premises such as the old mountain management in Thomasroith. Up to 120 asylum seekers can be accommodated there. It is, however, maligned, for originally, one spoke of 60 to be accommodated there, now it should be 40. Thomasroith has a foreign population of over 10 percent. That is, it is clear that the use will go beyond 40. It is a private landlord, and it will not be to be paid according to the number of refugees who are accommodated, but of course it will be taken good care to accommodate as many as possible. The foreign population in Thomasroith will then be 25 percent. In view of this, I do not need to express my views on how this will be with integration; with the integration you repeatedly address and, of course, with those who are with us. They find that the Federal Minister meant that he invited asylum seekers to return. What is bad about those – and I don't think this number is very small – who seek asylum in Austria and have no real reason for asylum, who are kindly invited to return to their home country? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: 75 percent are maximum!]] Yeah, that's the amazing number. Since my colleague Fekter currently has no microphone available, I would like to repeat her statement: This is a maximum of 75 percent. Austria, ladies and gentlemen, cannot and will not solve the misery of this world. I therefore assume that, on these humanitarian grounds, which are supposed to be granted asylum, one also takes a look back at the Austrians, to those for whom it is a corresponding burden if the number of foreigners in their municipalities exceeds an acceptable level in their places. Federal Minister! What I would like to point out to you is the fact that § 24b of the Asylum Act invites for abuse. This is the paragraph that causes for someone who indicates a traumatisation he suffered during the flight to be stopped or allowed to proceed with the asylum procedure in Austria. I think it is reasonable to change this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e13285	Next speaker is Mrs Haidlmayr. Your speaking time, Mrs Deputies: 4 minutes. I'll set the clock accordingly. - Please, you're talking now.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e13303	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== October 2004 was a beautiful day for me: The Constitutional Court's knowledge has been declared that civil service has been eliminated to a private organisation. That was a very nice day for me, because I am a civil rightsist and a human rightsist and because I simply want laws to be passed in our state, which are also legal. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] For almost three years, Minister, you have felt tormented, misunderstandingd and mistreated by me, because I have repeatedly tried to ensure that civil service cannot be postponed to private organizations, but that it is still the central task of the state to take care of civil servants and to see the assignment of civil servants as a public mission. – The Constitutional Court of Justice has given me the right, Minister, and you have to take note of that. You say you'll take note of it, but everything that's right doesn't mean it's good yet, you first have to see if there's someone who does it as well as this private company that's doing it now. – Minister! I'm telling you, it's up to you whether the ministry will do this so well in the future. This is your sole responsibility. I'll tell you something. Before you became ministers, it worked in the ministry, the assignments worked out. When you became a minister, you subtracted the good people in your ministry. Not because they were suddenly bad, but because they did not fit there from an ideological point of view, they had to go, they were praised, came to any other department, where they had only more insignificant to do in the final effect, and no longer sit at the stations of the allocations where they were before. Minister! I expect you – and not only I am expecting it, but all the civil service members in Austria expect it from you – that this Constitutional Court knowledge will be implemented quickly, that you will not leave time with it until the end of 2005 because it simply cannot be that a civil servant is dependent on a private organisation. How civil service works, where civil servants are assigned or not, that is your job, you have the responsibility to bear, Minister! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In addition, Mr Strasser, when you became a minister, you made yourself here and said: I was a civil servant myself, that is, I'm going to take care of them!, I can only say: You, Minister Strasser, have shown that there is no guarantee that even if you have done something yourself, you will actually represent this group! You, Minister Strasser, are the living proof of this! Mr Minister, you do not represent civilians anymore, and you know very well that civil servants have never been as poor as they are now, that civil servants have never received as little money as they do now! – Mr Minister, that must be an end! [[Abg. Ellwall: Pure submissions!]] You, Mr Minister, said that €5.86 would be sufficient for the food of a civilian servant. – This is cynical, and you know very well: Civil servants get 350 € per month for food, for living, for heating, for electricity. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: And what do presenters have?]] I don't want anyone in our Republic to admit that he/she has to face his/her costs with €350 a month. However, you, Mr Minister, have the power to lay down this for civil servants more or less. And that you do, I find personally loathsome!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e13368	The next speaker is Mr Ellmauer. His speaking time is 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e13423	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Austria looks back on a long tradition as an asylum country – we can be proud of it! – and has opened its borders to refugees again and again generously. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This fact is also repeatedly appreciated by international organisations, for example, the research society for the world refugee problem has referred to Austria as “very good” asylum country. The high human rights standards of Austria in the asylum policy were praised. – And we want to continue to maintain these high standards. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) When our Federal Minister Ernst Strasser took office, there were about 2,300 asylum seekers in federal care. This number has increased dramatically; this is clearly seen by the number of asylum seekers in federal care now present – this figure dates back to 5. November of this year –: 26 381 are currently in federal care. This dramatic change, which is the result of the number of asylum seekers, once again underlines the urgent need to amend the asylum law. The new asylum law has largely succeeded. This takes into account, in a balanced way, both the interests of Austrian citizens and those of asylum seekers who actually need asylum. It can be neither in the sense of the Austrian fellow citizens nor in the interest of those seeking help and those who are persecuted, that Austria will become more target country number 1 international tow bands, that people drag to Austria, who hope for only economic improvements here. The accusation of the Greens and also of the Social Democrats, Federal Minister Strasser would disregard the principles of the rule of law, I strongly reject! Just as unnecessary is the accusation, Federal Minister Strasser shows “nostrance” to Supreme Courts. – Instead, I stress that Minister Strasser, of course, after the decision of the Constitutional Court, has pointed out that this knowledge is being implemented. But I would also like to make it clear: So far, there is no written statement of this knowledge. These accusations raised by the Greens are immense, and I would like to point them out very strongly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister Strasser has succeeded in creating an asylum policy that is in the sense of those who actually need asylum. Of course, the more than tenfold increase in the number of asylum seekers has led to new demands. However, Federal Minister Strasser has successfully met these requirements: As the first Minister of the Interior of the Second Republic, he succeeded in establishing an Article 15a for the purpose of providing basic services to the federal government and countries. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank Federal Minister Strasser particularly for his dedicated work and his commitment to those who come to our country and actually need help. These people will continue to receive them as quickly as possible. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Just a short while to this realization of the VfGH: 95 percent of the asylum law is constitutional. In this way, the law has largely stood before the Constitutional Court. I can still remember very well discussions with you about the opposition and the NGOs in the run-up to the law, in which you have put all of this as unconstitutional. . I note that we and our Minister have endeavoured to fix the three provisions that have been repealed by the Constitutional Court in writing. As to what is going on under the Federal Insurance Act, I note that this was not disputed. As a former mayor, I tell you from experience that the involvement of municipalities and mayors in the care of asylum seekers and the involvement of a community's entire civil society is essential in order to ensure an easy living together. In my community I had accommodated up to 270 asylum seekers – with only 1,700 inhabitants. And I can only say: I would like to thank Federal Minister Strasser for including the communities in this way. As for civil service, after many discussions with civil servants, I can see that it has been eliminated first of all and, secondly, that civil servants are generally in favour of this new form. Ladies and gentlemen! I am now briefly quoting a paragraph from the “socialist correspondence” of the 8th century. April 1992, in which it reads – I quote literally –: The different judgments, namely an acquittal and several convictions, only confirm the unfortunate course of the Austrian judicial system in this case, which has been criticised from the beginning by respected lawyers. – This quote comes from the SPÖ-Klubobmann Heinz Fischer, the later President of this House – and now our Federal President. Heinz Fischer then criticized the entire Austrian judicial system. And no one at that time tried to accuse the current President of the Federal Republic of Germany of “missing rule of law”. – I therefore ask you from the opposition parties to: Construct You do not ask for such unjust accusations to Federal Minister Strasser today! Finally, I note that Austrian asylum policy will continue to move under the Geneva Convention, the European Convention on Human Rights and the Austrian Constitution. And, above all, our Federal Minister Ernst Strasser is guaranteed for this.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e13532	The next speaker is Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. – Mrs Colleague, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e13551	Mr President. Minister! High house! It is embarrassing that we need to deal with this urgent question here in Parliament today. [[Bravorufe and detonatative condolences with representatives of the ÖVP.]] – The actions of Minister Strasser and his sloppy dealings with the rule of law make this necessary. If one has heard the speeches of the EIA and the Liberal Members, then I must say that it is even very important for us to deal with this urgent question here today, because this is how we can show how Minister Strasser, who is advocating the Constitution, deals with fundamental rights, with human rights and with constitutional rights in our country – and how the representatives of the government parties are trying to defend and play down this approach with teeth and claws. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] I believe that the procedure of Mr Strasser's Minister of Interior must be described as sloppy, without responsibility and withdrawn: This begins, ladies and gentlemen, with the law-making process, with the implementation of the laws moving forward – and finds its sad climax when the administrative court becomes involved. [[Abg. Prince: This speech might have been valid seven years ago!]] I would now like to show this by means of the Asylum Act. It was in the previous year that, in the run-up to many well-known experts and also by the opposition, it was repeatedly pointed out that the law will be unconstitutional in certain parts. – The answer of the Minister and the government parties was always: We don't care! Experts and experts were even agreed on their expertise. I remember very well the statement made by Mrs Partik-Pablé in the committee, who said that they always see only one side. You said this again today, Mrs. Colleague. I'd like to tell you: It is the task of human rights organisations to see the well-being of people and to ensure that human rights are safeguarded and, above all, protected. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] All appeals on the part of the NGOs and the opposition to ensure that human rights are respected by this law were simply ignored by you and by the colleagues of the ÖVP and the FPÖ. [[Abg. Ellmauer:... submissions! That's a joke! Shame!]] Even then, as today, the asylum seekers – you can read that – were constantly criminalized and stigmatized. This is your way of making politics in this country, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] So there is still a climate today against the asylum seekers in this country, and I think that is still being startled. I think this climate does not help you, Mr Minister, in the implementation of the law, and it does not help, above all, the people who seek protection from us. You said today that the system of these Article 15a agreements proved to be successful. That's what I have to ask, Minister: Do you not know that the implementation of these agreements does not really work in our country? Don't you know that national leaders plan and think aloud about simply proclaiming the articles-15a agreement? I wonder, Where is the proven system? You seem to lack the will to communicate with the affected people, with the national leaders, with the mayors and also with the people who live in the regions. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] We need a minister who assumes his responsibility and does not leave people in the rain – and I mean all of them: the Austrians and the asylum seekers. [[Abg. Ellmauer: Tell your people in the countries!]] Now, ladies and gentlemen, since the law is unconstitutional in parts, I believe that the provisionally sad highlight in dealing with the rule of law and human rights is coming to an end, and I fear that it is not yet the end, because instead of enhancing the anti-constitutional and anti-human parts, you, Mr Minister, and also FPÖ, want to intensify the law. I do not think that this tightening of the asylum law will solve the problem. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Who put this speech on you? That's not just wrong!]] You, Mr Minister, must guarantee that people seeking protection can wait for their procedures in a decent and rule-of-law manner and that they are also carried out. But they bring the UBAS into discredit and place lawyers who deal with human rights issues and engage in this field in a criminal corner, Mr. Minister. I'm coming to the end of the sentence. The statement you made: What is right doesn't have to be good!, I would like to add something, namely: But it must remain right – also for an interior minister, also for the ladies and gentlemen of the government parties. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter]] Respect the rule of law, do not shake at its foundations and show respect for the people.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e13666	Mr Fauland has been mentioned as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e13684	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If you have listened to the previous speaker, please note: [[Call the SPÖ: It was great!]] She feels that the asylum law is clearly too sharp to be liberalized. She thinks it's against human rights. – Here I am and the FPÖ disagrees. The Asylum Act has proven itself in its basic features, but it is certainly still possible to improve, but we are still going to do so. In our opinion, there is certainly an asylum problem. If you look at the absolute figures of the first half of this year, then if you let the 30 strongest industrial nations pass through Revue, we will be in fourth place that we are behind Germany and before Canada. We will also see, however, that in Austria in the first half of the year, despite this “inhuman” asylum law, as you say, we had 12 500 asylum applications. Germany has had 18 668 asylum applications, and this is compared to Austria almost the same number. But if you refer this to the population, you have to say: We have a hugely increased share to carry! This must be seen, above all, from the perspective of the Dublin II agreement. Austria is in itself only surrounded by friend countries, Dublin II countries or safe third countries, and therefore the question is: How do these high numbers of new asylum seekers come about? But you also have to go into motivational research: What motivates anyone to seek asylum in Austria? – If you look at a report from 2001 – which can be seen in spite of everything – it is noted that in 1998 23 percent have been declared as the reason for political persecution, while in 2001 this percentage has been reduced to 12.7 percent. Economic considerations played a role in 48.1 percent of all asylum seekers in 1998, with 30 percent in 2001, but the asylum seekers were probably well advised, as in parallel, an increase of 10 to 24 percent for personal reasons was observed. – That’s a short time for motivation. That is why we note the urgent need for action. Germany, for example, has responded. Germany has created a corridor. Two kilometres within the German territory, it is possible to send back illegal border workers, if the time contexts are clear, – certainly a model, Mr. Federal Minister, which could also be considered for Austria. Remarkable is also the problem of deportation. On the one hand, we have a share of non-Austrian prisoners in Austrian prisons of 43.03 percent, on the other hand, we are still discussing the intentional removal of criminal applicants. This is one thing that needs to be carefully looked at, because it is a question of whether Austria has the obligation to grant additional asylum for the purpose of criminal proceedings. To the municipalities: The keywords you hear sound as beautiful as: Every community an asylum seekers! But I am already looking at how the resonance will be when the mayors will have the first asylum seekers. I can imagine it because I am in a place community representative myself, I know what is being spoken at the base. There is the motto: Refugees, but certainly not with me in the place! That's the daily tenor. For these reasons – and I would like to conclude – I ask you, Mr Federal Minister, to – and I am convinced that we will succeed – to optimize the current asylum law in such a way that it corresponds to the requirement that all Austrians place on such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e13724	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Kapeller. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e13742	Madam President. Estimated Minister! High house! On the one hand, it is for you, ladies and gentlemen, from the Green Group, of course, gross criticism, yes accusations against Mr Minister, against members of the Cabinet and against officials of the Federal Criminal Office, on the other hand you do not allow criticism to be practiced at the Constitutional Court or at the UBAS, although no one – and not our Minister at all! – these institutions, whose rights or decisions are questionable or criticised. [[Abg. Oillinger: We asked – no answer!]] It is certainly not the end of democracy, Mrs Glawischnig, when a minister draws attention to the consequences of the findings of the Supreme Courts – such as civil service. It is not a Majesty's policy if it is considered critical that more than 24 000 open procedures are pending in the UBAS. It is certainly not a blasphemy if the boss is on the basis of these figures that this is given not only because of the number of members at the UBAS. In my service as the first decision-maker at the Bundesasylamt in Linz, I know exactly one thing: Some procedures at the UBAS have taken over a fee or very long. For example – which is visible in the files – lie between the individual revenues, between the individual charges intervals of months. Administrative procedures may and must be questioned, at least by the boss. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Institutions equipped with the judicial special status of independence, indifference and inadmissibility may also be critically assessed without immediately questioning their rights and decisions. Now to your scandals of the cases of Bürstmayr and Lorenz. To this end, as a criminal police officer, as a criminal police officer, I can say: There is no other way than to pass on a case-law to the courts in case of suspicion. Or do you want us to evaluate Kripo officials prejudicially? I don't think you want that either. So it's easy to say: Austria has the best basic provision in the field of asylum, otherwise no lawyers in the Czech Republic would advertise for our country – by chance they will also become clients; is not willing. Austria had optimal conditions for civilian servants last year. An infinitely long queue could be dismantled. Austria has become the safest country in the world for the third time in series. Thank you, Minister. In conclusion: Mrs. Glawischnig, you said you were watching Minister Strasser keep moving to the right. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Yes!]] That's why you're really doing it! They protect our ministers solely because he does not represent your social policy intention. Especially in the security field, asylum there is a great gap between public opinion and public opinion, between the opinion of the basis and the political opinion of the Greens. They publish opinions, we listen to public opinion, and that is why we also have the mandate to rule.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e13802	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Darabos. Voluntary limit on speaking time: 4 minutes, remaining speaking time: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e13821	Madam President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! You will not have the mandate to rule with such ministers for long. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To sum up it in a sentence: Mr Minister, it is scandalous how you answered this urgent question. So far you have only been a critic of the Constitutional Court, as a critic of the rule of law in Austria, today you have been out of your way as one who is negated by Parliament. The answer to your question, which you have delivered here in front of this House today, cannot be accepted. You might be inclined to understand why. If you know that you have the highest rate of crime in the Second Republic with more than 700 000 criminals that now, at the same time, the Enlightenment rate of more than 51 percent, which still existed among Social Democratic Ministers, has fallen to only 37 percent, that you have to answer the closure of Gendarmerie Posts, that, contrary to your statements, fewer officials are in use on the streets, and no more officials that you at the same time Your ministry has painted politically and internationally recognized experts from your field, such as the already mentioned General Schnabl and also General Strohmeyer and the National Army Commander Kanz, have been in the early retirement, then one could think and tend to understand your nervousness in connection with your dealings with the rule of law. [[Abg. Wittauer: The Schnabl is made, the Schnabl works...!]] But that you simply wipe out the findings of the Constitutional Court and say literally here: What is right doesn't necessarily have to be good! is especially in the case of an interior minister who should be very sensitive to democracy, incomprehensible and also not acceptable from our side. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It is also not to be accepted – we are almost delivered to this ritual every day – that the government parties must complain if a law is not repealed by the Constitutional Court or if a law is subsequently repaired by you. Especially in your There is a massive rise in problems that the Constitutional Court has identified. I say quite frankly to you that it is an admission of personal failure when, in the civil service sector – including in the urgent question, it is quite explicitly addressed – the Constitutional Court itself becomes active and, in the grounds of the repeal of the Civil Service Act, states that the administration of civil servants must be a central task of the state. That is, you have voluntarily adopted a core task of the state, and that is not only not good for an interior minister, but is also evidence of incompetence in your place of business. You have proved in recent years that you are simply passing over the concerns of the opposition, which they express time and again before you bring in laws. The Constitutional Court has taught you a better one. Massaging the problems in your area shows that a urgent request is more than just-made. Greater parliamentary action should be taken against you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e13882	The next speaker is Mr Parnigoni. Speaking time: 5 minutes; this is also the entire remaining speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e13901	Ladies and gentlemen! For my group, I would like to briefly: It is a fact that the Minister of the Interior had to accept the following withdrawals: constitutional provisions in civil service, in the staff representation, in the asylum law, in the security police law, asylum reform 2003, now again the exclusion of civil service administration. He has lost a number of administrative court proceedings for illegal post- or retirement transfers. Many of these procedures are, therefore, so unfortunate for the Minister because, in the run-up to many well-known experts, he has been fully confirmed that he will not be able to cope with these legal provisions, which he submits, will simply not be kept before the Constitutional Court. The Minister said: What's right, that doesn't necessarily have to be good too! He also meant: On the high seas and in the Constitutional Court you are in God's hand! – Ladies and gentlemen! The fate of asylum seekers is not the fate of people for this minister, and it must be noted that this process, that these statements, which he represents here, are in fact proving that he is increasingly delegating himself from or away from the ground of the rule of law. Mr. Bundesminister Strasser, you are leaving the limits of legality, but you, as the Federal Minister for the Interior, must protect fundamental rights and the rule of law and safeguard the rule of law. As an interior minister, you need to maintain and maintain a sensitive relationship with the right. But you, Mr. Federal Minister, are not capable of learning either. We see very well that you are now being told by well-known experts quite clearly that you are being made aware of the fact that you will be reintroduced into the anti-constitutional law in the Security Police Act. Again, you are in danger of becoming the perpetrator again against the Constitution if you want to go through the security police law as you plan. Write with this novel She has at least 5 300 posts new from – Minister Pröll has admitted at least this 5 300 in her representation in the Federal Council. This means that the entire security device is concerned with itself for a year – the criminals will be keeping here, as it were, wedding in a security situation in which we have had the highest crime for many decades in this country, in which the Enlightenment goes down massively and the security device is moaning under the loads. Federal Minister! You are responsible and you are in the process of destroying the trust of citizens in the rule of law. Ladies and gentlemen! Because, in reply to this urgent question, this Federal Minister also disregarded the right to information of the National Council to the greatest, because this Federal Minister also meant and made it clear that, despite the evidence that these proposals will be unconstitutional, he would continue to wish to continue the policy of persecuting laws, because of the fact that they will be non-constitutional. We are not prepared to deal with fundamental rights in the future very carefully because this minister does not show any insight and does not want to change the usual practice in the future, we are convinced that I must make the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Do something for Austria, do something for security, and do something for the rule of law, so that it will remain true in the future!– Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e13983	I note that Mr Parnigoni's request has been properly put in place, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e14059	Mr Klubobmann Scheibner is now speaking. Time left: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e14078	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Much has been said today, even in previous debates, of democratic understanding, of understanding of the rule of law, of understanding of parliamentarianism, especially of the representatives of the opposition. Perhaps it is your understanding of parliamentarianism and fairness if you bring in one of the strongest means that Parliament has towards a member of the government, if the Minister's party has only two minutes of speaking time, in order to be able to raise objections. This is perhaps your view of parliamentarianism or perhaps also a sign of bad conscience, that if possible, one no longer wants to allow counter-arguments, arguments against this purely Party-politically motivated motion of censure, which you present here shortly before the end of this debate. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ and above all of the Greens! They always stress that intellectual honesty is so important in the political debate. Then we will discuss: What can we do? What can a minister do? Both have made the same oath, the same vow to the Austrian federal constitution. Can a representative or a public body criticize decisions of courts or not? Yes or no? Can he do this or can't he? Or can he only criticize them if it suits you? Are you allowed to criticize decisions that do not fit you, while others may not, because the decisions are appropriate to you? [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: You didn't understand!]] Is that really an understanding of the rule of law, even of the awareness of democracy, that what you want is always all right, and that is not all that others might want? This is certainly not the same standard that we have to lay down in a democracy and in a rule of law. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens and also of the SPÖ, you can criticise the Minister of the Interior for his political actions, no question, but the motion for a mistrust is justified, among other things, by the criticism by the Federal Minister of the Interior. He didn't say he won't keep them, he can't do that – and we have to keep them, because we have to fix the law here – but he has criticized them. Ladies and gentlemen! If you say – and this must apply to everyone – you must not criticize constitutional court knowledge, what do you say to your honourable Member, ladies and gentlemen? I know it was another time when you were still in the government. They have had a two-thirds majority, the constitutional majority. At that time it was about waiting for a decision of the Supreme Court on the competence situation at the Semmering Base Tunnel. The decision was not yet in place, and Mr Herbe has already said: It does not matter how the Supreme Court decides, because we are already preparing a Constitutional Act which finally decides this question. If the Constitutional Court decides for us, then it is good, and if not, then it is more an argument to adopt a Constitutional Law! – You didn’t care how decided, Mr Parnigoni. This is a question of the rule of law: not only that you criticize a knowledge of the Constitutional Court, but that you do not care how it decides that you say: If he doesn't decide what we want, then we'll go over it with our two-thirds majority and shut down the constitutional control! Or, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, Mrs Glawischnig: What about the criticism by your colleague Lunacek of a constitutional court of law in the homosexual question that you did not agree with? Or: It has strongly criticized Mrs Haidlmayr, who has a constitutional court of law in the civil service issue, which has not been as she wanted it to be. Or: From Mrs Vassilakou in Vienna, who would have liked to have the foreign election right, but what the Constitutional Court has seen differently, it has said: a defeat for a world-famous and modern Vienna! Insights and court proceedings bear the handwriting of a minister, you have claimed. So the accusation of the impact of the judicial system was raised here. That, ladies and gentlemen, is all acceptable to Members of this House who have spoken the same vow to the Austrian Constitution as this Minister. [[Abg. May. Worm: But you are not part of the administration, but the delegates are part of the legislative! That's the difference!]] But you can't do it that easily, ladies and gentlemen! The degree of democracy and the rule of law is measured by how to deal with the opinion of others and not with one's own opinion. You can write this to the main book once! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We, ladies and gentlemen, insist that we need an orderly asylum procedure, that of course we have to take seriously the criticism of the Constitutional Court, but that we have to help the fundamental concerns to break through: Asylum for the really politically persecuted, but to prevent abuse in the interests of the Austrians, but also in the interests of the real asylum seekers, all of whom deserve our support.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e14151	The next Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Molterer. Total residence time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e14169	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! To the courage and to the understanding of democracy, Herbert Scheibnerschon rightly said that it is self-willing – but that is your responsibility – to let the distrust proposal be brought to the end by the last speaker. Why not more courage, ladies and gentlemen? Secondly, They measure by two measures. I'm just reminding you: There has been a knowledge of the Constitutional Court for Family Taxation. Do you know what the current Madam President, then family minister, said Prammer? It does not at all intend to implement the Constitutional Court's knowledge of one thing. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] That was the statement then made, ladies and gentlemen! I remember Mertel, the social spokesperson at the time, who said: It is not the task of the Constitutional Court to act politically as a legislator. Do you know what the then SPÖ clubman said? – If it does not fit us, then we make a constitutional provision, and the matter has become, were his words. So far to your understanding. You measure with two dimensions, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Minister Strasser, of course, does what the rule of law requires. - Why distrust? Minister Strasser – respectfully his authorities –, of course, forwards documents to the competent authorities. - Why distrust? Minister Strasser has explained that he does not exert any influence. - Why distrust? You have called for influence by saying that he should at least let himself come to the act. What do you want? Influence! Straster doesn't do that. In the field of asylum, Straster has made an absolutely successful policy and legislation and today states that he will, of course, implement the VfGH knowledge. - Why distrust? We have a successful legislation in the field of civil service, and he has today declared that this knowledge will be implemented. - Why distrust? We trust Ernst Strasser and, of course, reject your request for distrust!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e14257	The floor was reported as next Mr. Dr. Cap. Total residence time: 1 minute. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e14276	We demand respect for the rule of law. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] We call for respect for the Geneva Convention, and we call for respect for Parliament. The way in which the Minister of the Interior has dealt with this urgent question of the Greens today has not expressed this respect. You should know that the issue of asylum is often about life and death, and that it is not a matter of numbers that should be juggled here, but that human fates are at stake here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Großruck: From whom does the sentence “The boat is full!” – Cap said that!]] This request for distrust is justified. This cynical way in which the Minister of the Interior has spoken about it today, this disrespectful way he has expressed to Parliament today, has led us to conclude spontaneously: Only one motion of censure can clearly express our opinion here and express our distrust of this Minister, and we have therefore brought him in.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e14322	The last speaker to speak was Mr Oellinger. Mr deputies, your total residence time is 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e14341	Ladies and gentlemen! Decisions such as those about a mistrust request – I have this conviction; I represent that – should not be made out of an emotional attitude. That is why we would like Greens to wish that, although Mr Strasser did not give sufficient answers, yes, we still have the opportunity to ask the Minister again. What you have offered us today, Minister Strasser, was a refusal to provide information, a refusal to do so in a matter which concerns the core of our rule of law – and not only that, Mr Scheibner, whether anyone criticizes a knowledge of the Constitutional Court! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ]] That is the right not only of Members but of every citizen/citizen! But Mr Strasser does not stand there as a person who is critical of a judgment – he may, for him, do so indisputably – but as someone who has declared to the public that he does not want to execute this judgment! That's what Federal Minister Strasser explained! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Objection to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: He didn't say that! Just wrong! Stay with the honesty in your argument!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today, Minister Strasser has declared that what is happening in his ministerial office is clearly missing from his knowledge. But there is only one that is responsible for the ministerial office – and that is the minister! If his office of minister is squeezed and sniffed, then the Minister bears responsibility for it – and nobody else in this Republic! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] If that happens, Mr Scheibner, outside of any legal responsibility that a Minister of the Interior has to bear in this Republic! Do you know what that reminded me of when I first read the story about Bürstmayr & Co? – I thought: That must not be true! – Two years ago, Minister Strasser made exactly the same accusation to me, supported by a number of colleagues from ÖVP and FPÖ. That's what it said: Elder or Schnabl says the untruth! – To the third possibility that the Minister said the untruth, I then asked him, and then Minister Strasser refused the information again! - That's the way it was! I, ladies and gentlemen, do not want any one of you to apologize for what was said to me at the time, because I, ladies and gentlemen, have been able to stand up for the evidence. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] [[Call the ÖVP: You should apologize!]] But today, Minister Strasser is guilty of any proof that he meant otherwise! That's why he deserves – unfortunately! – in fact, distrust.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e14436	Mrs Fekter has spoken on an actual amendment. Madam President, you know the Rules of Procedure: first of all the part to be corrected, then the corrective part. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e14458	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr. Oellinger just submitted to Mr. Strasser that the Federal Minister had claimed that he would not implement an understanding of the Constitutional Court. – This is wrong and can also be read in the media! Mr Strasser has always said that he takes note of the knowledge of the VfGH and will immediately implement it, but that he does not always feel well what is constitutionally compliant right.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e14491	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We are therefore voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Parnigoni, colleagues, on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for the Interior in accordance with Rule 74. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act. In view of the fact that such a decision is taken by the National Council in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this paragraph. I expressly note the presence of half of the Members of Parliament in the terms of the Constitution quoted above. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to accept it. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Advisory Group X Chapter 65: Transport, innovation and technology
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e14545	We are now entering the negotiations on the consultative group X. The Special Rapporteur did not accept oral reporting. The debate is open. First of all, Mr Eder. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e14573	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would suggest that we look at the transport policy of recent months in the headlines of the newspapers. [[Call the ÖVP:Readtime!]] - Just look, don't read! That's what it says: Closing of 350 post offices. Furthermore, 15 000 railers will be saved by the year 2010. [[Call the ÖVP: Too little!]] “Too little!”, well! A “very good ” report was that. Next headlines: ÖBB chief defends early retirement. – Politfreit für ÖBB-Frührepenungen. – 200 million less for railway development. - Railway in the tunnel without exit. – OEBB Supervisory Board is opposed to politics. – I find that interesting. Close 350 post offices!, was another news. – Furthermore: Postbus will drive on private roads soon. - I'll talk to you later. Other headlines: Hard Court of Auditors on local transport policy. – Tickets are getting even more expensive. This is your transport policy, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and the liberals! These were newspaper reports from the past 14 days or three weeks. Further: Construction manager Huber becomes head of the board of the ÖBB. – Early public health pensions: massive economic resistance. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Next Headline: New motorway parking spaces at ASFINAG are a flop. – Not even that brings you together from ÖVP and FPÖ! Ladies and gentlemen! If you read this, you should actually say – I'm busy in a company too –: The managers who work in these companies are actually sorry that they are confronted with such headlines every day, and that is because politics – these are those gentlemen who sit behind me – also Mr. Federal Minister Gorbach, who is currently not behind me – is constantly interfering in the business of these companies. [[Abg. Wittauer: Don't!]] I can only make it clear over and over again and stress that it is not good for the companies that it is very bad to try to direct and conduct companies through the public. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let us first come to the ASFINAG and thus to the road sector, which is very important. ASFINAG is an exceptionally growth-effective company. In the ASFINAG the debt is growing constantly, on the streets the congestion is growing, in the company the administrative costs are growing, in the company the management posts are growing, in the company the number of gesmbhs is growing; there are increasing. [[Call the ÖVP: Well, is that bad?]] But all this at the expense of taxpayers! This is bad, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The taxpayers pay on the truck toll and on the car pickerl the token I've just spoken about. Now it is about – and I have received an amendment today – that the ASFINAG should also be allowed to enter into risky operations in the case of eastern holdings. With the capital of 8 million Austrians, managers enter into a risk business with the approval of this government in the East. We've experienced all this before, and I can only warn you about it. You really should discuss this with each other. [[Abg. Dr. Wolfmayr: We won't repeat your mistakes, don't worry!]] How's it going? – Minister of State! Mr. State Secretary! Not only in domestic policy, but also in European policy, we have no major successes. We were unable to enforce the Road Costs Directive and the transit agreements. [[Abg. Wittauer: This is not the fault of this federal government!]] We were able to get through with the stretching lines, we have achieved some, but not because the gentlemen in the government have negotiated so well, but because this has been enforced by Members Swoboda, Rübig, Kronberger and Voggenhuber. Let us be glad that we have good Members of the European Union – at least in this direction. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! At the same time, streets are opened. I have recently seen a beautiful picture of half the government – the Chancellor of the Federal Republic and all the gentlemen sitting here on the government bank – cutting bands. The Semmering-Schnellstraße was opened. It was not even opened when it was already in the newspaper that it had to be locked again because the asphalt had to be re-assembled. Ladies and gentlemen! What kind of street opening is it if you have to lock off a few days later to re-establish the asphalt? That's impossible! On the other hand, where we have even held a survey here in the house and discussed it for a long time. What happened? - Nothing happened! Nothing has gone on, we open a new road – a billiard board – in front of the tunnel the cars beat and slip through, so lock and repair. Who's paying for this? – The taxpayers pay this, ladies and gentlemen. So I could continue to add point by point here, but my speaking time does not allow it. There will also be a number of other speakers from my group talking about other points. I think we should try to create an infrastructure for each other, which also benefits the economy and the people in that country.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e14700	The next speaker, who spoke and whom I also gave the floor, is Mr Miedl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e14718	Madam President. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Kurt Eder! The streets have always paid the taxpayers. They use it too. This has not changed since your government's time to this day, and it is good. [[Abg. Oh, yes! The road condition hasn't gotten better! Semmering fast road!]] Mr President, I should like to thank My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I have a much different understanding of how to approach problems, because from my point of view it is not important who sends the package or the letter. For me, it is very important that the universal service is respected and that the package or letter is just that the citizen or the citizen should pay for a service – and now we are right there! – also receives a corresponding counter-performance. - That's important. Mr Eder! We should ensure that the buses and trains drive and that the goods come from one place to another. Ladies and gentlemen! We should not, as politicians, permanently interfere in entrepreneurial tasks. This is a cardinal mistake that has always been made, and we are trying to avoid it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Eder! It is especially important to me to perhaps go down a little and think. What happened? – Nothing has happened for decades, and now a strong government says it wants structural changes. That's not something you can easily fall into. This is not something for which one immediately receives applause from each side, but of course that is strenuous. Mr Eder, the ÖBB has done nothing for decades. [[Abg. Eder: There's nothing more going on now!]] The post has done nothing, no more than the executive, pensioners, health or justice. All these are things that are now being reformed, and I recognize these reforms, because they are really quite clever and good. What happened to the ÖBB earlier? – I just mention one example I never actually understood: The ÖBB, which has to fulfil a supply contract, namely the transport of goods and persons, has also undertaken to be their own best competitor by operating buses – deficitless, of course – and also had their own bakery. All of this has been tried to put into a large shopping basket, but, Mr President, in reality none of the benefits the taxpayer has paid for have been delivered as he can expect. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bauer.]] [[Abg. Eder: Now they don't drive at all!]] – Mr Colleague! You've never been in the economy like I do from your calls! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Bauer.]] Mr President, I should like to thank Of course, we should be careful to move forward on such issues of infrastructure. I think it is good that the optimum supply of postal services and transport services to the population is of great importance. [[Abg. Wittauer: He's not so wrong!]] If one had done nothing, the ÖBB would have driven full steam against a wall. Mr Eder and everyone else, you know that very well. We need – and the reform has not yet happened! – motivated staff, a functioning management and ownership representative who trust this, ladies and gentlemen! But I come again to the Minister for Transport to speak to one another. ‘Rail instead of traffic blinds’ means: This slogan devoured millions of schilling at the time. What has been changed in a sustainable way? What happened then? What has been changed about the structure? Shall I tell you? – Nothing, nothing and nothing again! Now it happens. Ladies and gentlemen! ÖBB measures – I thank you many times! State Secretary Kukacka takes up this with Minister Gorbach. I think we're on the right track. We should now consider what we are doing with the staff of the ÖBB, of which there is obviously too much. It is good staff, which should be motivated and re-educated, with which something has to be done. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Binder.]] – Mrs Colleague! It can't be that the staff will be sent one to one in retirement. We should think about this, and management is called upon to do the same. I'm doing a short sidestep now because that's the same topic in itself – public transport. How is public transport actually financed? Have you ever looked at the financial flows? – There too a reform is necessary and required. The public transport will probably be indispensable in the urban area, in front of a densely built area. I agree that all the other agglomerations outside of Vienna will finally get the level, such as the citizens in the area of Vienna, who thank God for a functioning subway and tramway. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriele Moser: Why are you then for a reduction in subsidies? It is constantly being reduced!]] I would think that the costs caused by the public service are justified, but new structures are needed to enable the customer and the recipient of the service to actually control what is happening. Ladies and gentlemen! A few comments on road safety. Still, the main cause of the accident is alcoholised driving and lawning, the distance behaviour and also the self-reliance- letting when driving. The consequences of serious accidents could be mitigated and prevented by a different approach culture. The main cause of the accident remains the 16 to 24-year-old young men. That's where you have to put. We are for a proper pedagogical punishment. We do not want automatic justice, so there is the driver's license, which is now under review. We confess to this and hope that the review will be as expected. Mr Gorbach, I have a concern: Perhaps it is possible that we will be putting together in the near future for the introduction of the winter tire requirement. I think there's a problem, so to speak, crying for a solution. We should consider whether we should not stop the drivers from changing to winter tyres earlier than before, instead of being permanently surprised by the winter weather. I think that even there could be a legal obligation, as other countries in Europe already have. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to conclude by thanking all the officials of the Ministries involved in traffic. It's a great performance that officials do every day, and I think it's also worth thanking the gendarmen and police who make their daily efforts in the interests of safety on our streets visible to us. In this sense: It's a good budget. With this transport budget we will be able to live well and gain courage for new reforms. We will implement it together. The Minister and his State Secretary prove it daily.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e14852	Next item is the report by Mrs Dr. Moser. Voluntary time limit: 8 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e14872	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Honourable State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I think you remember very well the words of the Minister when he said that he wanted to make a transport policy beyond ideology, a transport policy – I remember – which is realistic and geared to the facts. – So I have it in memory, and you nod, Minister! Now we have one and a half or two years of Minister Gorbach, now we have the second transport budget that has arisen during his term of office, and now we have a situation in total, in view of which I think it is twice as necessary to look at reality. The first reality: In Austria, members of an entire family die in road traffic per week. I am grateful to you, Mr Miedl, for addressing road safety. A whole family dies every week. [[Abg. Wittauer: But the Minister of Transport is very good at building up the opposition!]] Minister! Its transport safety programme aims to achieve a 25% reduction in 2004, i.e. this year. Reality looks different. They want a realistic transport policy. Check the budget! Last year it was exactly € 140 000 for road safety, for the year 2005 it is € 400 000. It is an increase, but, Minister, how do you want to achieve the real goal of halving by 2009, with these minimal resources? Minister! I see, in part, weaker control points, I see fewer police officers on the streets in order to really control road safety, and I do not see, Mr Minister, above all, a premise system, a system “new” in which you do not provide for the main causes of road accidents, namely alcohol at the wheel and, above all, speed crossings. – I correct myself: in an improved form. Speed offences are not an aspect of the premise system! We will discuss this even more closely. [[Abg. Wittauer: This is not fair!]] Minister! The reality is that 930 people die each year on Austrian roads, and I think you are doing far too little for priority number one to create a transport system that avoids this! [[Abg. Wittauer: But not by alcohol!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Minister! Another reality – you know it –: Pollution pollution, health pollution, noise, even land consumption, because environmental resources are limited. – These are realities, Minister! But what do we have in the transport sector? – We have rates of increase beyond the permeable. They themselves know the reality of transit precisely: by 20 percent more truck traffic per month on the transit snow via the burner. – Reality! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Leave the trucks alone!]] Mr Minister, we have often talked about this: The problem is that your predecessors have failed to close alliances at EU level. The problem is also that you do not recognize reality. You now need international allies to bring Europe's real cost-reliance to truck traffic. I don't notice that you're really on the intensive search for allies now, but without them you can't. We don't use anything if we pick up special malts in Austria. The essential thing is that in Europe as a whole, the cost-reality of truck transport must be maintained. Otherwise, everything is for the Würscht’, what we’re doing here, whether it’s also the most expensive investment products, whether it’s also the most expensive sub-internal expansions on the railway, whether it’s also the most expensive tunnel variants at the Brenner. – It’s all for the cat’s. You can read this in the scientific literature length times width, only now is it again in a study by Dr. Puwein's Wifo. If we do not create a genuine cost at European level, we cannot defend ourselves nationally anymore. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Minister! You know very well: A reality of the transport situation is the increase in the price of oil and the various energy sources necessary for transport systems. But what are you doing so that less traffic is necessary to avoid this price gap and to give the finite resources in the oil sector an environmentally sustainable answer? What are you doing for a reduction in traffic, for changeovers, for replacements? Mr Minister, I look at the budget, look at the area of public transport, look at the past budgets and see a clear string concert in the financing of public transport, which I believe is quite able to compensate for the additional price increases in petrol and fuel and to offer other modes of modality. They always say you should think intermodal. I know you're thinking about shipping on the Danube, but I'm already closer to the concern that people can get to work environmentally friendly and have a better public transport offer. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I call you the numbers: In the 2000 budget there were minus 10 million for ally and private railways, and 20 million for the total public transport funding, under the black and free-of-charge regime. Now the financial compensation is again minus 2 million. At the municipalities we have order promotions. In the public sector, the total is minus 4 million. These are loud strings and savings concepts, where I believe that investment should be made! You are right, Mr Miedl! As far as public transport is concerned, we need finally transparent and efficient financial instruments. Mr Minister, you yourself know the Court of Auditors' raw report. Length times Width he criticizes transparency, inefficiency and a partly unlawful procedure. Mr Kukacka, you nod, you know it even better than I do, because you see it all inside, and you accept it. [[State Secretary Mag. Kukacka: We don't accept it!]] They have not yet taken any steps in my observation to ensure clarity in this area at last. We can have better and more quality at the same price, and in order to create better and more quality, we really need to look at the realities in transport policy. Do my opinion It is far too little, and there is still a refusal to reply in the Committee on Budgets. I ask you: When did you sign the transport service contracts or service contracts with the ÖBB – public service services – for the year 2004? When for 2002 and 2003? When for the year 2005? You informed me in writing that you will soon be signed by 2005. They conceal that you have signed the money for 2004 and also the one for 2003 much too late and practically gave the ÖBB the money from the outset without carefully questioning and verifying what actually is for. There's no quality, Minister. You could have acted differently a long time ago. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would just like to say a few words about the railway reform: It has been said that we need a railway reform, and you have also carried out your project. They've been filleting. [[Abg. Wittauer: There was better the Lichtenberger!]] In the future, we'll be in the house. I'm just calling a detail: What you need now in legal agreements between the individual AGs, for example, for Bau AG to be able to cooperate with Use AG and Betriebs AG in some way, will again take a long time. Just look at your consulting contracts that you needed so that you could get the entire ÖBB reform on track some way at all. Costs, costs, nothing but costs! We may have one under the line. January 2005 a state where the people who have rented Kiosk at the station, for example, do not know who to pay the rent because it does not work with the transfer. Look at the legal opinions! You're gonna notice. This is the one aspect I wanted to address. Now the Urrealist aspect, Minister! I really became a complete reality in this sense when I looked at the general traffic plan. He's from your predecessor, so you're half innocent, but you're going to write him, so you're gonna be guilty. The General Traffic Plan is a wonderful list of wishful projects of the national leaders and of desired projects from economic circles. All in all, we have an uncovered check. Who is now financing the investments to be made for the railways? Minister Grasser is supposed to do it. The budget is supposed to do it. The PDOs are supposed to make debts. At the moment, the ÖBB is paying back a little more. In the future, if they are to pay for these general transport investments, there will be a significant over-indebtedness of the ÖBB. These are projects that move beyond any cost-effectiveness. Read it, my colleague. They always talk in the sense of the economy. Put yourself in the situation of an accountant at the ÖBB. You see, there are projects that will never be expected. I already mentioned the Unterinntal. There you only need to look at the “trend ” of November, the current issue. There you can read that Basler & Basler from Switzerland, a consulting company, has clearly confirmed that this route will never be economically profitable, that the utilization will not be given. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shouldn't we do anything? We must not build roads, and now we must no longer expand the railway!]] However, millions of people are inside, including more than one billion, with the effect that we will have the most expensive noise protection wall in the world. Three track tunnels are planned, three-track tunnels with swings! So that's never gonna happen. Now I have just mentioned the train, I could talk much longer about the motorway projects, the ASFINAG. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shouldn't we do anything more?]] You know it yourself, Mr Scheuch, that there are repayment dates until 204. I hope you're not already in the grave. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shy: I'm still sitting there!]] – I hope not from our point of view. On the other hand, I would like to thank you for taking part in the ASFINAG debt repayment. There is a special cost explosion. There is also an imbalance in relation to: 1.2 billion for rail compared with 1.9 billion for the high-level road system alone. I'm just questioning all the banal again and again: Who's to pay for this? Who of you really has so much money, except the taxpayer, of course, who's almost indebted to generations? Minister! Finally: They were probably due to these realities in the transport sector, which are really relatively depressing, often abroad. Your trips abroad are almost legendary and legendary. Recently, you have told us a lot from China, and I really can only interpret this announcement from China in the light of the background that you simply can't take a real look at the Austrian situation anymore. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That was probably Chinese for you!]] What did you let us know from China? You wish for the construction of the transrapid between Vienna and Innsbruck. – Yes, Minister, why do we then expand the West Railway four-track? One kilometer costs €24 million at the Transrapid. Who's to pay for this? What the hell is this? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: What should we move on with? We're not supposed to drive by car and not by train!]] These are Chinese nightmares that you have transmitted to us. This is really an abortion – I can almost say now – of traffic policy wahnwitz, Minister, that one is wasting a transrapid thought on Austria, although it cannot even be built in Germany, where Siemens is headquartered, and only because you have seen a transrapid in China that goes back and forth between airport and Shanghai! Mr Minister, I really can't understand how you can only come up with such thoughts in the first place. [[Abg. Wittauer: Visionaries need the country!]] Excuse me, Mr. Minister, for a realistic transport policy announcement. And what is now available is really air lock policy in terms of the general transport plan, and in terms of the perspective Transrapid are really dream-like. What remains on the track is the simple person with his needs according to life, health, ordinary public transport with appropriate quality and good air and housing quality, which bears with the supply of transport. It's on the track! Please, Mr Minister, you will finally be realistic! Make a humane transport policy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e15117	The next item is the speech by Mr Wittauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e15150	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Appreciate members of the government! Mr Eder! - Has he disappeared yet? . I must tell you that the Federal Railway Reforms, as they were described earlier, are necessary because social democracy and the trade unions have seen the Federal Railway as their personal property. And that was the problem of the Bundesbahn and not this government! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Reheis: To servas!]] Especially you, of the Social Democrats and also of the Greens, have always accused us that there is too little in terms of infrastructure. However, Mr Kurt Eder should know better, because he has made a request, and there is a list for that. – Which major construction projects will be handled on motorways and highways in 2004/2005 with what costs? - What do we have? A1, West motorway: 168,1 million €, A2, South motorway: 436,61 million €, then the A6, northeast motorway: 182 million €, the A7, Mühlkreis motorway: 149 million €, then we have the Pyhrn motorway with a total of 228 million €, then we have the A10, Tauern motorway: 769,12 million €, the Brenner motorway: 17,72 million €, the Rheintal motorway: € 17.43 million and the Danube motorway: € 67.55 million. I could still talk for a long time now, but I do not want to abuse the time, but I think Mr Eder would have to know that a lot is happening in the infrastructure, especially in terms of road. If you look at this more precisely and compare the past, it can be seen that for this Federal Government, especially for Vice-Cancellor Hubert Gorbach, the infrastructure Schiene/Straße was and is an essential factor. And the expansion of rail and road means strengthening the economic location. And the strengthening of the economic location means jobs, not only in construction, but also for the companies that then settle there. Of course, jobs are important for social peace, and that should be a special concern to you. This Federal Government has focused on the development of road and rail: 30 billion € will be used for the projects from 2000 to 2010! [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: Yes, and who pays it?]] We not only want to talk about the future, we also want to talk about the present and what this Federal Government has done. The period from 2000 to 2004 compared with the period from 1995 to 1999 – and if I remember so stupidly, there was a Social Democratic Transport Minister; I am glad that these times are over – what was there an increase? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: A socialist!]] An increase in investment by 32 percent! Ladies and gentlemen, you would normally have to give applause to our Transport Minister for these extraordinary achievements. Or do we look at Tyrol in concrete terms, because Tyrol is especially important to me: This Federal Government has implemented the construction of the Unterinntaltrasse with the help of the efforts of the Ministry of Transport. I can remind you of Mathia's Reichhold. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Who is Mathias Reichhold?]] How long did this take for you? I think we've been on our way for 20 years. We have managed in a short time that the Unterinntaltrasse is now under construction. [[Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser: Who pays?]] The Unterinntaltrasse was necessary to realize the Brenner Base Tunnel. Of course, the Unterinntaltrasse was also necessary to send a signal to Brussels. The signal arrived. We have 50 percent European co-financing in project planning phase 2 – this is about €90 million – and since this is so important for Tyrol, it was even possible through negotiations of our Minister that the Austrian Federal Share will be halved again and the Land of Tyrol will take over 25 percent. What does this project mean, this great project? Within three months we have managed to get the signatures to implement this European society. This project for the future will cost € 5 to 6 billion. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: And who's going on it?]] And we will implement this project – and there are also positive signals for it. Why do we do it? – We know that there can be up to 90 percent growth over the next 10 years, not because Austria is working so badly, but because of European enlargement. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: Read the Wifo study! There's where they're going!]] This is terrifying for all of us, but this government is making future policies with visions, as I said before. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: No one's driving the train!]] And future policy means that such large projects, which also have meaning, will be implemented. Madam President, you did not say much before. You have to listen to me, because these are really important things for the future. You're not a long traffic speaker yet, I know. But this Brenner base tunnel is undisputed among all political groups, which is something we are promoting. [[Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser: No!]] Yeah, maybe with you, because you don't live in Tyrol. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Maybe you should call your colleague Lichtenberger in Brussels!]] I'm just talking about the tip of transit problems – and I know that this may not be all – the increase, because it may be taken away by this Brenner base tunnel. We do not yet have any solutions for the future. What do we do with the traffic that's already there? Vienna: The frequency on the southeast tangent has grown from 170 000 to over 200 000 cars. We have problems in many regions due to this enlargement. But it is true that this federal government works very hard and not only does these projects, but many others also work. Now, if I look at the investments – and this is quite clear – the annual investments for the rail infrastructure: [[the speaker holds a graphic in height]] That was your time until 2000, and then it goes steadily up. And then it is said that this government is not doing anything! These are investments which have already been implemented by the Federal Government! It will be much worse if you look at the development by 2009: That's where you were! Look, ladies and gentlemen, at the Social Democracy! These little beams, they were you, and the big ones, that's this federal government. So you have to be so fair and decent and say: Hoppala, this federal government is doing something good here, and we are supporting it and the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs. - We'll do that anyway. I know, then, that the committee will have everyone with their small projects. You said earlier, we're doing desired projects. Many Members of this House are here who, like Mr Heinzl for example, would like to have implemented a few projects because the region wishes to do so. And he is heartily doing this, and I also know that our Federal Minister gives the answers with a lot of heart and also brings some of the things he considers important to the right track. I think that's important to us, too. I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I call on the opposition to accompany us on this rocky path – as I said, we must also work with the past, the entire debt – positively, at least in the infrastructure for rail and road. And I would also like to give Mrs Moser one more way: The priority system and safety are a key concern for us – safety, noise protection and everything related to it. And it was a little bit intertwined that you brought it this way today, because it's really a concern for us. Alcohol at the wheel is already punished with the withdrawal of a driver's license, you know that. That is why this is not included in the pre-eminent system.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e15371	I declare that the amendment tabled by Mr Wittauer, who has just been tabled by Mr Miedl, Mr Wittauer, Mr Wittauer, and others, has been sufficiently explained in his key points, is also sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. In view of the very large numbering material contained in this request, I leave according to § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure shall copy and distribute this request. Furthermore, this request will be accompanied by the Stenographical Protocol. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e15719	Mr Gorbach spoke next time. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e15739	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen. Estimated State Secretary! We are in the budget debate, and I would therefore like to make a few general remarks on the development of the 2005 budget, 2006 – of course, in my capacity as Minister of Infrastructure and Technology, but also as Vice-Cancellor, because I felt it was interesting that this morning the opposition was very critical of the development of the deficit, because direction 2 percent is going down. If the opposition, especially the SPÖ, expresses itself to sovereign debt, one should really listen attentively because obviously no one understands it more than she does – for this alone the experience already speaks. And I have made the effort to write out once, to find out how the SPÖ Finance Ministers' balance sheet looked out in the 20 years between 1980 and 1999 – also because this statement from the “Bulden-Karli” came back this morning. I can tell you, my Ladies and gentlemen – yes, I like numbers, naked numbers, which are comprehensible, which are verifiable –: The smallest deficit in this phase was 1.7 per cent in 1980, 5 per cent in 1994 and 5.2 per cent in 1995, and 3.2 per cent on average in the 20 years. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: And who was Vice Chancellor?]] I'd mean, whoever's sitting in the glass house shouldn't throw stones. And I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that you should also make your way through – understandable and predictable, honourable Member, for you even slightly, I believe – that, if the economic package I and II had not been and the tax reform had not been decided, we would have an almost balanced budget in 2005 and even a surplus in 2006. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: It's even easier for you!]] – Calculations You're going to do this! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The same applies to tax advisors present: It is understandable that the Wifo has also made it easy to understand that the two economic packages I and II were very accurate because of economic growth in 2003 due to about three quarters of the economic packages I and II and, within this economic growth, particularly, the measures in the area of investment in infrastructure on the one hand and in the field of research and development on the other hand, on the other. This has been recognized by this Federal Government, which the Minister of Finance has also recognized, and I was able to make it well plausible as a responsible Minister of Finance, and I am therefore very grateful to the Minister of Finance Karl-Heinz Grasser that, despite these tense conditions or the special situation in which everyone has to save around – we have heard this morning: 4 per cent of Italy, 4 per cent of France, Germany, which is certainly in a special situation, we know, is also well above the targets – and still have a very good budget deficit, if you can talk about it, and yet we increase expenditure on research and development on the one hand, we increase expenditure on infrastructure investments on the other. And that's what someone has to do to us first! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Thus, our Minister of Finance, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, is in fact an “infrastructure and research promotion Karli” – that would be the right concept, and that is good. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! From the general budget to the special budget. I am concerned to draw your attention to the fact that it is wrong for infrastructure and research and development to be spent less than in the current year – neither 2005 nor 2006. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] I think it should also be understandable for you, Mr Commissioner, that precisely because the budget has undergone a slight change due to a structural change and refinancing of the Austrian Federal Railways in the context of the Bundesbahn-Reform – I hope you have not missed it – and that a large part of the interest rate service has also been lost from my budget, so the comparable budget approach of my ministry would have reduced to €2 263 million – I would also like to carry out the bill for number with you. The base is thus €2 263 million. You can easily check that the chapter total for 2005 is €2 290.4 million, that is, more, and for 2006 €2 317.7 million, i.e. more. So stop pretending to the population that this government is spending less on research and development, on infrastructure investment than before – that's wrong! [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: You're planning things you can't pay! That's the problem!]] It gives 2005 – thank God, because it is also active in employment, because it is good for the economy, because it is good for jobs – more than this year and last year, more than ever! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: That's not true...!]] Perhaps the following because Mrs. Moser meant: He also does nothing for environmental protection or for quality of life on transit roads. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: This is the ignorance!]] – I would also like less traffic there, I would also like less transit traffic, but the transit contract I did not do. I tried to save what's still to be saved at the last moment. [[Abg. Gradwelt: Ha, he was good!]] That's not successful, as you know. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter:... failure!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] I am actually grateful, Mr Eder, for the fact that at least if the public is not in the process, our basis of conversation is a very factual and also good one. This also applies to Mrs Moser, because, as you have mentioned, Mrs Colleague, I am trying to detideologically approach transport policy, because it is a concern of the people who, I believe, should be dealt with in a cross-party manner. [[Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser: Yes, eh! But what does that look like?]] That is why I have always involved you – and you will give me the right – when it was necessary and if it was good for our country and our people, also in the discussions, as have the transport speakers of the EU Parliament who have so praised you. I will do so in the future, even if I have to get angry in Parliament again, that very different sounds are being made here. But I'm doing well, we're still going to find a constructive way. Mrs. Dr. Moser, noise protection measures: not unimportant for the population on the rail, but also on the road. The development of noise protection measures since I was responsible for: Total expenditure for 2003 in the rail sector 32 million, in the road 28 million, totals 60 million €. In 2004 – Budget responsibility! –: Rail 34 million, road 48 million, makes a total of 82 million €, a plus of 37 percent! [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: I didn't even argue!]] What does it look like in 2005? – Rail 34 million, road 52 million, total 86 million €, plus 43 percent compared to 2003! That is to say, it is only one example of proof that we are very likely to have in mind the quality of life and the protection of the population and to spend as much money for them as never before. Take note of this! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: I never disputed that!]] And I will continue to do so, even if you are very opposed to it and you do not want to know anything about it. Mr Eder! Talk to each other, you said. I'm very happy to do that, but then you have to listen. Because the co-ownership then has a value when one goes into argumentation with one another. I am always trying to do this, whether this has been the case with the priority system, which has been a lot of discussion during the last few weeks, whether it has been the trans-European networks, whether it has been the ecopoints or whatever. You know that. I am also going to be unable to get out of the concept of such budget debates. But I'll tell you the following: It is, I believe, an unfair accusation that there was nothing further in the Road Costs Directive discussion, because in this discussion, in the sense of a vital interest for our people, I have voted as nowhere else and as I dare to say, other transport ministers in other countries do not do against the opposition. This is a very important concern to me, and I have tried to make myself aware of an added value here and not to agree with it for decades. We were actually agreed that this added value must be there and otherwise we do not agree that we do not scatter sand into the eyes of the population and say, now we have something great, and then we cannot start anything with it. They themselves know how the proposals were at European level. You know for yourself that I have constantly tried to lobby and win friends. This has been quite successful in some areas, for example when it comes to defending applications for bans on weekend driving and night driving bans in Tyrol. There we have more and more allies, that is just successful lobbyism. The road cost guidelines did not succeed, and we actually agreed: We do not agree because no added value is recognizable. That is why I ask you not to accuse me of having done nothing about it. By the way, I will continue to make great efforts on this issue to deal positively with this matter with the new Commissioner Barrot. ASFINAG-cults: You also have to say that the ASFINAG takes as much money as never before. €1.2 billion a year for the high-level road network, that hasn't happened in previous years. You must also say that the ASFINAG is God Thanks to the only effective electronic toll system operating in Europe – the only one working! A few days ago, this led to the big headline in a daily newspaper: German Minister for Transport Dr. Alpes: I'd have gone the Austrian way. You have not been able to read such headlines before. I would therefore like to say that the responsible of the ASFINAG – not my spring at all – deserves great praise that we have this functioning toll system, which looks at all of Europe and beyond. This means €600 million of revenue, which, less administrative costs, will once again be made available for the expansion of the road infrastructure – and nothing of course! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mrs Moser, you said there were a few checks that you would like to have more traffic police. Oh, my God, I can say that I would like to! I am not responsible for this, but coordinate very well with Mr Strasser. I can tell you that we did not do more – i.e. more efficient – traffic controls with almost the same staff than before. Truck controls have increased to 5 500 per month, which is, internationally speaking, a peak value compared to the traffic level and to the personnel level. That means we optimized the whole thing. They know that this is not insensitive either, because truck controls on transit roads are important, but they also trigger something, and there is a need for a sense of fingertips that our economy will not be disadvantaged and will be in a competitive disadvantage if, for example, our economy is on the way to Germany's roads. I am in very good contact with Stolpe on the one hand, and with Lunardi on the other to find the right means. [[Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser: You have the administrative penalty...!]] If you accuse me that safety on Austria's roads is not sufficient, I must say: It's too serious a subject, otherwise I'd start laughing. Because it has never been so intensive and so much worked on increasing safety on Austrian roads! I recall the multi-phase driving licence, I recall the pre-remark system that is under review, I recall the various working groups that have also produced results that have been implemented legistically, the working groups “Security Trucks”, “Safety Small Trucks”, whereby we involve motorcyclists clubs and professionals, the various ministries, the traffic spokespersons of the opposition. So I don't know what you want. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: I want less traffic deaths, easy!]] Of course, 931 road fatalities are too much on Austria's roads. By the way, the 40 000 on Europe's roads are too many, and even the 60 000 when I take the EU-25 – the 40 000 road deaths still refer to the EU-15 – are too many. In the European countries, ask who is the subject of security in the direction of: We have to do more!, in the councils, we have to speak again and again! [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: I think the Frenchman...!]] They will be answered: the Austrian Minister of Transport, because this is a particular concern to him. This is the case, I have developed this trademark, and I am proud of it. That is why I do not want to leave this accusation in Austria that there is no security. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This will continue to be the focus of my transport policy. That is why we will continue to pursue this objective, the ambitious goal – you have cut it a little bit: not until 2009 – to halve the number of road fatalities on Austria's roads by 2010, and also try to reduce accidents with personal injury by 20 percent during the same period. That too is a special concern to me. They have also mentioned – if I may go into it – that the expansion in the Unterinntal is too expensive. We already have to decide: Should we expand the track, or should we not? – You can discuss whether it can be a little cheaper or a little more expensive. Cost efficiency and cost control will be intensified there, also on the basis of the Court of Auditors' raw material report. Mr Kukacka will be able to confirm that we had already set up a working group in the summer before this report was available in order to increase efficiency in promoting public transport. He's also on the road very well, I just got a report about it recently. So it's going very well, I don't have a bad conscience either. There are possibilities for improvement, but I would also like to say something about this: As a federalist, I am to a great extent a advocate of the principle of subsidiarity. People should also be responsible on the ground to explain what they are doing with the funds we make available to them. In normal cases, they already know whether it is reasonable that even one third of a bus or two thirds of an empty bus travels in the rural area from A to B, because there is no higher utilization, but we still want public transport to be provided in rural areas with equivalent facilities. That is what I stand for, and I will be able to explain it to the Court of Auditors. Nevertheless, we will strive to increase efficiency there. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Unterinntal is a good word, as I would like to mention in this debate that this is not by chance a runway of the Brenner base tunnel. The Brenner Base Tunnel was the only project in the TENs, i.e. the Trans-European Networks, which are particularly supported by the European Union. Due to skillful negotiations in recent months, Dr. Moser, six TEN projects have now become part of a project, with a value of about €12.25 billion, up to 20 percent – the 50 percent planning costs – co-financed by the European Union. This is an offensive, active European transport policy à la Austria! Why don't you be proud of it? [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser: Who will use it? Who'll use this?]] Therefore, the Danube can be expanded, so cross-border rail routes and networks will be better expanded. But I'll give you the right. A minister of transport in this government has a hard time picking up 30 years of social-democratic transport policy in a year. I can't! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Reheis: This is incorrect!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'll tell you something. We're good on the road, we're good on the road. [[Abg. Gaál: This is very polemic!]] Our neighbours envy us as regards both the expansion of the road infrastructure and the expansion of the rail network and possibly also the shipping routes. Of course, aviation is part of that. I have not only thought of this magnetic floating path – to mention it – between Vienna and Innsbruck. I said that this would be a great thing, because in two hours from Vienna to Innsbruck, it would be a real alternative to air traffic and to individual transport, which you would actually have to welcome. A few days ago, you were driving this vehicle with me, before, Mr Schröder was there and you also looked at it. I also meant that it would be possible to use cross-border – because you meant: only in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: Bratislava would have done well!]] To Bratislava, that would also be imaginable! They would then be in about 14 minutes, in a maximum of 15 minutes in Bratislava, and this cooperation is an important one. So let me be a little visionary too! Transport policy also needs visionaries, which has nothing to do with losing reality. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: It must have passengers, that's the main problem! What do visions benefit me if I don't have passengers?]] Finally, what I would like to say is: We're good on our way. We must work together because the challenges are of course enormous; they grow faster than one can build. We have also started creative financing operations which were not possible in the past in order to work out the general transport plan properly. I can only tell you that we need not be afraid of the discussion in this respect, just as in the field of research and development, which I have not now excluded, because it is not important to me, but because we will still have enough opportunity to talk about it. I'm just saying something: Statistics Austria predicts a research rate for Austria of 2.27 percent of GDP in 2004. For the first time, this is clearly above the European average, above the EU cut, which will be 1.99 percent. This makes me proud, and that is why we, the Austrian Federal Government, continue to do so, even so, namely successfully!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e16129	The next speaker was Mrs Fleckl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e16148	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mr Federal Minister, Mr Vice-Chancellor, I would have expected more from you than this flat saying at the age of 30. You know exactly what you're doing, for example, in the transit contract. [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The ladies and gentlemen of the government parties were already there, and the failure in transit policy has to answer Chancellors and Foreign Minister and one of the many, many Transport Ministers. [[Deputy Chancellor Gorbach: Minister for Transport, Member of Parliament!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Mr Wittauer! The Austrian Federal Railways have not heard the SPÖ! You'll forget something. [[Abg. Wittauer: You did as if they had heard you.]] They have heard the Austrians for so long until the black and blue government has come and privatized, sold and burned everything! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wittauer: You did so..., that's the truth! That's where the union has an hourly wage...!]] Looking at the 2005 transport budget, it must be noted that the Austrian infrastructure – as Mr Lopatka said – really looks black. [[Abg. Wittauer:... you are unpleasant when you say the truth!]] By 13.3 percent, the transport budget for 2005 is lower than in 2004, which makes it one of the final lights and is really not worth it. There are cuts in all areas, and the worst will be the Austrian Bundesbahnen. Your lead, Mr President-in-Office of the Council and Mr Vice-Chancellor, is clearly visible in this budget: How do we ruin the mobility of people, and how do we bring people from the rail to the street? [[Abg. Wittauer: The best local transport system...!]] At the ÖBB, the budget is reduced and saved at all corners and ends. Staff... – Madam President! [[Abg. Neudeck: Did the SPÖ...?]] I don't know if the gentlemen want the electricity inside. [[the speaker points to the microphone]] You can report later if you want to speak. [[Abg. Neudeck: There's no current in there!]] At the ÖBB, the budget is reduced and saved at all corners and ends. Employees will be required to retire, apprentice workshops will be questioned for the future, countless lines will be briefly deleted by your missing transport policy. And take commuters She will be able to get to the agglomeration centres in a short time – this is already the fact – and in the rural regions the opportunity to be mobile by public transport. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] Urgently necessary construction measures to improve passenger and freight transport are simply not carried out. I also think here again of the Semmering base tunnel, which was very probably also included in the TEN priority list, but was deleted by failure. [[Deputy Chancellor Gorbach: No, it's inside!]] They know exactly that the Semmering base tunnel has also stood inside and was then stretched out. [[State Secretary Mag. Kukacka: He's still in it!]] Mr. Vice-Chancellor! I appeal to you in the sense of the Styrian population and the Styrian economy: Finally get through to a decision! Jobs and economic growth depend on a good infrastructure, you know as well as I do. On my question in the Committee's deliberations, you said quite lapidar: The realization of the Semmering base tunnel depends on the existence of all necessary permits. You can't tell me seriously that this decision is only about legal approvals. The experience on this subject in recent years shows that a single state captain has a place with two State Secretarys and a Federal Minister in his hand and makes no decision possible! What is more important, that of a Federal Minister or that of a head of state? The head of state says nothing about the subject at all, gets stuck in the "Waltraud-Stolls", sends out every inner-party confrontation skillfully and thus does not stand up to the Styrian economy and its population. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hakl]] [[Abg. Wittauer: Just talk about it because... clean in the ÖVP!]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Dreams You don't have an unfinanceable magnetic hoverway through Austria, which would bring insanity costs of €24 million per kilometer! [[Vice Chancellor Gorbach: I do not dream...!]] Take advantage of the investment of €300 000 to revise the general transport plan, and make it a reasonable and financial transport concept, as the SPÖ presented it with the concept of “Way to the Future”! Thank you. [[Abg. Wheeler: Where?]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e16384	Next, Mrs Mag. Hakl speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e16403	Madam President. Federal Minister! The Secretary of State! High house! The debate today, in particular on the part of the opposition, is somewhat lacking in its level. I would recommend that, instead of always just reading headlines from newspapers and “leaving in,” other readings are also done to develop a few solutions. We have, I believe, a transport policy in which your cooperation would be possible. I have the ‘Report of the High Level Expert Group chaired by Wim Kok’, the interim report on the Lisbon Strategy, of November 2004: “Accepting the challenges”, and of course there is a lot in it about research and transport. On page 22 it says: ‘1. Realising the knowledge society The Lisbon Strategy requires: Information society: Set up a regulatory framework for electronic communications, support the dissemination of ICTs – information and communication technologies – to create favourable conditions for e-commerce, to strengthen the European leadership in mobile communications technologies. Research calls for further development of funds and education and human capital. I think a lot has already been said about research and development, and we will debate it individually and in addition. In the field of e-commerce and telecommunications infrastructure, this Federal Government, I believe, has done a great deal: Last year a new telecommunications law, a functioning market, an excellent infrastructure in the field of mobile communications, the highest mobile density in Europe, soon the new standard UMTS throughout Austria, but in particular the promotion of the development of a broadband network. Firstly, we have provided for the tax deductibility of broadband connections and then we have the means to get hold of them. At the beginning of October, the “eEurope 2005 Index”, a study by Fontainebleau University together with SAP, was published, which for the first time brings together all the eEurope indicators of all 25 EU members. Austria has consistently top rankings there: in the field of e-government the very good fourth place, in the field of e-learning the very good third place, in the field of broadband now fifth place. The broadband initiative, for example, leads to a 100% broadband coverage in Tyrol, a very difficult area, being funded by the federal government and the country within the next two years. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Thank you very much. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In the area of infrastructure, I would like to address a very central point also in the Lisbon strategy. Page 40: “5. Cooperation for an ecologically sustainable future’. Mrs Moser! “The Lisbon Strategy requires:” – it says here – “... Decoupling economic growth and resource use: the fight against increasing traffic congestion, congestion, noise and pollution with full internalisation of social and environmental costs; establishing a Community framework for the charging of transport infrastructure (Eurovignette); sustainable use of natural resources and reduction of waste.’ Minister! Within the framework of the Lisbon Strategy, Wim Kok calls for the Eurovignette, which means that roads are to be touted across Europe – a demand which the Austrians under this Federal Minister, under this Federal Government, have repeatedly raised, a demand that we must really implement within Europe, so that we can benefit from the infrastructure to be created. Mrs. Moser! You said something absolutely shocking to me today. I will try to give your colleagues from the Green Party in Tyrol the knowledge of this too. We build in Tyrol the Unterinntaltrasse, about which you accidentally read an article in the “trend”. I really invite you to come to Tyrol and to talk to the people there, especially those who run the project, in order to acquire half a reasonable level of information as a transport speaker. A high-performance road has certain requirements. These include minimum radiuss of one and a half kilometers and very small slopes, because on a rail you can't ride over small Mugel like on a road. As a result, in the so densely populated area of the Unterinntal, we have to go into the mountains again and again because of the large radii, because the valley is nowhere at the right places three kilometers wide, or we have to build this route as a high-performance route, sand entire communities and villages. And I ask you, Mrs. Moser: Is that what you want? [[Abg. Moser: Moser: Who says that we want to build a high-performance line? I don't need a high-performance track!]] The only alternative is: Either we do not expand the railway there, leaving the existing massive bottleneck with regard to capacity. We could not even add a powerful third track to it! Or we put the track on stilts – that's expensive and ugly, even the noise question is not solved by it – or we just put it into the earth and occasionally have to drive into the sides of the valleys into mountain tunnels and we have also solved the noise problem with it. This is expensive, but it is not just a noise protection measure, but a method of construction that has also become necessary by the high-performance rail requirements. At the same time, it is also an environmentally friendly, air-saving construction. And you're just making yourself up today and saying that's too expensive! You have to reflect on it. These things need to be looked at, and I cordially invite you to get the necessary information about them. They also said that there was no demand for more capacity. Of course, this project is designed of capacity for the construction of the Brenner base tunnel. There's an exact time frame. But where's the first bottleneck? - It's just in the Unterinntal. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: This is between Munich and Rosenheim!]] That's why it's being expanded as the very first. Do you know that we had to move school hours back in Kufstein by 10 minutes, because the teachers with the limited passenger trains could not be in Kufstein in time due to the capacity constraints? There is no longer any registered passenger transport in the Tiroler Unterland, because the capacity for this is not available. They're talking about "billion grave" because a third track is underground. [[Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser: Read it! Read the study!]] I can tell you the following: I am grateful to God not only for the “trend ” and not just for the headlines in the newspapers, but for the environmental impact assessment documents, which are, of course, more comprehensive. A third underground track is nothing to build from Jux and Tollery, and I think it would be irresponsible to spend even a giant more than necessary. But as long as the Brenner Base Tunnel does not yet exist, it is necessary to set up a locomotive on a high slope, and this locomotive tension can be built in order to keep all four routes interactive, just in this underground area, because we in Tyrol do not have the necessary surface area where it is necessary. So, as long as the base tunnel doesn't exist, we need a pre-stress lock, which you have to switch on somewhere. All these things you have to look at, I'll invite you to do that. I believe that the Green Party President in Tyrol, Mr Willi, is also willing to inform you about this and bring you together with the necessary persons. I would therefore ask you to support such an important project, which will also support environmental protection, emission reduction, noise protection, and above all the operation of transport, because our motorway will no longer be able to take up the additional traffic expected. We want the shift to the rails. But only with these additional infrastructures, which can only be built in the middle of the mountains, is this possible at all. Mrs Moser! I would therefore ask you to cooperate here and to increase your level of information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e16491	Mr Grünewald spoke as the next speaker. Voluntary time limit: also 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e16509	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! Mrs Hakl, thank you very much for expanding our knowledge. We're already communicating with each other. This was so instructive that even Mr Kukacka, the State Secretary, wrote, and that is, of course, what. It is extremely difficult to debate when 50 percent or just about it find the budget good to excellent, but the others do not. That doesn't make things any easier. If you look at the budget issues of Grasser – which have to be due, I assume – and even look at the home page of the ministry, then you see – and even experts say this – that through the division of competence of research in at least three places, if I may allow Grasser to leave once, the budgets are not easier to read, so that everyone finds any number of letters for his thesis, and then of course it is up to them. That means you suffer from it. We have said more often that the competences of research should be combined even more than before, so that we can read budgets too, because they are there for that, otherwise we do not need to debate at all. If – now I really only give back the figures of Grasser – the research-effective expenditure that really looks at research-related expenditures of three resorts – I now start with Gehrer, continue with Gorbach and land at Bartenstein – then it can be seen that these have been reduced from € 267 million in 2001 to € 210 million in 2004, because 267 are more than 210, then you can agree. If you look at the Gorbach resort now – I don't say he's doing this too hard, he's negotiating budgets too – we see that from 2004 to 2005 a plus of €22 million is for research and development. You can also find other numbers. Now one can say that this competition between three ministries is not good, and now I am quite selfish, because I honestly find the election difficult: Should you like me as a university member now support more Gehrer or Gorbach? This will be complicated because Gehrer has at least had to admit in a response to a request that her budget has declined. Mr Vice-Chanzler, also Mr State Secretary, this has a great impact on you. She writes – I quote –: The reduction in the scientific budget, which I mentioned, has never admitted, does not mean that less money is available, but that lower payment commitments are made in the areas mentioned above. - And the areas you're dealing with. You will need to budget € 25 million for structural improvements over two years, about your research and technology development council. That's your money! Where is less expenditure for goers? – In building renovations, new buildings, space procurement. You know where the deficits are. They're paying her. So competition and competition, you see, how great... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Felzmann.]] Please? [[Abg. Felzmann: What do you want?]] What do I want? – I want to see what is research effective, also rising and not pure repair costs, and then through research... [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] I'd like to explain it to you. The government has always talked about sustainability, including you. What do the research fund budgets look like? Do you want me to read it to you so you can believe it? It is not true that the opposition from the outset says the untruth. The FWF's regular budget continues to decline, from success in 2003 to € 58 million in the Federal Estimate 2005. This is less because 58 are more than 43. We will also be able to agree on that. And there it says: Multiannual budget due to better planning in research and development. We want to be able to plan, want to be able to count and not tremble every year. - Nothing of it! The other funds are provided through the National Bank, ERP et cetera, et cetera. But that's all insecure, you don't know. So you can't plan for more years. What about the National Research Plan, which also concerns you, which is more or less formulated by a government-appointed Council in discussions with bowls or without bowls? He's part of Parliament. All four parties agreed that a Council appointed by the ad personam government should not draw up the National Research Plan. When you read about it, you actually find nothing substance that should allow for the following. The research foundation stands inside, the funds are allocated according to the National Research Plan. But there is nothing about what priorities are or should be, or how the funds are otherwise to be forgiven. That means: pure with the Parliament and discuss with experts. Promotion of scientific societies: Mr. Vice-Chancellor! There is a single state in your budget posts, along with other research funding companies of the Carinthian Economic Fund. But there's not what he's doing. Economic promotion funds are not necessarily applied research. What I would like to know from you or would like to have broken down better in the future is that one can strictly differentiate between economic promotion, structural improvement and applied research. Not all that is budgeted under applied research is also research. If I equip myself with computers, this has nothing to do with applied research. When I was in the 20th century. From the beginning of the century to the e-lok, this has nothing to do with research, but perhaps with structural funding. But, please, be so honest and say what it is. What else would interest me: Smoke-callat – now I make a small jump – has always said: In financing the health care system, the financiers and the providers, i.e. beneficiaries, belong separately. Then please explain to me or explain to me – it is a delicate area, I admit – the role of Siemens and Böhler-Uddeholm in the Council for Research and Technology Development! The funds allocated, which are planning research priorities, are at the same time geared towards funding. Siemens, a billion-large group, pays no more than 4 percent of its profits in Austria. This seems a bit strange to me when you get up and cash yourself, which the Council then forgives, or decide what to promote. I have also seen such roles at universities that have appointed Gehrers, who are alternates, for example, of Consemuller and have brought first grants, perhaps even to Tyrol. But that's actually sausage when it comes to fairness. Another point is: It is in the Federal Government's research and technology report, how great all the research resources in Austria, in particular third-party funds, have been increased. And then it's really great and proud – Mitterlehner isn't there, the other economists aren't here either –: This is due to the Austrian economy. The economic contribution is ultimately significant for the budget increase in absolute figures, not as measured by GDP, in the research field. If you look at it, you see: It's not like that! This was not the Austrian economy that caused these budget increases. That means your incentive systems are not actually grasping. And last but not least: I would really ask you to defend yourself and prevent funds for structural improvements at the university – rooms, rehabilitation measures et cetera pp. At the expense of research funds budgeted for project funding, the Research and Technology Council is being misused. This requires additional resources, because I do not need to discuss fair competition if the infrastructure is not competitive internationally. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hakl.]] Mrs. Hakl, please? [[Abg. May. Hakl: It is argued that projects need infrastructure, also at the university!]] Yeah, I know you need a desk to write. But if you say you're doing cultural promotion and you donate a few desks so that the poets can close and write the novels of the Romans, I'll find that a little shortened, Mrs. Hakl. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To conclude: Now there was a lot of criticism. But there was also something that I liked: You and your State Secretary have formulated a balanced, differentiated critical position on these PR actions of an elite university. I think that's good, but you might be able to discuss it at a next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e16585	I shall now be next Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Ahleitner the word. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e16604	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! High house! Mr Grünewald, we can now of course continue the calculations, the examples, because I already think that all figures for research and development must be taken into account, on the one hand, from the federal proposal, from the foundation, from the offensive. If only I look at the Federal proposal alone: In the field of innovation and technology there is a clear increase: in 2000 € 201 million and in 2005 € 225 million. You can't say that less is being made available in this area! I am now only talking about the Federal proposal, but the Foundation and the offensive funds are still being added. I think that we are really on an excellent success course with regard to the development of funding and investment for research. Mr Gusenbauer said this morning that he did not see an increase in the funding for research and development. I'm sorry he's not here now – apparently he's not interested in research and development at all – because I wanted to ask him – perhaps the colleague can take over from you – in which year he lives, whether he is still alive in 1996, 1997 or 1998. At the time, this area really didn't matter to governments; they had nothing left for research and development at all. Especially in 1998, under the German Chancellor's Climate and Minister of Science One, there was a research budget which was half smaller than that of today and around half smaller than that for 2005. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] [[Abg. May. Darabos: You live in the past!]] I can tell you exactly the numbers. You can then also look at the graphic, because it is perhaps easier to understand than numbers. [[the speaker shall keep the relevant paper up to date]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I want to be fair to you: I not only take the figures from the Federal Estimate, but I also take the figures from the National Bank and from the so-called Technology Billion. In 1998, 197 million € were available for research and development, in 2005 – the sum of Foundations, Open Resources and from the Federal Estimate – over 409 million €. This is more than double, and I think you must finally note that the government is on a very good path in the field of research and technology. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: There the broukal would have screamed again!]] I also find it very encouraging, and I would like to thank Mr Vice-Chancellor and Mr Mainoni for their concern for the promotion of women. In the next budget, more than €1.5 million is available for development perspectives for women in technology and research. For decades, a policy that has been abandoned in this direction has brought Austria to the conclusion in terms of employment and in particular the leadership of women in technology areas. FEMtech – a special project – will improve career opportunities for women in these areas in the future. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Investments in research and innovation are the driving force for the economy, secure jobs and therefore stand for our prosperity in the future. And it's really up to you: Finally stop yelling and juggling around with some false figures, but really make a constructive contribution to this government's policy and agree to this budget too!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e16683	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e16702	Mr President. Government members! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The telecoms liberalisation has undoubtedly increased competition and thus brought about a correspondingly noticeable price reduction for all. The market liberalisations that have now been used in Austria, for example UTA, Tele 2, will push this competition back and will undoubtedly reverse the price spiral. We have not heard a response from the government to this development so far. In the context of non-conception on the issue of Internet telephony, as well as the lack of resources for the broadband initiative, the examples suggest that there is very little interest by the government in improving Austria's economic location. The Government's inactivity on this issue will lead to sustainable damage to the economically disadvantaged regions in particular. Federal Minister! That's your responsibility. Even if you go, the damage remains. You are therefore invited to act in the interest of the regions. Similarly, the privatisation strategy – or better: the non-strategy – is also inconceivable in the question of Telekom. With your zigzag course [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the ÖVP]] It has done a great deal of damage to the company, as well as with the lack of answers to the future issues of the Telekom infrastructure in Austria and with this behaviour also harm the economy and employment in the regions. As far as public buses are concerned, the integration of Postbus AG into ÖBB has resulted in a strong Austrian market participant. But with your privatisation – you also want to get the better parts of it in this area – you probably get upset with friends They bring these strong market participants back to the exit very quickly. In conjunction with faults of the corporate strategy, with the ambiguity of how the management will act, or also the unclearness of European conformity with an Austrian solution, the question of why Postbus AG was needed if only problems were left at the end. It was probably just an ideological question. In addition to Semmering Base Tunnel, Brenner Base Tunnel, closing post offices – to address only a few open questions in the infrastructure – the budget presented does not offer any solutions or forward-looking financing. The budget presented is merely a continuation of unresolved problems, and therefore we will not agree to this either.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e16756	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Controller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e16774	Mr President. High house! I would like to talk about innovation and technology in part. ==References== The enlargement of the European Union took place in May of this year, I believe, is definitely clear that no more jobs with low-cost jobs can be our goal. Today's information, knowledge and education society is rather about creating jobs based on new research and development. We are clearly on a very good path. I would just like to remind you of the increase in the research allowance to 25 per cent and the increase in the research premium to 8 per cent. I would like to remind you that research expenditure in Austria has doubled within ten years, that in the last four years additional €1.1 billion has been allocated to research and development, and that the foundation of the National Foundation for Research, Technology and Development has been set up with €125 million annually, of which 45 million are again in the FGG. This means that we currently spend 2.27 percent of GDP on research and development, 2.5 percent in 2006 and will reach the Barcelona target by 3.0 percent in 2010. This is a very proud project, but this government is on its way to creating it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] There are special projects, such as the involvement of technical universities. “FH plus” is a very important project in order to exploit this potential through cooperation with the economy. And what's very, very important: There is no risk capital to carry out developments on the market. To this end, the “seed finance program” has been developed, which has financed 136 companies with €35.4 million so far, and it has been shown that after 62 Exits 31 capital repayments have been made, that is to say, had a positive effect. – Actually, a very good balance sheet. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Certainly, the research landscape is not very easy to see. We have here the former research funding fund, the one with 1. September 2004 in the research promotion company, together with three other companies, has risen and is spent at €59 million in the budget. We also have the Science Research Fund for non-profit research, and the Ministry of Transport also provides non-target innovation funding with €31.8 million; an increase of €1.3 million compared to the previous year. We also have expenses for the former research centre Seibersdorf, for ARC GesmbH with new research priorities; in addition, the distributed Federal Office Arsenal, for which €3.6 million is available. For road research, €1.5 million is available. This will cover important future issues, such as nanotechnology, transport technology, bioinformatics and environmental system research. Ladies and gentlemen! If you look at this budget, you can see: We are on the right track, and we know very well that this government has set the course in research and development for a good future in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e16835	Mrs Haidlmayr is speaking on behalf of the next speaker. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e16853	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gorbach, I have tried very hard to see in the budget whether there is funds for the accessibility of public transport. And I was quite surprised, because there are no such means again. [[Federal Minister Gorbach lifts his hands slightly high and then turns the palms upwards.]] – This hand movement means to me: Bad luck! But not so with me, please! Her predecessor, Mrs Forstinger, abolished this money, on the grounds that: It fits everything anyway, and because everything fits, it is no longer necessary at all to make any resources available in this area. – Mr Minister, you know: It doesn't fit at all! [[Deputy Chancellor Gorbach: Well!]] – Saying You don't: Well, yes! It really doesn't fit! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you, Mr Minister, would only once be willing to come to this working group, which is in your ministry... – Yes, you opened it at that time, but you have never dealt with the problems; you have never heard these problems because you have never been at these meetings! [[Vice Chancellor Gorbach: I used them!]] But that's another subject. Mr Minister, if you could find out what's going on there, I think it would also put up your hair: We've been sitting there for a year and a half and a half, and at each meeting, we're trying to make a PowerPoint presentation that shows what's not coming and how good everyone is. – But implemented, Mr Minister, is nothing to this day! Absolutely nothing! On the contrary: The situation is getting worse. If you ask someone on the track today because you need anything, everyone says: I don't know, I'm not responsible! I'll tell you what I'm going to do now – 7th. October has been – it has happened how “lusty” that is when you drive the train. I wanted to go to Munich. I say: I wanted to go to Munich by train at 6:14; Departure Vienna-West to Munich, with no changeover, with a large-scale carriage, as it actually belonged. At least that's how it was planned. Since I know that most of the time something doesn't work, I didn't come to the Westbahnhof at 6 a.m., but already at half past six. At 5.30 in the morning I was at the Westbahnhof, went to the switch and said: Greeting God, I'd like to go to Munich by train at 6:14, but I need an entry-level help, someone to help me! - Tell me the official there on the switch: There's no one there! – I said that was not true: You're here too! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] I say, So if you're there, you just need to call and see that someone else comes besides you so I can get in! I'm not talking to you now, I'm going out on the platform right now! – I actually went out on the platform and looked for the wagon, which according to the train plan should have been there. I went down on the platform all the way down, back and forth, but: I don't find this carriage! I just don't find him! I recognize such a carriage, even if it has no pickerl, already at the door of the window. These wagons can be seen by this, but only experts know that. - That's it. Now I caught the train companion, who was already there, and said to him: You, I want to go to Munich now. – On that he: Jessas Maria, with me? – Yes, I say, with you and the train! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Where's the wheelchair wagon?, I asked. - In addition to the train crew: We don't have that today! – I say: Stop! You must have the car! It says he's on it! – He said: No, we don't have it today! That's what I'm saying: And how am I supposed to come to Munich now? – He says: After S’ take the train at 6.10 o’clock, which goes towards Innsbruck, direction Vorarlberg; get S’ into the train, go S’ to Salzburg and then head S’! That's what I'm saying: You, if you leave here in Vienna at 6:14 a.m. and the other one at 6.10 o'clock, I will probably not catch the train to Munich, because that is the one on the side track. What am I going to do? You're probably not going to put in a carriage in the meantime, as I've experienced it all the time. – Well, he said, S’ get in there, that’ll fit! Since I really had to go to Munich, I stopped in the train, because there was the pickerl on it that there is a wheelchair toilet. I got into the train. And when I got in there, I saw: There is such a small sign, there is “WC” on it, and there has been an arrow through it and that has flashed. So that's what it said: WC's breaking! – I said to the train companion: You, what am I doing on the train? There's a toilet, but that's broken. – On that he: Yeah, that's it too! [[Abg. Neudeck: But this is already a parliament, isn't it?]] So – and then the train already drove, because there was 6.10. In St. Pölten it has already stunned like in a hunting pit; in our car no one has spoken anymore, because it has fallen like that. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] You can't even imagine that! Everyone went to the toilet there, but unfortunately the rinsing didn't work. What a state this is, you might imagine! – In Linz the dirt has already run out of the cloister. Then, in Salzburg, I got through and said: If the toilet isn't sucked off, the train won't go anywhere! [[Congratulations and bravado with the greens.]] [[Call to the Freeman:A OeBB fairy tale or what?]] This train had to go to Bregenz. Now you can imagine when it smells in St. Pölten as the people “are apart ” when they arrive in Vorarlberg. Arrived in Salzburg, I waited for my train, which is supposed to take me to Munich. The train wasn't there, of course. I've known before that he won't be there. After I have not been able to go all the way to the toilet, I am at the station to the toilet and wanted to go to the wheelchair. Unfortunately, it was locked up. But it is a reference to that, you only need to go to the cloister and get the key, then you can go into the disabled toilet. Only: Until the cloister were two steps. That is, if you can go the two steps up to the cloister, then you usually don't need the disabled toilets either. – These are the conditions, Mr. Minister, which we experience on Austria’s railways every day! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Recently I got the result of a survey that of 100 percent of the trains that would have to travel daily as a large-scale carriage with wheelchair toilets, not even 33 percent are on the road. That is, from the 47 trains driving on the West Railway, when it goes up, drive 20 to 25: West and South Railways! You have to imagine that, please! What do you need a train plan, the Internet, for which the phone number 05 17 17 – which you best forget right now – if nothing is right, Mr. Minister?- Oh, my God! It's just nothing! And these are really conditions where you think you travel, not in Austria, but somewhere in a country that is financially very poor. Minister! They'll do it like that and say it's all right anyway. Why don't you take a train with me? [[Abg. Neudeck: We're not a contact market, we're a parliament!]] Give it to me once! Look This is what you're looking at. - You get out of the train in the early morning and say: I have now slept from Vorarlberg to Vienna; my hairstyle is not as it should be, but I am well asleep! – You know, I'd like to look like my hairstyle when I arrive at the station! I can't even drive! There is no single train across Austria where there would be a trailer. There is no single night train with a wheelchair toilet. And now the worst comes – and you have to imagine this, Minister, because you are also responsible for this –: We now have a lot of new trains – we have the talent, we have the city shuttles, and unfortunately we also get the Desiro; you know that. Of course, you can't enter the city shuttle alone, but if you somehow manage to get in, you have a 60 percent gap. If, on the other hand, the door is not closed, you're out again, so it falls down! - So, you can't use it. Then there's the talent. You can't go into the talent alone, but there's a wheelchair toilet. Only this wheelchair toilet is so small that you don't bring the door. So that means when I drive in there, the back of my wheelchair stands out. And in addition, I have to – you have to imagine that! – climbing over a rod – it stands there – so that I can get to the cloister. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Marizzi.]] [[Abg. Marizzi: This is crazy! That's true! That's funny and sad!]] Minister! I only wish myself one thing: that once in this house anyone is willing to think. This bar – we said that two years ago – is a shame! Then we were shown photos where a non-inhibitor sits in the wheelchair in the short term and comes as a model for this toilet use. And he climbs – that's visible in the photo – over this rod so he gets to the cloister. You have to give it to yourself once! Then we said: That's a grudge! Forget that! We don't need that! Now we get the new Desiro, and see there: What's there? – The bar is gone, but the door doesn't go either, Minister. And if you believe it's our interest that we sit outdoors all the time, just because we have to go to the toilet, I have to tell you: Mr. Minister, that's not it. I expect you to finally put out money, which is intended for accessibility-free traffic, so that the ÖBB is really forced to do so, so that mobility-affected people can also ride the train. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Minister, at the end of the day: I'm expecting an appointment from you where we're going with the train. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] We only need to drive from Salzburg to Zell am See: We need to log in 72 hours before that! – If you drive from Salzburg to Zell am See, you must report 72 hours before. You have to give it to yourself once! And why? – Because these trains drive without personnel; there is only the driver on the train and no one else. And if now a wheelchair driver comes and says he wants to drive there, then special staff of Salzburg will be removed. [[Abg. Gaál: He's done!]] You have to imagine this: He then travels to Zell am See, packs it up, goes back empty; and if he wants to return, he comes back empty, the wheelchair driver gets back in, and then you drive back together. Mr Minister, if this is the transport policy of 2004, I do not know in which world we are and where you live. Minister! Please do not make this hand movement anymore, because it is not yet appropriate. [[the speaker lifts her hands up a little and then turns the palms up]] We do not yet have what we need, which is a barrier-free public transport. And this one, Mr Minister, is up to us, and we expect it from you too. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e17049	The next speaker was Mr Walch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e17068	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! What Mrs Haidlmayr has said here will also be right. The Minister has therefore listened. But once you see that 30 years – or decades – nothing happened on the Bundesbahn. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. I don't know.]] [[Abg. That's right! Yes, I do!]] Imagine what they did! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Now something is happening! Now, for example, the main station in Linz is being rebuilt – everything new! –, many railway stations are built accessible. But everything doesn't work at once. What the left side has slept for 30 years, we can't fix it overnight. [[Abg. Neudeck: (in the direction of SPÖ) I even think they have rebuilt them!]] I have to say to Mr Eder: Mr Eder accused the Minister of: There must have been a tunnel opened somewhere, and the next day he was locked again because the asphalt was broken. [[Abg. Eder: Somewhere at Semmering!]] – The Minister is not employed by an asphalt company! [[Cheerfulness with the liberals and the ÖVP as well as ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. Eder.]] You, Mr. Eder, need to know that this is not paid by taxpayers. If you were in the private sector, you would know that there is a guarantee and that this company that does not work properly must come up for the mistake. [[Abg. Eder: You can't drive! Locked off is back!]] – But the Minister doesn’t do asphalt, I have to tell you. Ladies and gentlemen! On and on, you have to go out here and thank Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister for Infrastructure, if you look at what has happened in recent years, since we were in the government with the ÖVP, on infrastructure measures, on road constructions and so on. [[Abg. Gaál: Take your seat, colleague!]] The ÖBB, where you have only made deficits, are now being rehabilitated! I am also opposed to sending people home there, and the people, the employees of the ÖBB, are also opposed to sending them home. They say: We want to work! – Therefore, it is restructured. With regard to service law, trade unions must go here once, represent the interests of workers and say: Yes, the possibility is that I'm going somewhere else! - Don't boycott, co-operate! – Now I am speaking, colleague, and not you! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy, who keeps the front page of a “Kurier” edition with the headline “Office: Wave of Early Pensions Costs Millions” up.]] That, I think, is important. If I look at the budget there was in 1994 or 1995 to 1999, what happened at that time, and if I look at the road constructions, the motorway buildings, for example, the Mühlviertler motorway, which is very pleasing for me, which are now being put on pressure from the Minister of Infrastructure, then thank you very much. I really want to ask you to see this, too: Something's happening now! The Minister is planning, but he is also building! But you have planned, planned, planned – tested, tested, tested – planned, planned, planned – and realized nothing. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Eder.]] It is now under construction: for the benefit of the population, for the benefit of the economy, for the protection of jobs! – This is how the infrastructure looks in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e17196	The next speaker was Mrs Binder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e17215	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address one aspect of transport and infrastructure, namely rail and road safety. The fact is that the funds for the railway infrastructure have been reduced and, above all, that, not in the last 30 years, Mr Walch, but last year, through the decided ÖBB reform, the Austrian federal railways, as Mr Haidlmayr has described, are almost inability to do so because, my group has not yet done so. [[Abg. Wittauer: That's not true!]] Ladies and gentlemen, in fact a confusion has arisen and the responsibilities... – Mr Wittauer, I have seen you, I have heard you, I pay attention to you – and now I am speaking! [[Abg. Wittauer: That's not true! You know that!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Miedl, if you say it's clear that employees are well qualified there, and a company that has so many employees, the employees have to stop elsewhere, then I mean: It can't be that simple! I think that there are fewer and fewer trains, and that is why we need fewer and less railways. I'm looking forward to the time when the train users will have to take the train driver's test, so that there's a railway at all. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] So that's the success! – Mr Vice-Chancellor, you cannot deny it: You do not know how next year the Austrian Federal Railways will actually work. It is a falling quality to notice and feel. The punctuality remains to be washed. Mr. State Secretary Kukacka! As Sankt Valentine you drive to Vienna at least twice a week or three times a week. I truly know what is happening on the Austrian Bundesbahnen. And of course it is also to be said that all of this is also at the expense of security. But one more topic, since I still have 2 minutes of speaking time available: It's too easy to say: That's a company, and this one has its own responsibility. – That’s too easy! I think that Mr. Vice-Chancellor Gorbach should, above all, agree with his State Secretary Kukacka that these conditions, which currently exist at the Austrian Federal Railways, are really being corrected so that this company and, above all, its employees have the future again. Second area: Road safety, especially for the large group of children, who are actually the weakest in road transport and are exposed to many dangers every day. Mr Hakl called for constructive contributions. I therefore make constructive proposals, Mr Minister, Mr State Secretary: on the one hand, the installation of yellow-coated protective panels and on the other, red-and-white soil markings for protection routes, which will have the effect and success of improving visibility and, above all, clearly increasing safety on protection routes. – These are points that are essential to protect our children, because we know that the children are the weakest traffic players. We also need precise facts and facts so that we can actually take action. I have now also kept two posts in a request to you, and I think the safety of children must be important to us.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e17324	Mr Lopatka has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e17343	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you for your support. Mrs. State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What the two previous speakers have mentioned here is the best proof of the need for the reforms that we have begun, because we do not want to have such conditions in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Binder: Four years have enough that nothing will work!]] That's the best thing: that we're guilty of what you've missed for decades. [[Abg. Binder: Four years are enough, and it doesn't work at all! Four years have been enough! – Mr Kukacka is delighted! That was always the goal! Four years you've needed!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the short time available to me, I would like to address another area which should at least be mentioned in the Minutes: this is the field of research. Here, too, the SPÖ does something that perfectly dominates it, namely to be there once and to be exactly on the other side. The zigzag, which is also specified by SPÖ in the field of research, is unique! In summer, the chairman has still spoken for Elite universities. In contrast, his responsible scientific spokesman and also the education speaker stood: Both Broukal and Niederwiesers have meant they don't like it at all. Then the Wiener SPÖ also spoke and meant that if you speak of Elite universities, this can only be in the context of your having to reject it. The Vienna SPÖ said literally: “Elite universities are not the solution, but the problem.” This “concept... must not take place in the SPÖ’s policy”. Two days later, SPÖ chairman Gusenbauer spoke again and said that twelve to 15 elite universities in Europe, one of them in Austria, would not be able to keep up with the US. That's exactly the big difference to our policy: With you, it's a zig, a bag, a back and forth. You really don't know what you want at all. [[Abg. Silhavy: You don't know yourself, that's your problem! You can't listen and don't know yourself!]] What we want, I can tell you with a sentence: We have greatly increased the funding for research and development and will continue to do so in the future, because this is a key to the positioning of the Republic within the Union of 25. It's just a shame that we don't have any support from your side here, because you just don't know what you want. With us, people know where the journey is going, namely, into a good future!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e17425	The next speaker to speak is Mrs Rester-Hinterseer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e17454	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. State Secretary! High house! I hear this message, I alone lack faith, Mr. Lopatka. I would like to begin with a quote from Anna Segher’s famous novel “Transit”, which wrote about the Marseilles of the 1940s, emphasizing the sentence: Something had arrived away from us, so lastingly lost that we could not even remember having ever possessed it. - Quote. [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: What is that?]] At that time she meant the home, the lost piece of land, where you belong. I am aware of this on the subject of transit policy: There's something so sustainable about you that you don't even know how it could even go. Mr Vice-Chancellor, you know how the situation is, how catastrophic it looks. There are several problems that have long been known: Bilateral quotas for truck transport with acceding countries are missing. The new road cost directive has failed politically – I am sorry, but the negotiating position has been grossly bad for so long that it has long been unscrupulous by the government, preferring to people that there is an improvement here. And: The ecopoints are replaced. – I only remind you of this, because you seem to have forgotten it. In our budget, we have a budget approach of €4,000 for the year 2005 for ecopoints payment. I don't know, are there any outstanding payments? - I don't know. [[Deputy Chancellor Gorbach:.. Open proceedings!]] It is not even possible to speak of serious initiatives at EU level, e.g. on the basis of the Alpine Convention's traffic protocol. The Alpine Convention is nevertheless so thinly taught. We will be taking the presidency next week, and there is not even a budget approach to this! – So much for the Alpine Convention. We also hear fairy tales of traffic prevention and shift to the rails in response to the budget requests. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: These are not fairy tales, Mrs. Colleague! No, fairy tales told the woman Haidlmayr! They were fairy tales!]] This is inconceivable in view of the very opposite actions of this government. On the contrary, Mr Scheuch! [[Abg. Wittauer: You can't read numbers, you can't read facts!]] For example: Tauernachse. Let's talk about the Tauernachse! This is an axis that is even mentioned in the Accession Treaty, 1989. There is an pending question, a disputed question on the EIA, which is not and is not clarified. The population in the Gastein valley is left completely unclear, as it continues now. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: For this we build in the Mölltal!]] I can only tell from the budget that a bridge is planned alone, but no tunnel that would only contribute to the discharge of the population. Something that's still very dramatic: There is an interesting, almost funny turnaround in the other line of argumentation of this government, namely in the case of combined transport. This is quite a wonderful example of how sand is spread into our eyes. On the one hand, the success of combined transport is referred to here until the 1980s. Until the eighties! – Normally it is that Mr. Vice-Chancellor, referring to this time, vents the SPÖ-Mandatare and says what happened back then, was all cheese – but it was obviously great in the combination traffic. For the last two years, however, the Minister of Transport has simply dropped under the table. He says that 1994 saw a significant increase in combined transport by 20.45 percent, but he does not tell us: What is it now, 2004? And what was 2003? – We do not get any information on this at all. [[Abg. Wittauer: Because you know very well that we have very different framework conditions in Europe!]] The preference of the road is obvious, Mr President, we know that very well. The combined transport is still in its infancy, as there is no progress at all. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] On climate protection and transport – this is a tragic chapter anyway. You know very well that transport is one of the main causes of increasing greenhouse gas emissions. From 1990 to 2001, we have an increase in transport alone – you know that from the Environment Committee – by 49 percent. This is not a number that could be rejected. However, we hear from Minister Gorbach that consideration is being given to the future, and here – especially cynical from my point of view – Mr Vice-Chancellor points out that, in his view, it would be particularly good to implement local initiatives in this area. [[Abg. Wittauer: Sure!]] The municipalities are therefore invited to become active in the area of transport to make transport policy. [[Abg. Wittauer: The heads of state, the state governments! They're in charge!]] - Highly interesting! Is it now at once the competence of the communities to centralize transport policy? How to understand this paragraph? To conclude: The gender aspect will be particularly highlighted, Mr Grillitsch, whom you already know well and externally; the gender aspect in rural areas: Men and women should be treated equally and should be given equal opportunities. How does it look in traffic? – We know that women use public transport and the men drive their Audi A8 limousines. In doing so, they usually do a way, that is to say, those in work and return, because they cannot be expected to carry their little chefs further than just to the door of the house or from the door. [[Abg. Lens: They discriminate against women!]] Women do this day – you must know for yourself, Mrs Colleague – on average, five to six ways and very often by public transport. But we do not see anything in this respect, which is not at all reflected in the budget. [[Abg. Wittauer: That's why women live longer! You're more on the move!]] In my opinion, this is a poverty certificate in 2004 in a budget approach, which is particularly evident that countermeasures can be expected here. [[Abg. Scheibner: There is no man there of the Greens, and you speak half an hour!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e17645	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e17663	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary of State! High house! Mrs Rester-Hinterseer, when you talk about the two-track extension of the Tauernbahn, you talk to me directly from the heart. That is where I have to revise my entire speech and go into it, because we are doing exactly this two-track extension of the Tauernbahn. You only need to take your limited view of Salzburg once and look at Carinthia. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We're expanding double-track. The route from Mallnitz to Pusarnitz is being extended just two tracks. Thank you, Hubert Gorbach! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It is not only this expansion, it is also other projects. Carinthia has been disadvantaged for more than decades – and that is why I spoke – and for decades red transport politicians have only been in the central area. Vienna built and forgot about Carinthia. There are many things that are good for us in this general traffic plan. I'm just thinking about projects like the coral tunnel, I'm thinking about expanding the B 100. I am thinking of this two-track extension of the Tauernbahn, but also – we will be on 4th. Celebrate December – on the following: We'll hit the second tunnel tube at Katschberg. We will meet there and will bring further solutions to Carinthia's transport problems. We will implement another project that is important – important for Carinthia, important for Austria, but also – and this is very important, Mrs. Rester-Hinterseer – important for all of us. It does not matter and it cannot be the future that will be permanently prevented. When I think of the construction of the second tunnel tube on the Katschberg, memories of how cheap party politics is being made are awakened in me. Mayor Köfer, Spittal Mayor and SPÖ Landtagsreiter, one of the social democratic hopes in Carinthia, placed himself on the highway one month before the Carinthian Landtagswahl, saying he was preventing this tunnel. We liberals have introduced ourselves constructively, we have created constructive ideas and have developed an overall concept because we have not only thought about the tunnel, but also about the framework conditions. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Cheerfulness of the speaker.]] [[Mr Rest-Hinterseer and Mr Pirklhuber.]] – My clubman tells me to keep my speaking time. But this issue is important to me, and that is why I will continue to accept this issue. It was important not only to build the second tube but also to ensure the accompanying measures. For 30 years, the Lesertals and Liesertalers were comforted, comforted by social-democratic transport politicians for measures promised to them: Noise protection, accompanying environmental measures, all of this has been promised. Red transport policy at federal level and absolutely red majority at Carinthian level. Nothing, absolutely nothing was done! It was all promised, but nothing was held! [[Intrusions of the Abg. Eder.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have joined with a good federal government and with a good transport policy of the country of Carinthia. We're building the second tunnel. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The fascinating at the end will be: Mr. Mayor Köfer will stand in the first row and cut the band. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e17758	Mr Marizzi is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e17776	Hopefully we cut many bands, because this is very important in transport policy. I would like to say one thing: It's not all bad the government does. [[Demonstrative applause among the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] - Wait! – But as you do, it is bad, always to say, 30 years – now my colleague is stupid – social-democratic mispolicy, financial policy, debt policy. I can remember that stupid was the Secretary of State, the Secretary of State. He forgot. We know very well that there must be unanimity in a federal government – and this also concerns you, Mr Vice-Chancellor. And who were the transport politicians? – These were all for the road’s ÖVP Transport Ministers, who also participated in these said 30 or 20 years. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Eder: Road construction was always ÖVP!]] But I don't want to go closer to that now. We weren't the best either, you weren't. That the opposition here always has to say Hallelujah... – Yes, the red lamb shines, Mr. Colleague stupidly, I only have a minute's speaking time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] What Mrs Haidlmayr said was funny on the one hand for some. I say, for some, not for all! But in reality, it was sad. I am convinced that the Minister – he would be wrong if he did not do so – will accept these things. I have to say one more thing: We were together at the opening of the new section of the Semmering-Schnellstraße. Mr Eder has not said that the Minister is guilty because the covering is slippery. He didn't say that. He just said we carried out surveys and so on. What about quality control? What about the accident victims? – That’s where everyone stands, Mr. Scheuch, bands are cut, but when the people... – Yes, the red mayor. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: The red mayors are in the first row and open!]] He also cut tapes at the S 6. But I'm asking: Where are the consequences? There are accident victims. This street, for example, is in my district. I would be glad, Minister of State, if you said, okay, tomorrow it's done, I'll talk to the ASFINAG people. - Then no one's gonna get upset. We were not infallible either, but it seems to you that not even the quietest criticism applies to you. Mr Lopatka said: With us, people know where the trip is going. – Mr Lopatka, since the year 2000 the commuters know in what direction it is going: 30 percent increase in the price of the ÖBB! – Nice trip, Mr. Lopatka!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e17856	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e17885	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to talk today about research and development, because I too, as the representative of a government party in previous years – Mr Eder, if you have a good memory, will remember – have often criticized the fact that we are investing far too little in the future with the budget. [[Abg. Eder: That's right!]] Now we have for the first time a federal government that invests as much in the future as no government has yet. [[Abg. Eder: Even less!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It is no coincidence, Mr Eder, that the research rate, which has been 1.5 percent of GDP for years, is now 2.3 percent of GDP. Austria is fifth in the European Union. It is also no coincidence that people like Professor Aigerger, Professor Felderer and Dr. Consemüller talk about a big litter, about the attractive research site in Austria and about a quantum leap in research policy, ladies and gentlemen. That is the merit of this federal government! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It must be a truly fascinating task to be active in a government that understands politics as what policy is to be, namely to shape the future and to invest in the future. In my opinion, this is politics. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! I envy you for this function, because you have come to a government in which what we all expect from a government to shape the future and invest in the future. In this sense: Good luck! Let's continue this path together!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e17944	Mr Heinzl is speaking as the next speaker.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e17963	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Dear Secretary of State! High house! It is unfortunate that the funding for railway infrastructure projects will also be reduced next year. On the general transport plan, Mr President-in-Office Moser says that these projects can never and never be implemented by means of the budget. Therefore, all further investment decisions must be taken to ensure that the entire axles are finished between the nodes, because only those are really usable in rail transport. For the economically successful continuation of the most heavily loaded railway line in Austria – and this is just the West Railway – it is absolutely necessary that the expansion of the West Railway as a high-performance train be speeded up. It is high time that the construction stop for the St. Pölten freight train is finally lifted. [[Abg. Wittauer: It's going to be extended!]] Mr Kukacka's statement that, for example, St. Pölten's freight transport system was not built until 2016, Mr. State Secretary Mainoni, in his solemn speech at the opening of the tube on the west railway, said that the construction stop was – he said it literally – “a sign-citizen's strike”. Ladies and gentlemen! The construction of the St. Pölten freight transport system is absolutely necessary – I am firmly convinced of that. That is why I would like to make the following request: ladies and gentlemen, [[Abg. Wittauer: Member! That's what happens! Patience!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] High house! The extension of this project has also been repeatedly demanded by Mr Pröll: In each of his Sunday's speeches, he calls for the construction of the St. Pölten freight train. [[Abg. Wittauer: That happens!]] I am very excited, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP-Nederösterreich in this House – 17 you are – how your voting will be today in this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e18057	The resolution by Mr Heinzl and Mr Schasching, which has just been read, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mr Grillitsch has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e18079	Ladies! Gentlemen! Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! - 2 minutes! 1 minute – even shorter. [[Abg. Neudeck: 3 minutes!]] This government is truly on the road to infrastructure development. That's the difference: Not only can one look back constantly, but one must look at the situation and look into the future. I believe that this expansion is really an engine and an investor for infrastructure in the regions of Austria. And I am very grateful for that. There is a record for new motorways, 55 kilometers will be handed over this year's destination! In 2003 it was 39 kilometres. The federal government also makes a significant contribution to the expansion of the federal roads. In 2004 there are 540 million €, currently 31 major projects are under construction or in planning. As far as my home region is concerned, I have to say: Due to the improved accessibility and in particular the opening of the road tunnel through the Semmering for traffic, there will be an increased volume of traffic in the south. Therefore, it is also necessary to close the gap from Jüdenburg to Friesach. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Who should close this?]] Now there is a plan from Jüdenburg to Scheifling; we will also try to submit a four-party proposal here in Parliament so that the route to Friesach can also be closed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In this sense, I still think one point is important for all these regions. The first step has already been taken with the growth package. We also need to force broadband technology for rural regions to ensure that these regions are a sustainable economic location in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e18134	Mr Gradwelt has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e18153	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! Dear colleague Grillitsch! I give you the right in many areas, especially in the last area mentioned, and hope that we will actually come to bring this gap together. [[Detonatative condolences of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Klaus Hubert Auer]] I hope that, after seven months of discussions within the political groups in this House, this request can actually be made. I would really be delighted in the interests of the people of this region. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But, Mr Grillitsch, there is another point you have raised, which Mr Lopatka has also mentioned. You said: Oh, how great we are in the infrastructure, how great we are by rail! Dear colleague Grillitsch – a superior – dear colleague Lopatka – a steirer – Mr. Verkehrs Spokesperson Werner Miedl – also from Styria! What to do Then with the EC 236 in the morning, with the EC 237 in the evening – the only early or evening connection from the Obersteiermark to Vienna and return? What are you doing? What is Mr Kukacka doing? Lock! This train won't be driving in the future! – So far to look into the future: a black tube, out because there is no light in this tunnel, ladies and gentlemen from the government parties. And you're responsible for that! [[Abg. Lens: Very original!]] Let me say one more word on infrastructure and technology policy. [[Interlocutory note by Secretary of State Mag. Kukacka.]] – Mr State Secretary! I'd be careful in your place, you don't know what I have to say yet. In the Committee on Budgets, we have asked what it is like to look like with intelligent transport systems in the field of research. We received the answer: Great, great, there we are crazy good! Mr. Federal Minister or Mr. Gorbach, his State Secretary, Mainoni, were there, and as a grey eminence, perhaps as a caretaker, Mr. State Secretary Kukacka was sitting next door, because he was stupid witness. I look at the budget, I pay attention to how I am – and I recommend this to you too: What is under the “Intelligent Transport Systems” approach? – Success 2003: 116 538,60 €, Federal Estimate 2004: zero, Federal Estimate 2005: zero. And now, Minister of State, ladies and gentlemen, look at what you have answered to the written question in the Committee on Budgets: These priorities remain, but not in the budget! – They claim things that are not true! They say the untruth in the Committee on Budgets and in the written answers to the questions. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Because of the future in technology to speak in infrastructure, that is really measured!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e18213	Mr Glaser is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e18232	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. State Secretary! I would like to address two areas of transport: One is infrastructure development, the second is public transport. On the subject of infrastructure development, I am actually concerned that we really understand the enlargement towards the east, even in the area of railway and road development. There is a lot to be done in this regard. What I personally or lacking as a Southburger country is that we do not have a high-level link in the south of Austria, for example – neither in the area of railway nor road. I think that's absolutely necessary. It is also necessary that we establish a high-level railway link from the north to the south of Austria. In principle, it seems to me that this is the Semmering tunnel, or whether that – even better for me – is the Aspang area, the changing area, but if both do not come, then it comes over Hungary. And that, I believe, is not what we should strive for. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With regard to public transport, it must be said: It is clear that there will have to be some change here, that we need to rethink a lot in this area – some things we have already heard here. I simply believe that it is necessary to maintain a minimum level of public transport in all areas – city, countryside, rural areas. It is also clear, however, that there must be some new solutions and that we cannot continue to remain in the old-made gels. I therefore support the efforts of the Federal Government that we are really trying to involve countries and municipalities, regions in public transport, because this is the only way that will lead to solutions that are really useful and which will not be implemented. The countries and regions should be able to plan and decide, of course they will also have to pay. But I do not think this is negative at all, but I believe that there can be really sensible solutions from this area. I believe that this federal government has really taken a good course, that this concept of re-planning this public transport, urban transport, which is really useful and also the ultimately effective way for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e18277	The next item is Mrs Bayr's speech. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e18295	Ladies and gentlemen! In 2003, Mr Schüssel and Mr Grasser promised that the 2005 tax reform would give Austrian wings and that innovation and growth would only be implemented in this way. We can determine: The wings are first rusty and second, and the start is a maximum start with a stutter engine, especially in the fields of technology and innovation. The major announced offensive in science and research is in the budget with a change of €3 514 million in 2004 to just €3 545 million in 2005, which means a reduction in real terms. It is also particularly negative that the donation for application-oriented research and such research companies has fallen from € 85 million in 2003 to € 50 million in 2004 and is increased by only one million to € 51 million in the 2005 budget. It is also to be criticised that increases, if at all, take place especially in the so-called offensive programmes, while regular basic funds are only increased by 0.7 percent. However, the offensive programmes are, first and foremost, not very sustainable and, secondly, they are also very problematic in the democratic decision-making structure of the allocation of funds. In addition, they are used to a considerable extent where there are programmes or existing institutions. This means that innovation is quite lost and that in most cases offensives cannot be spoken of at all. As in many other chapters, there is also a lack of progress in the technology budget, the lack of adequate teaching, the lack of any innovation, and there are also several reasons to agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e18330	Next item is the report by Mr Haubner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e18348	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Transport routes are the life lines of each country and the prerequisite for economic growth and the development of regions. Transport infrastructure and its quality are key factors for the competitiveness of an economic location and important conditions for our quality of life. We require speed, flexibility and reliability, we demand cost-effective mobility of persons and goods, but complain when money has to be used for this. But, ladies and gentlemen, the quality and expansion of the infrastructure cost money, which is thus in our economy. This is the first time that the European Community has been able to make a significant contribution to the development of the European Union. This involves answering burning questions that need to be answered urgently for both the economic location and our subsequent generations and their quality of life: Questions of transit through Austria, the increasing volume of transport in general, the expansion of alternative means of transport and the optimum protection of passengers and the environment. The answer can only be: This is achieved by creating, maintaining and developing the necessary infrastructure and by investing in environmental policies. The budget for the “Transport” chapter shows that the government is aware of this challenge and provides appropriate resources. 3,1 billion € are available for the expansion of rail infrastructure and road infrastructure in 2005 and 2006. I think the government is putting the right impulses at the right time.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e18388	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Lap. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e18406	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr Gorbach used a quote at the 2004 budget, and he said at the time: I'm going everywhere, provided it's moving forward! The research can only be found: It's not going forward, it's in the circle. Apparently, there must be sand in the automatic gearbox. In the 2005 budget there is no increase in appropriations for this. The government has also undertaken to be 2.5 percent of GDP by 2006. We stand at 1.9 percent of GDP in 2004 and not at 2.3 percent of the research and development rate, as my colleague has said. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Where's that?]] [[Abg. May. Controller: How do you get these numbers?]] Another example of that is that you are in the circle and you are unable to carry on innovation is the following: The research and development agents are fragmented, the money becomes net less, and other actors are much more strengthening their research and development measures than the federal government. I still have the following specific question: What does State Secretary Mainoni do? [[Abg. Steibl: Work!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Work!]] In my opinion, this government is innovative in the inventing of burdens, but leaves it very low in innovation.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e18481	Next item is the report by Mr Kößl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e18499	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I think we can say, unlike SPÖ: A satisfactory budget will be decided today. There has never been so much money invested in the expansion of rail, road and waterways. I would like to thank the Secretary-General Kukacka, most of all, for the investment in flood protection. especially for the area of Amstetten, Strezberg, Wallsee, Ardagger, but of course also in the oeuvres of Upper Austria is a very important aspect. We have a flood disaster behind us, and I believe that with these measures, with these investments that can be made in the coming years – € 104 million are available for flood protection – we can guarantee some security for the population. However, as a safety speaker, I am of course also pleased that many things have been thought of in the area of road safety and, of course, are also in implementation. I hope that through these measures we can work together to reduce the number of fatalities.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e18535	The next item is Mrs Scharer's speech. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e18554	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. State Secretary! Something's wrong. Mr State Secretary, you have voted in the Budget Committee on Special Women's Promotion Programmes in the field of Innovation and Technology, and you have declared it a priority political mission. Mr Achleitner – I do not know if she is still present – asked the Budget Committee what it looks like in terms of budgeting for the FEMtech project. However, De facto is budgeted zero for this. For example, there is no single euro for women in research and technology, nor is there any euro for brainpower and FIT-IT. – How do you explain this, Mr State Secretary? [[State Secretary Mag. Mainoni: I'll be right there. I’ll explain it then!]] Women's promotion is for this government – and I think you too – only a lip confession and speech bubbles, and you don't even seem to have a bad conscience. But you'll have to explain that once. Also interesting would be how seriously you take gender budgeting and above all share the impact and sustainability for women and men equally. One has the impression that these are only alibi concepts for this government. What do you do with educational, health, economic and social analyses? – Obviously, you want it to be based on this status and withdraw as a government. It is important, I think, in the context of gender budgeting the question: What does politics want? Which direction should it go or where should gender mainstreaming and gender budgeting be directed? What are the sanctions/must be in case of non-compliance? Unfortunately, these approaches are not recognizable in this budget. This budget is an unimaginable one, offers little positive accents and shows that the trend of missing economic and labour market policies will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e18591	Mr Mag, State Secretary, spoke from the Government Bank. Mainoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e18610	Mr President. Dear Ladies And gentlemen! I should like to address the issues of research and technology development, although the other issues, especially the transport issues, are very important to me. This is indeed a success story of this government, whether it is the railway, whether it is the combination of train bus and mailbox, whether it is the ASFINAG. But my colleague, Kukacka, will certainly go into it in detail. Return to the research area: First of all, I should like to say that in Austria, in the area of so-called indirect funding, i.e. tax opportunities and measures, we are really at the forefront of Europe. First of all, I remember the 25 per cent research allowance, and I also remember the 8 per cent research premium. In addition, the reduction in corporate tax starting next year is certainly also an incentive to settle in Austria. I also refer to the Group Tax Agreement, which for us will be another competitive advantage vis-à-vis the other countries in their choice of location, the Headquarters Strategy we have chosen. The research funds, ladies and gentlemen – and I put this right here once and for all – are growing throughout the years 2005 and 2006. I read in detail: In 2004, we have €211.5 million in the ordinary budget, €225.6 million in 2005 and €229.9 million in 2006. In percent this is a plus of 6,92 and finally a plus of 8,96. This is an increase and not, as opposition always tells us, a reduction in funds in the ordinary budget. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The offensive funds – which are not included in the ordinary budget but available to us – for extra-university research amount to € 88 million for the coming year and € 96.6 million for the following year. Today it is € 79.2 million. So there is also a considerable increase, and your statements on this – I have to say it unfortunately – are incorrect. Finally, the share of the National Foundation, which is €85 million a year, together with the other funds is €398.6 million in 2005 and €411 million in 2006. This is an increase of 10 percent of non-university research funds, ladies and gentlemen. This leads us to the path we want to take, and to the goal we want to achieve, that is to 2.5 percent research rate in 2006 and to a research rate of 3 percent in 2010. That's important to us! This research rate is an essential contribution to the continued growth of Austria's economy, and the growth of the Austrian economy is important and important for jobs and social prosperity. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I should also like to focus very briefly on detailed questions. Mr Gradwelt, I can calm you down: As far as transport technologies are concerned, we are very likely to have growth, but it is in the budget for offensives. In figures: For transport technologies, we have € 7.2 million in this budget, we already have €9 million in the 2005 budget, and finally €14 million in the 2006 budget, which means a doubling compared to the 2004 budget. Mrs Bayer, on the subject of increasing the budget, I believe I have already commented in detail on the figures and percentages. Finally, Mrs Scharer, I should like to say to you: You too can be calmed down: For the FEMtech project, €1.2 million and €1.5 million will come from the offensive budget planning in the coming years. Ladies and gentlemen in the High House! You see, we are on the right path here in terms of research and technology development, and we will also achieve our ambitious goals using the Headquarters strategy. This means that we welcome, invite and even advertise companies that want to set up their headquarters in Austria, with these companies of course also doing research in Austria. This is how we achieve the objectives we are reaching for 2006 and 2010.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e18685	I call Mr Hornek. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e18714	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Appreciate Members of Parliament! High house! The geographical location of Austria and the reunification of Europe present Austria with considerable challenges in the transport sector. Roads to the north, to the east and to the southeast of our neighbouring countries must be reactivated, or some must be reactivated. These challenges have been faced by this Federal Government and have invested massively in the expansion of the infrastructure. Investments include rail, road and waterway sectors. The total infrastructure investment for the period 2000 to 2010 amounts to unimaginable €28.1 billion. Investments of € 950 million will be made in 2004 without the own resources of the ÖBB, with the ÖBB's own resources being € 1.2 billion. Road construction is an area almost quadrupled in terms of investment volume. In addition, the federal government makes significant contributions to the expansion of the federal roads. Ladies and gentlemen! As mayor of a small border community, I see cross-border infrastructure projects as a great opportunity for the border region. The project to reactivate the Fratres – Slavonice railway crossing offers an opportunity to transport more than 200 000 tonnes of goods on the rail between Zwettl and Jihlava. The municipalities of the border region support the activities of our Federal Government in the cross-border infrastructure sector with services worth €80 000 from their own area. With our Deputy Chancellor Gorbach, with our State Secretary Mag. Kukacka and State Secretary Mag. Mainoni we are on a good and right path in the infrastructure area. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e18747	Next item is the report by Mr Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e18765	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! As a workforce representative of a company that lives in the truest sense of the word of technology and innovation and is therefore the engine of a region, probably even of an entire country, I am deeply aware of how dependent we are all on research and development. We know that we can achieve an advantage over others, and we can see that this is to be equated with the safeguarding of thousands of jobs. We are constantly qualifying, we are researching, we are developing, we have thus achieved a top place in the world over the years. That we are world-class in many areas, I experience day-to-day. In the Voest there are many other areas in the often admired Motion-Sparte, and for which one applies: The advantage of research and innovation! [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Jakob Auer.]] If one considers the attractiveness of the economic location of Austria, one can say with fug and law: It is not the gifts of Mr. Grasser that attract the companies, but it is the know-how of every individual employee and every individual employee who acts as a magnet. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Jakob Auer.]] This magnet, ladies and gentlemen, must never lose its appeal. The task of policy and, of course, of this government is to create a framework under which sustainable innovation can be developed. With the new budget, unlike you always claim, you have indeed not created a century throw. This is again only the continuation of your behavior from 2000. Are expected from the start of your government By 2005 they increased their expenditure on innovation and technology by almost 13 percent less than all other actors. As a consequence of your actions, it is to be feared that we are slipping down to the middle class, because even if the small increase in resources for technology and innovation despite all this is an increase, this is not a sustainable increase in resources. This time the funds for so-called offensive programmes, i.e. limited time, will be increased. If you run out, the budget will fall back on its regular part. There you increase by only 0.7 percent, and that is less than the inflation rate. It is important, ladies and gentlemen, to constantly increase the research funding fund, thus allowing businesses such as the Voest, which are classified as low, Mr State Secretary, for long-term measures in the field of innovation and technology that secure sustainable jobs in Austria, to provide support accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e18832	The next item is the speech by Mr Doppler. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e18851	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In the course of today's debate, the postal offices have been addressed several times, and I would also like to say a few sentences. I have fought as mayor, but also as a representative of interest with all my body to ensure that post offices are preserved. I was sorry about the staff, but I was also sorry that the infrastructure was lost. As mayor in my home community, I have not succeeded in saving post office, but I have managed to have a post office instead of post office now, a post service post office... [[Abg. May. Worm: How much do the parish citizens pay for it?]] No, you don't know each other! We only had 2 days to think. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Worm: How much do the parish citizens pay for it?]] Dear colleague, I grew up in a simple village, but I learned to let someone talk and not interrupt anyone. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Worm: Ah! Don't you have any more arguments?]] If you listen to me, I'll explain that to you. You pay for a post partner and you also pay for a post office, but we have managed to negotiate a post service post. It's a success! We don't pay for it, but we get paid for it. [[Abg. May. Worm: This is a miracle!]] We set this up at the municipal office and at the tourist office. The further success is that the postal services in St. Jakob im Walde are now offered not only for 5 days, but for 6 days because we are also a commuting community. [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] My colleague, what I want to say with this... [[New call of the abg. May. Worm.]] I don't listen to you, you can't scream so loud that I hear what you're saying. What I wanted to say to you is this: Special circumstances also require special solutions! That's exactly what I wanted to say. Let me now turn to a few more points. I would like to thank the Secretary of State Mainoni for the information in the research quota. I would like to add a few more figures to this. We have a research rate of 2.27 percent of GDP in Austria. The European average research rate is 1.99%. The actual sum – please, listen to this! – has been doubled since 1994. But not only such measures are put in place by this Federal Government, but also very many other positive measures. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm]] In particular in the field of research and technology transfer, the funds of 2 895 000... [[New call of the abg. May. Worm.]] You are stubborn, gracious woman, we meet once outside! [[Abg. May. Worm: Yes, of course!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So these funds have been increased to 4,508,000. Most likely the research company Joanneum Research Research-GmbH also benefits, for which I would like to thank very much. Ladies and gentlemen! An approach to sustainability is also included in this budget. The sustainable model includes the environment, the economy and the social environment. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Research, technology and sustainability ensure the economic location of Austria and thus also jobs in accordance with the government programme “Relief due to recovery”. The path taken by the Austrian Federal Government is a forward-looking path in Austria, and it is to be supported by all the parties represented here in the High House. Austria is successful. In this sense, I ask for your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e18988	The next speaker is Mr Oberhaidinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e19007	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Investment in research, development and Education is an essential part of a good location policy. If companies go to other countries for cost reasons or for whatever reason, we will not be able to stop them, as we have to. But if we effectively support our high-tech companies in research and development and provide the best-trained staff, we will improve the opportunities of these companies in international markets. We could hear this today. But what does this federal government do? – It spoils Austrian parade companies or leaves them defenselessly hostile acquisitions. Our top researchers in research and science go to the USA or to other states because they can more and better research and work there. The remaining scientific youth is frustrated because he has no research perspective. We, ladies and gentlemen, are not about decimal places at the research rate, but our measurement is the number of employees in research, and we are unfortunately final. That is why we cannot agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e19043	Mr Mag, the State Secretary, spoke from the Government Bank. Kukacka. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e19061	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I know I can only make myself more popular with you now if I take a moment in my speech. [[General condolences.]] I would also like to try this, although, of course, the many questions raised here would have to be answered in more detail. I would like to start with a quote from Mr Marizzi, who said: It's not all bad what this government does! That was a pleasant intermediate in the discussion, and I would like to give it back and say: It is also not all bad what the opposition does!, although I have had the impression today that you have just shifted to criticism. Of course, criticism is a very important function of the opposition, but I would also like you to present a few alternatives to the major transport and reform projects of this federal government, instead of just criticizing them. Where is there an alternative to ASFINAG, to finance the construction of our motorway system? Where is there a reasonable alternative to the introduction of the truck toll, as we have done, with a system that is undisputed among the best in Europe. It is also not true that we are not trying to ensure that road transport is cost-effective. Of course we do. You know, we are not the “cheek Jacob ” in Europe. Our toll system is one of the most expensive in terms of the cost of truck transport. It is still compatible with the Road Costs Directive. In other words, we are working very well to ensure that there is a level playing field and that we also have the right direction and, if possible, a shift to rail. That's what I came up with on the second subject. Where is the alternative to the comprehensive ÖBB reform as we have done it, ladies and gentlemen, and how they with 1. Next year's year's operational entry into force? [[Abg. Oils: Do you have it?]] I didn't hear an alternative to that! Ladies and gentlemen! I am grateful that this budget has succeeded in ensuring the financing of this ÖBB reform. Not only have the funding bases been renewed, but the ÖBB has also been discharged by more than €6 billion in this context. This means that the interest-rate burden has become significantly lower and that the financial scope for the company is much greater and thus there is more money for investment, especially for investments in the means of transport. The task of the ÖBB reform is not only to ensure that in the future a little more is saved and less state money needs to be used for it, but also to ensure that more customer benefits are generated. With this reform, we want to achieve a higher quality of rail transport, that there is growth in local transport in particular, that the railways as a whole are becoming more attractive. That is the real concern of this railway reform! I think we're on the best way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oils: Oh you!]] I would also like to say, however, that taxpayers – including all of us here – still have to spend a lot of money on this system. In essence, more than €3 billion will be financed from the budget for the rail system in the coming year: 1 billion € Grant for the operation of infrastructure, around €600 million for public service, € 1.4 billion for pensions, and € 1.2 billion, the state has to assume responsibility for further expansion of the infrastructure. So it's a huge sum that taxpayers have to spend. If you don't know that yet, I would like to say this again: What we spend on the rail system is almost three times as much as we spend on the Austrian universities, and three times as much as we spend on national defence. So much we use for the system rail in Austria! That is why it is quite a duty to ensure that this money is also used in a economical and efficient manner, both by the government and by those responsible. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: Little in relation to the road!]] This is not little in relation to the road, Mrs Colleague. While the road is not spent on the road as a whole, the road is above all a self-financing system. In other words, each individual driver must also pay for the use of the motorways in addition to the taxes he has to provide, as it were, such as mineral oil tax et cetera. [[Abg. Mandak: But you also have to calculate the environmental costs!]] 1.2 billion must be spent on the Austrian taxpayer and the truck economy alone to finance the Austrian motorways and highways. So don't say that's more than for the rail system. [[Abg. Oils: Oh yes!]] It is undisputed that the tax payer's rail system must be more concerned. [[Abg. Oillinger: No, economically not!]] But we do it because it is sensible and necessary because we need the rail. We need transport as an alternative to individual transport in order to cope with the transport problems of the future. I am in favour of this, and that is why we are also making this rail reform, and that is why we will, as a very important project, also implement a public transport reform. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: When?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, we all have to note that much money has gone into this area in the last 5 to 10 years, more and more, but the use of public transport is decreasing. More and more people are using public transport, even though we are getting more and more money for it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mandak.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We need to close this efficiency gap. This system must, as it were, take account of the level of transport policy, and we must examine what is going on wrong, because it cannot be that a system is devouring more and more money, but that fewer and fewer people in that country are using this system. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Mandak: You do not count on environmental costs!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would also like to point out that we are placing an important focus on the Danube waterway. The expansion of the waterway is a very important concern for us, and we also place a new focus on this in the budget: €6 million for appropriate planning measures over the next two years, because we need to expand certain flat water stations, certain bottlenecks on the Danube in order to ensure that the Danube is largely accessible throughout the year and, in particular, in freight transport, the Danube waterway is more used than before. This is particularly important in the context of EU enlargement, which is particularly important for European freight transport from the Black Sea to Western Europe. We want Austria to take on a certain pioneering role here, and we will ensure that common European standards also take place in this area. We want to develop a truly comprehensive alternative to road transport, because we will only be able to solve the transport problems if we really manage to develop a trimodal transport system, namely to further expand the road where it is necessary, because it is indispensable, but alternatively to do so, we will also develop the environmentally more sustainable transport such as the rail and the waterway accordingly. Only in this way can we solve the problems of the future! I believe that with all the self-criticism that we as a government and, of course, also have to have in transport policy – and it is not always right what we are doing – everything can be said that transport policy is in good hands with this government and that important initiatives have been taken that need to be further developed in this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e19232	The next item is the speech by Mr Kurzbauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e19250	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. State Secretary! “Rising through discharge” is the motto of the 2005 budget, and an important pillar of this budget, as we have heard today, is investment in research and technology. As we all know, investment in research and technology development is very important for the development of productivity and for the per capita income of a country. This federal government, ladies and gentlemen, has set the right priorities in this area. It has already been pointed out that in addition to the ordinary budget, the regular budget, additional 1.2 billion will be invested in the years 2004 to 2006. This is particularly important! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The core part of the research reform is the research promotion society, which with 1. ==References====External links== There, about 130 qualified employees are employed, and these manage a funding volume of around €300 million. One of the main objectives of this society is to increase competitiveness and streamline programmes. With the new research landscape, Austria is one of the most modern countries in Europe. A very brief comment to Mr Heinzl, who said that he would make a request on freight transit. Mr Brader and I will not vote in favour of this motion. It was agreed that the west section of Vienna – St. Pölten, Knoten Wagram, and the entrance of St. Pölten Ost were currently being built. It wouldn't be technically at all. [[Abg. Heinzl: Where did you get this that technically is not possible!]] But we are glad that almost 51 kilometers are built in the area between St. Pölten and Vienna. This is very pleasing for us. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e19287	The next item is the speech by Mr Praßl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e19305	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! The 2005 budget is important for the future of Austria in the area of transport. Consideration of regions that have been awakened in recent years due to their strong development from the sleep of thorns is essential for the development of infrastructure. Ladies and gentlemen! I would particularly like to address the project of the Principality of the Highway, the S7, because it is in my constituency. It is an important link to the neighbouring countries of Hungary and Slovenia. I believe that the S7 will be a very important roadway for international transport in the future. This project, which also provides road safety, is a huge development for this region, where almost 18,000 vehicles are currently on the move every day. Ladies and gentlemen! This federal government works very well because it also supports rural regions and thus ensures that infrastructure is expanded wherever it is necessary. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The volume of traffic will be proven to increase even if we do not build S 7. The aim is to bundle the traffic and lead it in a reasonable way. With the S7 we get a very modern connection, a connection to the international motorway system to Hungary and Slovenia. This, in turn, strengthens this region, so we look very hopefully and positively into the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e19344	Mr Heinzl. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a point of order.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e19366	Mr President. High house! Mr Kurzbauer claimed that the construction of St. Pölten is not technically possible. I'm actually correcting: To date, 150 million € have been installed for the construction of the St. Pölten freight transport system... – 150 million €, a further construction of the St. Pölten freight train is technically possible. [[Abg. Neudeck: Schilling or Euro?]] [[State Secretary Mag. Kukacka: Go where?]] [[Abg. Ellwall: This is not a correction!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e19469	Next item is the report by Mr Preineder. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e19488	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! ‘Top Austria: A7 – Disability at Bindermichl”, “Kärnten: A 2 in the direction of Italy – reservoir at the Hermagor exit”, “Lower Austria: A 2 in the direction of Vienna – Stop-and-Go from Mödling”. Dear ladies and gentlemen! We know them, the traffic news of today; and we know that it is important to invest in the expansion of the road infrastructure, that it is important to bring about the strengthening of public transport in the conurbation centres, and that it is also important to force combined transport systems and transport models, as in Lower Austria, where in recent years 28 000 parking spaces have been created in front of railway stations. An additional topic, however, is not only park-and-ride facilities, but also park-and-drive facilities, so parking spaces in front of traffic hubs, which allow for the creation of driving communities. To this end, it is simply important to create parking opportunities at traffic neural points, especially on motorways. The aim is to achieve fewer cars with more people on the roads, more cars on parking and less traffic and less pollution. For me, as someone who likes to form driving communities, it is a vision to find a parking lot at every motorway driveway. In Lower Austria, it will be possible to get closer to this vision in the near future. They are located in the state of Lower Austria, my home country, currently in about 1 000 parking spaces in front of motorways, which are mostly used up to 100 percent. However, there are also 2 000 parking spaces needed. I can go to the Lord. Federal Minister Gorbach and Secretary of State Kukacka thank you very much for being able to work together with ASFINAG to develop a financing model to achieve these 2 pitches. This is about a volume of €3 million, which is a very small volume in relation to the construction of a motorway. It is planned that the ASFINAG will increase 50 percent and the country and possibly the municipalities with a further 50 percent in the financing of these parking spaces. 3,000 cars would be converted into a tunnel 15 kilometers! If we could extend this model to all of Austria, we might save ourselves 100 kilometres of traffic on some days. Parking on motorways is an intelligent transport solution for intelligent drivers. Dear ladies and gentlemen! We face major challenges in the transport sector. We need to enable the mobility of people, to benefit from Easter enlargement and to ensure security. Austria is on a right path! We will continue in transport policy and continue to drive right in Austria for a long time!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e19545	Next item is the report by Mr Radler. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e19563	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! I believe that with this draft budget, we will find an appropriate instrument to solve the transport problems that we find in the eastern region of our country. Since the opening of the east, we have been faced with an increasing volume of traffic – about 15 percent annually – but this also means a huge opportunity for the domestic economy. Lower Austria exports to the former Eastern countries and has recorded an increase of 17 percent, therefore also a thank you for the clear commitment of our Secretary of State for the expansion of the railways, for the expansion of the waterway and for the extension of the road! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Interlocutory note by Secretary of State Mag. Kukacka.]] Some 45 billion are available in the general transport plan, 2.5 billion of which are used for road construction. Since five of the six TEN projects will be implemented in Lower Austria, this means a tremendous relief for us, as we will bring 7,000 trucks to the road in the near future. The Eastern Region is not so much a region burdened by transit, we only have 5 percent transit traffic, the rest is source traffic. Any investment that is spent on public transport means a discharge and an additional opportunity for the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e19615	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Winkler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e19633	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! One cannot stress it often enough, and therefore I would also like to repeat that this Federal Government has done more for the expansion of infrastructure, i.e., for the expansion of rail, road and waterway, than any government before, with a total investment volume of € 28.1 million by 2010. I would like to stress that the federal government provides the federal states with around €541 million annually for the extension of the federal roads. Of course, as a Carinthian, I am also particularly concerned that the north-south axis or the south-north axis finds special consideration. So I am glad that the Koralmbahn is completed as part of this North-South axis or south-north axis. [[Abg. Eder: When? When in advance? That's a nonsense!]] In addition, I hope that since the Semmering base tunnel would be an essential part of this North-South connection, a global view will lead to the implementation of this important project. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] For the Federal State of Carinthia, the completion of the B 317 is also of particular importance, and I therefore seek to transfer the B 317 to the ASFINAG in the course of the amendment of the Federal Road Act. I am already asking the two State Secretarys to support this. Finally, I should like to address the infrastructure and point out that public passenger transport in particular has a special importance for rural areas and that it should also be supported accordingly. But a special concern – and I do not want to forget this here – is here again and again that all these construction measures do not fall short of the arrivals. I am therefore particularly looking for all measures to protect against noise, against exhaust gases, against environmental pollution and the like. That's why I'm looking for something special! I already thank you for your understanding of this and wish you every good for your implementation. In this sense: Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e19689	Next item is the report by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e19707	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, More Internet, less traffic – at least road transport! is the result of a study on the development of broadband infrastructure. I would like to talk about this very briefly, because the fast Internet connection is already a crucial factor for the economy and for living in rural areas. With the broadband initiative of this government, which we are calling for very vehemently, within the framework of the economic and financial package, and ensuring financial resources in the 2005 budget and also in the coming years, the digital gap between the agglomerations and the rural regions will soon be reduced. By the end of 2007, €10 million will be almost equally distributed to the federal states. A total of around €100 million will be “resulted. ” Yes, the EIA sets economic impulses, and businesses provide jobs. That's how we do politics! According to the Ministry's special guidelines, only in Carinthia about 70 settlement points are eligible. This also includes many remote valleys of my home district St. Veit aan der Glan. High house! Due to my initiative and my suggestions, the country of Carinthia has responded relatively quickly: The country's development agency has already developed a concept and its implementation will start already in spring 2005. The investment volume for Carinthia alone amounts to around €25 million, with around 20 to 25 percent of the funding. The concept contains a comprehensive supply, which will enable each Carinthian to find the same conditions in the coming years, i.e. the same quality at the same price. The broadband internet will help the rural region to create new economic impulses. This federal government – in particular also the ÖVP – enables equal opportunities and competitiveness, and it also provides for us people in remote valleys and away from the agglomerations. Of course, the list of disadvantages for the rural regions is still very long, because the period of the seventies and eighties, the time of centralism has left deep traces. But we from the EIA set very decisive emphasis on rural areas. We are also working very hard on this. Finally, I should also like to express and strengthen a wish that my previous speakers have already made. – Mr Grillitsch! On the former Trieste federal road, that is, the B 317, the gap between Judenburg and Friesach is waiting for a rapid expansion. Transport safety, noise pollution et cetera, all this is becoming more dramatic. That's what I'm looking for. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e19756	The next item is the speech by Mr Böhm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e19774	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Mr President, may I briefly ask a question? How much rest of the time do I have?
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e19789	They have a voluntary time limit of 2 minutes, and about that is also so good in the overall framework.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e19817	That's not enough. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: The time is soon over!]] In view of this speaking time, I have to shorten my speech massively. Many points have already been made, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. In terms of infrastructure in particular, very many billions will be invested. I would particularly like to thank my group and the liberals for their excellent support in recent years, especially in the development of the ÖBB. I think it deserved a applause, now at the end. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I have been on the highway myself, but for two years, since I was in Parliament, I have been very happy to travel with the ÖBB. Mr. State Secretary! I really must congratulate you on the excellent achievements that have now been achieved on the Bundesbahnen. I have rarely experienced such a great service. Please, keep going! Please continue to support this! I think that's a very important story. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: I think you're talking about the ghostway!]] A request as an entrepreneur – since today is the day of the petitions: It is very important to me that information and communication technology is developed especially for us entrepreneurs, for small businesses in Austria. You have to imagine the situation: On average, we only have five to ten employees, we don't have huge structures, so it's absolutely necessary that ICT technology be further expanded in order to ultimately get the information we need in order to be able to exist even in the future. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e19874	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Does Mr Special Rapporteur wish a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the consultative group X of the Federal proposal 2005. This includes Chapter 65 of the Federal Proposal in 650 of the Supplements, as amended by the Special Report in 670 of the Supplements. Mr Miedl, Mr Wittauer, Mr President, have tabled an amendment or amendment. In view of the fact that only this one request is made, I have to vote on the consultative group X – which includes Chapter 65 of the Federal Proposal in 650 of the Supplements as amended by the Special Report in 670 of the Supplements – taking into account the supplementary or amendment request of Members Miedl, Wittauer, colleagues and others. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a sign on this point. – This is the majority, and thus the consultative group X has been adopted. According to § 55 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the vote be taken on the motion for a resolution tabled at the time of the negotiation on the consultative group X of the Federal Finance Act. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. We therefore come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Heinzl, colleagues, on the immediate implementation of the St. Pölten freight transport system. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority, and this rejects the motion for a resolution. Advisory Group V Chapter 30: Justice
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e19953	We are now entering the debate on the V advisory group: Justice. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker was Mr. Dr. Jarolim. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e19977	Mr Mainoni's Secretary of State represents the Minister of Justice? Can I take it?
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e20004	The Minister for Justice is already here – if you look! [[Federal Minister Mag. Miklauch is taking place on the government bank.]] Mr Dr. Jarolim, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e20028	Mr President. I thank you for granting the word. [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] Minister of Justice! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In recent times, we have had a development – and I regret this for you, Mrs Justice Minister – in which you actually “participate” very massively from the mistakes of the Federal Government, from the budgetary problems. The situation we have experienced in recent weeks, namely the protest in the judiciary and the demonstrations, speaks a relatively clear language. Mrs. Minister, you have actually begun very strongly, with great enthusiasm. I hope that you will continue to keep this up and that you will not let events such as the FPÖ conference slide slowly from this good program. But if I look at what has changed during the last few weeks in the ministry’s broadcasts, I hope there will not be a trend. At the beginning of your term of office, we have been presented by you a very understandable, comprehensive program for how you will act in justice. We have also seen a broad understanding in your survey carried out in the last two days on how to proceed in criminal proceedings, and I would like to congratulate and thank you for that. If one summarizes what has been identified by substrate there, it is ultimately what has been the expert opinion for decades – Mr Spindelegger, I think you will be able to confirm it – which, however, has been vehemently fought by the government parties over the past few years, namely, the subject matter in the field of justice. On the occasion of a discussion contribution, we have found that the best measure for reducing the criminal enforcement figures in international comparison is the conditional redundancies. This is not new, but it has been demanded for years. For years, however, colleague Partik-Pablé vehement has spoken out of us that this is not possible. Ladies and gentlemen! If you really want to make nails with heads, then you will have to get there what was recommended in this survey! Madam Minister, I hope you are able to stand up in the government! I think your points are to be met, but if the Minister of Finance and the Chancellor do not want to do so, that will not be enforceable and will not prevail. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and with representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Thank you. This is a note of solidarity that we do not forget! I therefore believe that it is important to really show positions here! Another point is the right to take over. Ladies and gentlemen! We've been experiencing a situation lately – and this has also been discussed with Grasser this morning – that individuals who are more or less influential are trying to tear companies under the nail if you can say so. – If you have followed the debate on the right to take over, in which Professor Doralt vehemently opposed the Commission, and at the same time there has been enormous political pressure to intimidate this Commission, which has nothing to do with it, as small shareholder interests, then you can see that there is a need for action in this regard, Mrs Minister! Finally, I would like to express a concern that is especially dear to my heart: You may have seen today the publication in the media that a change of position at the National Criminal Court is at hand and that President Woratsch has negotiated today on one of his last working days. There are also drafts and proposals on how to re-occupy. There is a proposal concerning the Vice-President of the National Criminal Court, which was made by the judge himself, and there is a proposal that we still know from the period of Bohemia, namely the Senate President Maurer, who is very familiar to all of us. I don't know where this proposal comes from, I just know that Minister Böhmdorfer has always forced him very much. Mrs Miklauch, my request to you: Please consider very well if you make this decision! To make a mason – I also remember the book written about him – with all the links to the “Third Reich” – as the president of an important court, I believe, unbearable! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: We already have an independent justice!]] I hope that this is a responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e20079	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Dr. Fekter. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e20097	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! There's something whole right now. Incredible incident: Mr Jarolim is here to speak, here in plenary a staff intervention is taking place for the post-occupying of the regional court in Vienna and discredits a judge currently in office in an immense way! [[Abg. Ollinger: This is a public debate!]] Please note, Mr Jarolim: Justice is independent of us! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. One: Who appoints the judges, Mrs. Colleague?]] Staff members belong to God thanks to the judicial administration, and therefore from this stage such a word message – I have to say quite honestly – has no place! Mrs Minister, I would like to thank you at the beginning of the budget chapter on justice on behalf of my group for the very good cooperation with the justice sector. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] We are always excellently supported by the civil service, so I thank you very, very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e20155	Mr Kummerer, you know exactly what the practice is in this House. I would ask you to pay attention to the practice and let the speaker speak! Otherwise Get You're also a call for order!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e20182	With you too, Mrs Miklauch, cooperation works perfectly, as we have already experienced in the Budget Committee. With regard to the problem of detention, I have mentioned in the Committee on Budgets that our detention centres are currently in detention and that they are subject to replacement sentences. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] The number of days of detention was 44,880 in 2003; the number of inmates for replacement sentences was 1,480 in 2003, resulting in an average penalty period of 30,32 days. I think it would be better to replace these prison sentences with non-profit work. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Who's the prisoner supposed to work for?]] The execution of the replacement sentences could be avoided if they were to be substituted by non-profit work. We need, of course, a new instrument, which also introduces non-profit work as criminal proceedings. This is contained in the Coalition Convention, and it might be a good start to initiate a pilot project on this subject for the replacement sentences so that we can relieve the prisons. Community work is certainly more socially compatible than the ports for those people who don't pay for their money Mrs. Partik-Pablé, we have developed the charitable work in the Diversion as an instrument, and this is also very good in the meantime. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this respect, there is a good cooperation with the Public Prosecutor's Office, which already has a wealth of non-profit activities available in order to put them into use for the Disversion. And what's good with the disversion could also be good with the replacement penalty. Mrs Minister, to combat crime, I would also like to make a few wishes here. Unfortunately, in the addiction law, we have a fatal manko: There has been a misdevelopment that we as legislators have not expected. For example, it is in § 35 para. 2 provides that if a person is attacked with a small amount of addictive drugs, the procedure must be stopped. This does not apply to those who have a conditional punishment, but to those who are already condemned. – I do not think that is justified! Sustained perpetrators who are re-acquired in a drug offence are to be sentenced, and they are not to be held to be mild! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Also, the depleting of enrichment in this area is increasing with far too high amounts. It would be appropriate to use the drug dealers we catch in terms of the amount of money they carry. Furthermore, cocaine currently has a limit of 15 grams. I think that's too high. I think we should also cut the limit. We must tackle crime and, in particular, drug crime because we are dealing with organized gang activities: People are on the road in the “antle system” with only small quantities, so we need to get through here more sharply.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e20243	Mrs Mag (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Stoisits. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Please don't!]] Your speaking time is 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e20272	Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr President. It is your first budget debate, Mrs Fischler, but that was a small foretaste that Mrs President of the Committee on Justice has given you. It has not at all been about content, about money or about the budget, but it has been a beautiful Wink with the fence stake, which you expect from the large part of the government coalition in connection with conditional dismissal, material criminal law and addiction law. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] I've got to say, I very much hope that in this case you will not believe the President-in-Office of the Justice Committee! I have to address a personal word to you, Mrs. Minister, since you took up your office – and I have always had to do with people from the judiciary in general – only receive positive feedback to you in your capacity as minister, especially from the ladies and gentlemen you are dealing with in the department, especially with the finding, finally someone – I say now – who is not “resistant to advice”. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's your bitch, Mrs. Stoisits!]] I have now looked a little at the former Minister of Justice Böhmdorfer. – Those were my words, Minister. Not that you believe you have a bad regret with the ladies and gentlemen in the judicial resort. The positive thing is yours, Mrs Minister, and I think you should give faith to the advice of the ladies and gentlemen in the judicial community, who are truly knowledgeable, and not to Members who are referring primarily to the “Kronen Zeitung”, or, like Mrs. Fekter, to the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” or to the “Oberösterreichische Tagblatt” to see what they mean there. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This is Mrs. Stoisits!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Where did the advice come from?]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Best of all, you only believe Mrs. Stoisits!]] Mrs. Federal Minister, you can accept the advice, you don't have to, but then think of me when the "bombard" comes from those who primarily see their re-election and have no judicial ideas – let alone visions. I would like you, Mrs Minister, to express my respect for the event in connection with the execution of the sentence, and in particular with the main focus on conditional dismissal, which took place yesterday and yesterday in the Ministry of Justice. I said it yesterday, but now I have the opportunity to say it to my colleagues. – You heard it yesterday [[Abg. Grossruck: Yesterday was plenary, Mrs. Colleague!]] This event was therefore essential because it stressed precisely these aspects, namely not to follow the “Kronen Zeitung” and other small or in some cases large-format leaves, but to discuss them objectively. The question of the crisis of Austrian detention and overcrowded prisons must be considered together with the question of how to reform conditional dismissal and whether there will be an impact on the number of belays in prisons, since such a reform – I am sure you will see it that way – will have a positive effect on the reduction of the amount of belay. Since I have already submitted an initiative proposal to the National Council in July, which includes the conditional dismissal and what is now a change of law – not the practice of the courts, but what falls within our responsibility – I am now very optimistic that the discussion on it will continue positively. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: We don't want that!]] These are not things that Stoisits has considered, Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé, but they have individuals who have decades of criminal law experience – like Professor Burgstaller, like Professor Fuchs, like various institution leaders, such as judges, prosecutors and also representatives of NEWSTART, who spoke about it yesterday – quite clearly and very precisely now also work out the legal need for action. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But the population doesn't want that!]] I see this completely fractionally neutral now. This is a purely subject matter, and I would like it to be treated here as such. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But the population does not understand this, Mrs Stoisits!]] If you see a subject of justice – and this has already been a long history here in Parliament – you can also see it objectively without turning to different newspapers now – I can repeat what I have already said – there can also be constructive agreements. The tradition was once such that there were four-party unitys. I can only tell you: In this case, I believe that at least Fekter, Böhmdorfer, Jarolim and Stoisits – now to mention those who are responsible for their political groups – can, together with you, come to a good result very quickly, if I see now away from Dr. Partik-Pablé and to Dr. Böhmdorfer. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I don't make a policy for prison directors!]] I cannot judge the other ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the Liberals, because they have never said anything about it. A second comment, Mrs Minister, on the more than current question of the protests of the judges and prosecutors who expressed themselves in the day of protest. The focus here is on the rule of law's concern for the functioning of the rule of law. I expect you to do so, but most of the colleagues here will probably say: A rule of law, which one does not want to afford, is very quickly no longer a rule of law, is not what we hope to do together. That was the tenor – so I understood it – of the judges and prosecutors who expressed their protest. About half a year ago – it's not long ago! – we have decided on the pre-procedural reform here. There are very clear and clear rules there. The concern that what the legislator wants is not to be fair to what he wants, because of the shortage of personnel or the lack of resources – not only in terms of personnel – and thus to take a risk of the rule of law, is really serious to take, Mrs. Federal Minister! Austria's judgeship is not exactly the hort of – what should I call it now? – Left-liberality or by loud groups of Greens and Social Democrats, but they are in the truest sense of the word a well-selected – in the case – elite of the Austrian population, which I would rather see settled in the other direction. These are wise people who think for a long time before they use such means – and they trust you, Mrs. Minister! You rely on your force of enforcement, Mrs. Minister, and they also rely on such a thing as a generally positive access and a solution expertise that is not inspired by shriek on headlines in small format media, but by the usefulness of subject-oriented solutions. I also hope for you that – you weren't there yet – the women who are in positions will actually prove that they can. I wish you all that personally.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e20456	Mr Böhmdorfer is now speaking. He wishes a speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e20474	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister of Justice! Ladies and gentlemen! What Mr Jarolim has said could be a suitable answer with the polemic so that the opportunity to tell you, Mr Jarolim, clearly what is behind it. I'd like to make it very brief: What you have said here, Mr Jarolim, is not exaggeration and gives a taste of how your staff decisions would be in your ranks. Thank God we are far away! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] On the occasion of today's debate, I have briefly made a revision of what the Minister of Finance has said on the Justice chapter and was actually disappointed, I say quite openly. The Minister of Finance is not here now. I would like to speak to him anyway; perhaps someone will. He summarized the budget speech on 27 pages. On these 27 pages, the justice system has four lines, including an internal and external security and justice cost €4.7 billion. - I'm disappointed. I would like to remind you that justice provides invaluable services not only for Austrian society, but also, in particular, for the Austrian economy. Of course, the Ministry of Justice is also a ministry in which personal protection is carried out, in which family law – legistically – is handled, including consumer protection law, public security and so on. But above all – and this should be remembered here, because the Minister of Finance is so much interested in the economy – the Ministry of Justice also provides the framework for the Austrian economy. It is the Commercial Code, the Stock Law, the GesmbH Law, the Cartel Act, the Takeover Law, E-Commerce, Capital Replacement and much more that secures Austria's economic location. If one speaks so much in the budget speech – and I say so equally – and so promisingly of Austria’s economic location, please also and more of the justice that ensures exactly this prosperity that we have in Austria. There is no security of prosperity without functioning justice! That's unthinkable. Perhaps this can be more taken into account in the next budget speech, because without a functioning judicial system it is certainly not possible! Now very briefly for a conditional release, which so heats the minds here. I can remind the many professionals who appear here: We have been in Austria for many, many years the stable number of 5,200 Austrian law enforcement officers. The rest are prisoners and foreign prisoners. We are particularly concerned about the foreign investigators. Overall, the number of prisoners has last increased from 7 000 to 9 000. [[Abg. May. Worm: Why?]] Because crime has increased. There is no way of reaching a conditional dismissal in the area of those in detention. Please explain to me how to release a prisoner due to a condition. – Of course not at all! We must fight crime and we must not drift around in areas that do not really fit the given situation! I'd like to remind you of that! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We have a special concern in Vienna, because Vienna and the east of Austria are the main focus of crime. In Vienna and Austria, there are 600 permanent prisoners more than in previous years. We therefore need a second national court for Vienna, because – logically, too, and I say this to the many experts who are constantly acting – the examiners are to be accommodated in the same buildings as the investigative judges according to the legal provisions. And if the federal court for criminal cases with its prisoner's house, which is connected, simply cannot include this plus to 600 prisoners, then, if you appreciate public security and want to keep it, you have to build a second prisoner's house, in which judges and investigators are housed in a building. – That’s as clear as water, and this should finally be accepted by those judges who constantly fight it! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e20532	Mrs Federal Minister Mag has spoken. Miklutsch. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e20552	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! As I can see from this discussion, and as I really see it, the issue of security and, above all, security in criminal execution is not only my concern, but also yours. This is a very important point, and that was the reason why the 2005 budget was significantly increased. As you can see from the budget figures, it has really succeeded in negotiating 11.5 percent more out of the budget in this area, and this budget is covered by the important aspect of Austria's security. The issue of redundancies has also been raised several times, and this area, of course, is not essential for the execution of penalties. In this context, I would also like to add the following to Mr Dieter Böhmdorfer's statement: For me, as Minister of Justice, the treatment of the subject of conditional redundancies should not only serve as a means of emptying the detention centre. That was not the result of yesterday's survey. I have heard the result of this survey personally. I would just like to stress this at this point. It was also mentioned that as Minister of Justice, I was called upon to ensure an orderly case law: I also see this as my central task, and I am aware – and I have provided for that – that the establishment plan for those projects you have decided here in the House also requires the necessary staff reserves. So I can tell you – and I assume that you have read this yourself in the establishment plan – that we will no longer provide any further savings in the field of judges and prosecutors for 2005, but also for the coming year, which I very much welcome. We have negotiated a net increase in planning points for this area, and this is also reflected in the establishment plan. These planning sites are important because we have to carry out the 2008 StPO reform with the necessary staff. In general, it is important to me that, in the area of justice, we tackle the issues and problems that will arise in the future efficiently, with a subject area that will be very busy with us in the near future. We need to bring this complex complex to a solution, and I will certainly use everything I can to come to an orderly solution. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e20592	Mrs Mag (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mrs Magnette for Muzzle on the floor. Desirable time: 3 minutes. – Mrs Colleague, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e20611	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! However, this budget estimate also shows that in many judicial areas there is no real progress. I would like to take the right to rent as an example. Indeed, in the government programme, the commitment that the rental right is to be made easier and more clear in this legislative period is to be made. – Mrs Minister, you, too, had to admit to the Committee on Budgetary Negotiations that this could no longer be achieved during this legislative period, and we must say: In line with your objective – and I do not mean you personally, but the aim of the government – you have simply failed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] That's what I'm saying. If you look at the draft of Dr. Garai, which was presented at the beginning of this year, you can only say: Thank God this is so and will not be implemented in this form, for this design has provided massive deterioration for the tenants. I have not yet heard from the former Minister of Justice Böhmdorfer or from you, which are to be taken up by these ideas set out in this draft. Garai, for example, demands that local rents be introduced, and of course this would have quite disastrous consequences for the tenants. The indicative rents according to the current legal regulations, which are certainly not the final conclusion of wisdom, are still much more favourable than local rents. The question arises as to what is planned in this area of rental rights. In any case, the experience of the last four and a half years has shown that if something was changed in the rental law, something was about client policy – and not done in favour of the tenants. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's not true, the rents have fallen!]] SPÖ has developed an alternative with experts. There is a standard program, which will be presented tomorrow at the Architecture Centre, and I can invite you to do so! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e20653	Now, Mr Magz, I would like to say a few words about Mr Magz. Donnerbauer. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e20672	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I should like to congratulate you and your House on the outcome of your budget negotiations. You mentioned it already: Make more than €100 million in this budget compared to the current budget Together with Minister of the Interior, Strasser, you will become the great winner of this budget. And it is also necessary to take appropriate measures in these areas, as you have confirmed before. This must also be said: This is quite a success, and Mr Jarolim has rightly praised you for your start. However, he should also consider that it really works well here, not only in the area of pure finances, but also in the field of service posts. This was an important topic in recent days and weeks: 100 more planning places for Richterposten is a great success! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This has not only found precipitation in the media in recent days, but will also contribute to improving the quality of our justice system, whose very good level is already internationally recognised. Truly warm congratulation on this path! However, I would also like to refer to what my previous speaker, Mrs Becher, said here on rent and residence law. – I do not know in which Committee on Budgets They were: At the Budget Committee meeting on the judicial chapter, the Minister of Justice has not said that the government's efforts have failed and that what is in the government's programme – we are only half the legislative period – can no longer be implemented. I didn't hear that, and I think many others who were there didn't hear it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I would be pleased if what you are saying today were to stand up to reality in the negotiations on simplifications in rental law, because you You have said today that you too wish to simplify rental and housing law. This is a very good idea, and I hope, as I have said, that this will also be true, because until now, all the SPÖ's efforts towards reform and change of rental law have always been borne by additional complication and bureaucracy – and not by simplification. . I am therefore excited whether what you have announced to us today will also be settled in the further negotiations. Finally, I would like to clear up another mistake that Mr Jarolim has brought back to the meeting today, obviously inspired by protests of some stakeholders of the judges. I do not believe – and I believe that if we really deal with each other and talk, you will be able to confirm that – that the quality of justice depends on the fact that there are now more posts and more money for justice. We have heard that there is a very good result. Instead, I believe that the quality of justice depends on many other factors, otherwise it would not be possible for there to be very well-functioning courts, which have to come out with the same means as everyone else. I therefore believe that we should work on developing the quality that is very good, and I am convinced that this budget for 2005 will also be very successful.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e20735	Mrs Moser is now speaking. 2 minutes speaking time are required. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e20753	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't think you need to say that justice is the basis of statehood. The fact that justice is the basis and the prerequisite for the rule of law is, I believe, general knowledge. And that this also costs some money, we know as well. However, the additional requirements for judges are often also the result of decisions here, and that is why we simply need to budget more! I would like to thank not only Mrs Minister's staff for her exemplary work, but also the local judicial authorities, which, under these financial or under these general framework conditions, can still guarantee very good rule of law. I think that this recognition is also appropriate in connection with this judicial debate. Let's come to two details now. – Mrs Minister, the situation has already been addressed, and I would like to ask: Especially with regard to cost transparency and also to tenants' orientation, it would be time to finally bring into the indicative value system transparency in terms of surcharges and discounts. For the tenants, it is not clear now which surcharge and which discount is definitely price-relevant for the rent. We have never discussed this, despite the fact that there is an open ear in the departments of the department, in the judicial committee. I think I made the request two years ago. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] Mrs Fekter, I think we can really talk about this, because this is a purely transparency request: We must remove this dead right! It is indeed dead right, for also in the law is the However, what can be claimed as an award and discount and at what height is open. In this respect, I think we should at least start discussions in the sense of a favourable rental arrangement. [[New call of the abg. Dr. Fekter.]] It would also be useful to extend the possibility of dealing with processes or procedures through the VKI to the benefit of consumers in the context of association law, Mrs Colleague. These are two purely legal concerns which I would like to give you, Mrs Minister, in addition to the fact that I naturally wish you a lot of courage and willingness to use, in order to achieve some further budgetary improvements in terms of post-posting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e20811	The next speaker is Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e20829	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I too can follow the words of my colleague Heribert Donnerbauer: I think you, Mrs Federal Minister, have negotiated very well, you have negotiated a good budget for the judicial administration. – Of course, all of us here in the house are concerned about the rule of law. We will therefore continue to take care of this in the future – just as we have always looked after it in the past – that in the end there are resources available to implement the judicial laws, as well as the other laws. The judicial body can look back on a good record in the past: It has gone a lot further in recent years, I refer to the right of residence, I refer to the reform of criminal proceedings, the extradition procedure and the criminal code. It has gone a lot further, but there is still a lot ahead of you in the future, with which you and also we will have to deal and deal. I would like to mention one aspect: In the Austrian Convention there is among other things a group that deals with the judicial organisation. I hope that it will succeed – and that the opposition will also go along with and agree – that we will have a reform in this area, a uniform reception court and a streamlined and very good new judicial organisation. I would like to lose one word on the Act of Takeover, which was also mentioned here. I know that there are now initiatives in this respect – and you have said so in the Committee – in the direction of considering what to do when it comes to the so-called passive takeovers. – I personally would like to deposit that before a revision in itself the possibilities can be used in the way of the regulation – and that these possibilities exist. Our support, even in the near future, you have. – In this sense, I thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e20866	Mrs Stadlbauer is now speaking. Desirable time: 3 minutes. – Mrs Colleague, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e20887	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! The fact that the budget has been increased in the field of justice is a positive one in the first view. For a little less positive, I consider the way in which the funds are used in view of how they could be used. I would like to explain this in the example of maintenance law. Let us take a look at where the shortcomings lie! Often there are many years of procedures until the amount of maintenance is fixed at all. However, since this is also a prerequisite for applying for a maintenance advance, single parents often have to wait for years to receive financial support for their children. In a study conducted by the AK on single parents, 18 percent of women reported that they did not have an interview. Only a third of these receive maintenance advance, i.e. 12 percent of respondents receive neither child support nor maintenance advance. Under the current legislation, it may occur that, in the absence of performance of the maintenance debtor – for example because of unemployment or illness – no maintenance advance is granted at all. It is therefore primarily the performance of the maintenance debtor and not the child's maintenance needs. And that is where the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice takes on respect for the Minister of Justice. Maintenance advance could be used as a means of combating poverty. Every second single parent in Austria must find their way out with an income below the poverty line! These are more than 120,000 women in Austria living in poverty with their children! Now it is known that – because you are forcing this policy from ÖVP and FPÖ – the caritas for women in Austria in need had to create a fundraising campaign. We must thank the Caritas for this, but for the Federal Government and for the representatives of this government this is a political witness to poverty! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You see: Improvements in this area are necessary, but these are not foreseen in the budget. The Ministry of Justice is now responsible for maintenance, but you, Mrs. Minister, are delegating responsibility to the countries and stating that the Austrian Constitutional Law forbids an improvement in the situation for single-parents. I have this in writing, Mrs Minister, but this is about political decisions. It is about your decision how you want to use the existing budget resources. Your actions show that you don't care about the situation of single parents, and that's very sad. I am positive that there are considerations in the Ministry of Justice to achieve a faster advance of maintenance for single-parents through procedural simplification. We've been calling for that for a long time. Please act at last! You, Mrs. Minister, write in the answer that you have to start talks with various stakeholders. – These conversations have already taken place x times. At some point, we have to end talking. Now action is required! We need to get away from this alms policy, which is driving this government forward for the weakest in our society. We must go to decent laws, to legal claims for real support! A new Maintenance Insurance Act could take on this role in part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e20960	Mrs Brinek is now speaking for 2 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e20978	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Many essential aspects have already been addressed, I would also like to go a little further in the good balance of work. In the last few days, some of you have probably also received a letter pointing out a condition that we should change together, namely: Stigmatization in the legal system of people with mental disorders and mental impairments. [[Abg. May. Johann Maier: What are you responsible for, Mrs. Brinek!]] We have already been pointed out in the hearing and in the poll on criminal procedure, and I think that is a matter that we should address together. The initiators invite us to an inquiry for next week – unfortunately on a plenary day. I would like to tell the initiators from this point of view that I can assure my group that we will support and tackle this issue. [[Abg. May. Johann Maier: An increase of the jus students in Austria, Mrs. Brinek!]] This is a matter that we need to solve here, not in the study programme, not in the curriculum of jus studies. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] For the illustration only: In legal standardisation, the talk is still about “spiritually abnormal right-breakers”, about “soulish abjectness” and so on. This is reflected in the ASVG, in laws implemented in accordance with the ASVG, civil and church law, housing law and so on. As I said, On the occasion of the good budget figures, we can take this programme, this point, whatever we want to do, and I am sure, together with the Minister, that will succeed with as many, united forces as possible. I look forward to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e21044	Now, Mr Magz, I would like to say a few words about Mr Magz. Maier. His speaking time is also desirable for 3 minutes. – Please, you are on the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e21063	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! When Mr Brinek came to the speaker's desk, I thought we were now having an educational discussion on the shortcomings in legal training. – On this, Mr Brinek, let us discuss it seriously. What happens to our legal faculties is no longer justified! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: This is another story, Mr. Maier!]] However, the people who have completed this training are also dependent on it. Mrs Bundesminister, I tell you: Our group expects you to take the floor once in matters of legal training and to make clear statements. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you look at the budget figures – from € 874 million to € 975 million – you have to say that is misleading over the real problems in the justice sector, and we have huge problems! [[Abg. Bucher: Well negotiated!]] With this, Mr Bucher, we do not solve the problems in the judicial system: neither in the judicial guards nor in the countries where there are significant deficits. I do not make parliamentary requests for nothing and try to find out which position the individual Federal Ministers and Federal Ministers are referring to the human problems. A reply from the Federal Minister Miklauch in August of this year: “A human deficit exists on the one hand in the area of judicial institutions, both in the field of executive and in the care services. This is mainly due to the dramatic increase in the burden in judicial institutions." And on top of that: ‘Personal deficits also exist in the field of judicial authorities in the countries where not only the measuring instruments available (e.g. Personal requirements account) but also the numerous laws adopted by the National Council require increased use of resources, particularly in the field of judges and prosecutors and lawyers.’ Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Donnerbauer said how wonderful this is: 100 additional judges! I'll tell you what's really happening. 20 new judges for 2005 and 80 judges and judges! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] In 2006, Hohes Haus, all this will be dissolved again. In 2006, 370 planning sites were saved. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But no!]] Where are these planning sites saved? Mrs. Committee Chairman, we are already experiencing this: Calls for tenders in the field of writing services; it is distributed. The weakest ones, the writing services, and these are the women. I tell you quite specifically: We strongly reject this!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e21147	Mrs Franz is now speaking. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e21165	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs Minister, I would like to congratulate you on your negotiating skills, on the increased budget. Congratulations! I have also been pleased to note that this proposal will allow institutions to increase their capacity in order to ensure high-quality support for those who are discharged. I am pleased that the funds available for the year before have been increased by €1.9 million. But, ladies and gentlemen, where there are criminals, there are also victims, which is why I would also like to speak about the crime victim aid. In addition to the probationary aid that deals with the perpetrators, it must not be too short, as a regulated and targeted victim protection is also extremely important. No one who has become victims of a crime can be left alone. We are all glad that we have victim protection facilities for those concerned to assist them in the the work of the experienced to help. These are often dramatic experiences that affect a lifetime. So far, 1 million € has been allocated to the victim protection facilities per year. The estimate for 2005 is intended to double this amount, i.e. € 2 million is now available to the victim protection facilities. Therefore, funds for victim protection and parole aid will be increased in this budget, and that is a good thing. - Congratulations, Mrs. Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e21208	The next speaker is Mr Pendl. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e21226	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! [[Abg. Rest-Hinterseer is at the government bank and talks with Federal Minister Mag. Miklutsch.]] I would like to start my remarks...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e21247	Mrs Colleague, please! You don't do that! [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You don't do that!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e21275	I would like to thank you very much, at the beginning of my speech on behalf of my group, but also personally, for the high officials of the Ministry of Justice for the excellent cooperation within the Committee on Justice. I would like to express my thanks, Mrs Minister, to all the staff of the Centre, especially to colleagues in the execution of the sentence, who are most difficult to deal with. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Some of my previous speakers have already pointed out the importance of the judicial body in our Republic. This can only be underlined, but I believe that we are jointly required to equip justice with the necessary resources – whether it be in the financial field, whether it be in the human field. I should also like to point out the very difficult precarious situation in the Austrian judicial institutions at an early hour. We currently have about 9 000 inmates there. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that the prisons are not only overcrowded, but that at the hour we do not really know how to accommodate and care for these inmates in the near future. What this means for the staff, I think, everyone can imagine! It was really interesting, Mrs. Minister, to point out the need and importance of a master plan for our judicial institutions and for the entire execution of the sentence as soon as you take office. Dear ladies and gentlemen! You can't talk about a care performance at all! If we want to come to organised daily procedures in our judicial institutions, we must act immediately. For this reason, but also in the interests of the overall justice, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is necessary that it is overdue that we equip justice with the resources it urgently needs in this Republic and, above all, for the people in our home country. I invite you to give your consent to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e21360	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pendl by Mr Jarolim, Mr Pendl, Mr Mag. Worm, colleagues and colleagues to the Federal Minister for Justice concerning 150 judges, 300 non-judicial staff staff in addition, as well as 500 judicial guards more to ensure the functioning of justice in the interests of the citizens or for security in and outside prisons is sufficiently supported, is under negotiation and is voted in a few minutes. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e21448	The next speaker is Mr Praßl. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e21467	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in the High House! There is always a lot of talk about security in our country. I connect this not only with the internal security of the country, but also with a well-functioning judicial system. And here we are very right, ladies and gentlemen: This Federal Government of ÖVP and FPÖ has gained in its budget an increase in the funding for the judicial body, and therefore it is justified to ensure the maintenance of a very well functioning judicial system. However, as a regional Member, I would also like to say a sentence on this: It is my need and concern to include the district courts in this area and to equip and maintain them accordingly for the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A special feature, we have already heard of it: There are three district courts and a youth court in Graz. It is necessary to bring a merger into a district court. I believe that this will also be done in an administrative way for the future and will therefore no longer face a wide range of problems. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, there are also some problems in the field of justice. You must not hide them, but you must clearly present them and also tackle them. For example, the filling of prisons, as Mr Böhmdorfer has already said. Mrs Minister, I think you will find a way and solve this problem for the future. Anxiety about the rule of law is, I believe, not justified. We have a very good and also a functioning and thriving judicial system. Ladies and gentlemen! Voices If you agree to this budget, you will vote in favour of a good judicial system, then you will also vote in favour of a secure Austria! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e21513	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm. 3 minutes welcome. – You are speaking, Mrs Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e21531	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! It has come a long way in our Republic when, within a year, a profession like the judges, like the prosecutors goes on the street. That's how it happened last year. November, the so-called emergency day; this year about a week ago, when they held a warning strike. They pointed out a desperate human resource situation in the judiciary, they spoke of a ruinous austerity policy. The president of the Federal Section of Judges, Dr. Klaus Schröder, spoke of the fact that the working effort in question could hardly be dealt with; it threatened the judicial disaster. – So the statements from the mouth of judges and judges, and that should also be dubious. If that is so, then it is truly bad about our justice ordered to the jurisdiction. This is the third violence in our state, and we should take it seriously, Mr Lopatka! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For example, the former Federal Minister Böhmdorfer mentioned in a “standard” interview that he is also very affected by the shortage of personnel. Then he said towards ÖVP Federal Chancellor: “Unfortunately, this lacks an understanding of the situation.” And on top of that: “It is possible to achieve a significant process acceleration with a small increase in planning points. “But that’s where Schüssel has already refused my approval.” – That is what Mr Böhmdorfer says out of service. How has he been, then, the Federal Minister Böhmdorfer out of service? He had to go as a Federal Minister! I hope that after what you have said to the budget today, according to your statements, what Mr Grasser has to say on the subject of justice policy, after you have critically said that you may be in Parliament even longer. Maybe you're served now, too. Whoever is uncomfortable – we have already noticed this today – will be served! Yes, Dr. Lopatka! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But not with us! What party do you live in, Mrs Colleague, where such a thing can happen?]] It has already been pointed out that the prisons are overcrowded, a high level of prison inmates has been reached. 9,000 prisoners are in prisons – unfortunately! – imprisoned in Austria, and a compensation for the human situation is not in sight. The use of the federal army is even required! If Mrs Fekter says today that the small consumers are still to be punished, then I would remind you that the Minister said in the Committee on Budgets that she is on the principle: Therapy instead of punishment! I hope you remember, Mrs Minister, and you cannot be influenced because this is a good principle and an important thing for our youth and for the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e21586	Mr Puswald is now speaking. Speaking time: 3 minutes. – I ask you to lower the sound level!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e21604	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mrs. Federal Minister, either the Black and Blue Government has already managed to pull you over the table at the first budget and now blaze with jubilation – or this budget is a pure lip commitment, because here huddled how great justice will be equipped. [[Abg. Scheibner: Don't talk to the Minister, talk to the plenary! Turn around!]] The truth is that since this Federal Government has been working on justice by around 10 percent since the year 2000, I do not always like to see colleagues Neudeck, so I allow myself to talk to the Minister of Justice myself, in her staff position, to limit the level of justice so far that fully trained, long-term experienced full-scale academics, the judges, their judgments themselves, must hand over their protocols themselves, because not enough personnel are available. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Unheard! Talk to Parliament!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: You don't hear anything else, but that might be better anyway!]] And then, on the Ministry of Justice's homepage, one reads gruelingly that a modern rule of law is guaranteed, that framework conditions are available for appropriate decisions, that courts are to be equipped modernly and appropriately and that the services provided by the judiciary are to be carried out close to the citizen. – All of this is nothing but lip confession in the face of such a budget! Only the number mentioned by Dr. Böhmdorfer, namely the increase in the number of prisoners of investigation from 7 000 to 9 000 men and women, represents an increase in this area by 25 percent while at the same time reducing staff. They demand the “quadrature of the circle” of justice. I can't do that! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] This cannot be reconciled with a rule of law, and this is particularly worrying in one point: If one considers what it means to be in U-port, unprepared to be deprived of the right life, Mr Grillitsch, without being able to depend on it, then one must note that people are being torn out of their lives without being condemned... – Because I want to explain it to you Mr Grillitsch! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Grillitic.]] You have apparently not understood anything about the budget, at least not in the field of justice! This is also understandable because you have some idea of the least things you're talking about. In any case, it's not from justice. Therefore, their unqualified calls.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e21677	Mr Puswald, we are not dealing with each other in plenary.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e21702	All right, Mr President. This also leads me to your position that you may be able to carry it out in a balanced manner and over all doubts of a party, because if Mr Grillitsch answers with intervening calls and I repeat accordingly that you are then telling me that this falls into the sector of your Rules of Procedure, Mr President, after which you are giving colleagues Broukal for a laptop extract on the screen, while, at the same time, representatives of the government parties stand out here with tablets, you are always taking measures in the calls of our group or of the Greens, while, for example, when Mrs. Dr. Moser speaks, Mrs. Fekter calls seven times in between and you look at your screen, Mr President! [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I hope that in the future you will no longer raise the suspicion of party office! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e21738	The last speaker was Mr Wittmann. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please. [[Unrest in the hall.]] I would ask that the sound level be reduced slightly so that you can listen to Mr Wittmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e21765	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President, I also think it is a bit strange if you threaten the Member of Parliament for a call for an interim call, in which he merely finds that Dolfuß is still in the ÖVP club, a call for order. [[Abg. Neudeck: That can't be! At most the picture!]] That is a statement that is right, and there can be no calling for order, especially since it was not disturbing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: And what's up with you?]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I have already said this: It is hard to believe that Wittmann was once State Secretary!]] Mrs. Federal Minister! It's kind of significant for this government – you probably can't do much for it yet, but your predecessor, Böhmdorfer, in a “standard” interview in October, has already put it at the point where he said that the personal miscarriage is largely due to the German Chancellor Schüssel, who lacks the understanding of this miscarriage. - I can only agree. I think that one of the fundamental foundations of the rule of law is shaken by the fact that judges and prosecutors who ultimately have to make sure that this rule of law does not have the appropriate working conditions and does not provide them with sufficient resources. That is to say, one is damaging the brackets that hold the rule of law together, namely justice, thereby weakening it and thereby weakening the rule of law and ultimately the exercise of democracy. After a newspaper article, it also adds that while the crime rate is increasing, the rate of investigation is falling, but special units focus on it. These priorities focus on making as many prisoners as possible in order to be successful outside. But this overwhelms the prisons – and this makes the miser in the prisons even bigger. If you still have to release people because of dubious criminal offences, then I have to say quite honestly, it is very, very badly ordered about this judicial policy, and fits in the picture you got this afternoon by Federal Minister Strasser. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the one hand, criminal charges against lawyers, which make it virtually impossible for them to exercise their profession conscientiously and ultimately also to exercise the functions in which they have been placed, because they are in the way of governmental power. On the one hand, the state power represents by the Ministry of the Interior, on the other hand a representative asylum-seekers, who as the only helper has a lawyer against this state all-power – and then the lawyers are disavowed. I hope it doesn't do school! On the other hand, special units are formed, while the crime investigation rate is falling. Special units form as many people as possible who overwhelm the prisons so that they can show outward successes that are not successes because they have to release the people due to lack of crime. This is a policy, an internal policy, a judicial policy for which you should be ashamed! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The failure of the judges and the non-retirement of the plan posts of judges and prosecutors, in my opinion, is one of the biggest attacks on democracy, because the rule of law is the only reasonable obstacle that holds democracy together.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e21847	No one's been reported in the word anymore. We are now voting on the opinion group V of the Federal Proposal for 2005. This includes the chapter 30 of the Federal Proposal in 650 of the Supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. According to § 55 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the vote be taken on the motion for a resolution tabled at the time of the negotiation of the consultative group V of the Federal Finance Act. On the other hand, is there an objection? – That’s the majority, I’d have to say. [[The representatives of the EIA and the Free Trade Unions are still standing.]] – That is obviously not the case. We therefore come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Dr. Jarolim, colleagues with regard to 150 judges and 300 non-judicial staff, as well as 300 judicial guards more to ensure the functioning of justice in the interests of citizens or for security in and outside prisons. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – The request does not find the majority of the House; it is therefore rejected. The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-10-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00083_d7e21916	I am still announcing that in today's session, the self-employed were brought in applications 463/A to 465/A. Questions 2282/J to 2301/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 11. The following agenda was adopted at 9 a.m. on 9 November 2004: Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (650 of the Supplements), Federal Financial Act 2005 and Annexes (670 of the Supplements). Consultation Group VIII, Advisory Group XIII, Advisory Group III. There will be no Question Time at tomorrow's sitting. This meeting is closed.
