ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00065_d7e1070	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to ask you to take your seats. I'll open the 65. The meeting of the National Council, convened for today, 12 a.m. The Official Protocol of the 64. Meeting of 4. June is open to Parliament's management. It has remained without opposition and is therefore considered approved. As an obstacle to today's meeting, MEPs are Dr. Lichtenberger, Head, Haubner, Vergestnich and Csörgits. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00065_d7e1101	We arrive at the current hour with the theme: ‘Sport promotes health – prevention instead of therapy’ First of all, Mrs Rosenkranz has spoken. I should like to draw attention to the fact that, in the current hour, the first speaker has a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00065_d7e1125	Mr President. High house! Sports and health: Healthy, powerful, life-friendly, self-confidence, success-oriented, youthful to old age – this is a model that is more important than ever to our society today. However, there are alarming reports about obesity already in childhood, osteoporosis in recruits, the beginners in nicotine addiction are getting younger and younger, drug use is increasing. – That’s reality, too. The discrepancy between the desire we all have, and reality is greater than it may have been in earlier times. The discrepancy between what might be possible today and what is actually, is as great as it should not be, for we live in an age in which it makes possible the prosperity – the healthy diet, the prevention of child labour – as it has never been possible to guarantee healthy growth and a healthy life across broad layers. We're not really doing that. We don't really live up to this ideal image. We are all under the impression of increasing health costs. I now come to the need to try to promote a healthy lifestyle. We know that the health system has arrived at a point where it is no longer possible to invest even one euro, even one cent in a targeted way. We also know that in the coming years, we are not only facing the challenge of maintaining the existing one, but that we have to expect additional costs, with costs resulting from the fact that life expectancy has, fortunately, increased considerably, with costs resulting from the fact that the Progress of medicine enables better treatment and that medical-technical development also allows more expensive treatment methods and treatment options for every age. It costs money. We know that we have to spend this money – on the one hand, by saving all potentials, on the other, by thinking through how to avoid cases of disease – because – and that is what all those who want to press ahead with a health reform – if nothing happens, then it will be a reduction in the level of public medicine and thus only the class medicine that we want to avoid. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] As far as possible savings are concerned, apart from the necessary structural reforms, mergers, the elimination of privileges, which are of course still more frequent in the health industry, it is quite clear that this is perfectly verifiable and well-founded by studies: There is a very strong economic link between sports as a means of a healthy lifestyle and as a means of preventing and saving costs. We know that already, sports accidents compensate against the benefits of sports in preventing early death, of early illness, this benefit is €263 million. If you still consider what would be possible, you could bring the population in general to a healthier, that is to say, more movement-intensive lifestyle, then you can save a lot of money. If it succeeds in bringing half of those who do little sport to that group that have moderate sports, and if you can bring the moderate sports drifters half to the group of high-activists, then another €836 million are inside. This is something that we must definitely consider on the eve of a necessary health reform as an absolutely staggering argument. Health, directly related sports and movement, as a promotion of a lifestyle that brings more well-being, greater performance, so that of course also results in success experiences and self-confidence, is the other side. Of course, this has not only an economic aspect, but quite the contrary: It is a very humane requirement to put everyone in the condition where it is possible for him to fully develop his talents, his forces and not to be hindered by disease cases, partly caused by his own misconduct. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Education into a healthy lifestyle is of course something that must start in childhood. We know there are a number of investigations that prove that the little children are overweight. Parents who have their children in school are also constantly confronted with complaints from teachers, how difficult it has become in gymnastics that a so-called purple tree is made. This is already an adventurous business, especially for city children. Mobility, endurance, speed and strength, all of this will in no way be trained at the time when children enter kindergarten. It is very important to hold that down. It is clinically evident that the development of physical, motor skills has an extremely favourable influence on the development of intellectual skills. If we want to make our children smart, we also need to make them fit. This is something that needs to be taken for granted in the kindergarten – at any time at a time when the opportunities for children in the city – but also in the countryside – have been greatly reduced to develop freely, in which nature makes use of its possibilities of movement itself. As far as sports and youth are concerned, I have become Paul from Saul. I have never given much importance to sports – I must admit it honestly. But since I have had children of all ages and I have noticed the enormously positive effect sports have on the personality of young people, I am really curated and now a great supporter of sports promotion especially among young people. Two of my children, who are performance athletes, I'm sure I'll never have to stop smoking because they would never smoke a cigarette and therefore somehow affect their performance. I also think about how well sport affects the learning of social rules. Those who play in a team must accept that he can't always be the star, that he is returning the personal success that is already taking place, in order to enable the success of the whole. It is also a great advantage for social behaviour to practice in the sporting context. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Those who have once taken a good start will hardly want to miss sports at the later age. Not for nothing are people who stand in very demanding professions very often runners. Each of us knows the beneficial effect of a walk before going to sleep when the adrenaline level has risen high. This is also clinically recognizable: The relationship between a balanced transmitter budget and movement is obvious. There are now so-called run therapies in the event of depression, which prove to be perfectly effective. At age it is the maintenance of motor skills. These are a prerequisite for independence, for safety, for a healthy and satisfied age – without any doubt. There are also huge savings in public health. Mr. State Secretary Karl Schweitzer is to be congratulated that he has set himself the goal of genuinely changing a paradigm to make a change in the basic attitude, because first of all it is economically meaningful and second of all important for the well-being of the entire population. We must succeed in putting prevention in the foreground. That's not the way it is now: 11 per cent of GDP is spent on disease, and only one per cent of this cost is prevention. That's something that certainly needs to experience a different relationship! And that is why I am voting here that it will be necessary to change in the course of the health reform, just to switch from a disease to a health system. One key to this is to promote sport for every age of life and in all levels of the population.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00065_d7e1234	On an opinion on the current hour, Mr Mag. Sweitzer to speak. Same time of speech: 10 minutes. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00065_d7e1253	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We are facing the budget negotiations for the next two years; the increasingly poorer average health status of the Austrian population is being complained of – and both are directly related. That is why I am somewhat surprised that part of this House is not really following this discussion with interest. I would like to ask all of you, at least, to follow this discussion with greater interest, because finally this is about 11% of the gross domestic product, Mr Arbitrator! [[Abg. Arbitrary: There is the teacher speaking.]] [[Abg. You don't need to teach us!]] 11 per cent of GDP, ladies and gentlemen, is spent in Austria for a disease system that has long been reformed. This disease system causes costs, causes expenditure – so money that is put in this disease system that we need elsewhere. And there are possibilities to save massive parts of this 11 percent of gross domestic product. Mr Schieder, you are on the best track anyway, because you have realized that the direction you have taken before – forgive me if I take you as an example! – not quite the right one. Now, Mr Schieder, you are in the right direction anyway, you know that problems such as cardiovascular diseases and musculoskeletal disorders are causing enormous costs. [[Abg. Arbitrators: But fortunately without your help!]] As said, in total 11 percent of gross domestic product. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It is particularly remarkable that we have at least so far watched in most cases, if we have to find that Austria's children have an increasingly complainable state of health. More and more obesity, for example, up to 6 percent obesity-adverseness is already present among young people, and too little is done about it. 9.1 percent of the Austrian population are more than overweight, with a BMI of over 30! Ladies and gentlemen! We are faced with the situation that the cost of financing the health system explodes, and the reform approaches according to the old pattern are the wrong ones and are no longer taken into consideration by people. If it says again of some: We must shorten the benefits and increase the contributions in return, so that is no longer a matter for people to gout and not taken seriously. That is why we should seriously discuss what the alternative is, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In any case, these old patterns are not targeting, but they are just a brain doctor in the disease system. People expect us to make this disease system a health system. That is why I agree with the remarks made by Mr Rosenkranz, who said that there is a need for a paradigm change because the old system will collapse because of infinancing. [[Call the SPÖ: You had four years!]] You, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, had had 30 years to do something, but this system has developed in the wrong direction! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaál.]] Movement and sport, colleague Gaál, is a part of the solution. And many have already recognized this for themselves in the personal field, and I am delighted about it. – Mr Cap nodds now. Many have already personally recognized this as part of the solution, but 60 percent of the Austrian population are still motivated, ladies and gentlemen, to do so! 60 percent of the Austrian population do almost nothing or nothing in this direction. This potential must, as it were, be specifically developed. A completely new study by the IHS under Professor Felder shows – this is important for all those working on the budgets, my dear ladies and gentlemen – that up to 1.7 percent of the gross domestic product – expressed in figures: €3.6 billion per year – can be concluded if we make the sport effective as a service provider in the health system. Regular exercise reduces the disease risk by around 60 percent. And we make an offer: we from sports, from organized sports – and there are all included. That's what I'm glad to say: They're all in! The organized sport – whether ASKÖ, whether ASVÖ, or Union, all participate, make an offer under the title “Fit for Austria”. Together with organized sports, we want to move all over Austria: in the interests of all those who want to reduce the cost of the disease system and on average bring the well-being of the Austrian population to a higher level. This is a truly rewarding task for organized sports; the umbrella organisations have recognized this, and I am therefore very grateful to them that they are happy to carry out this task together with us. We have divided this project into four areas and we want to accompany all these four areas scientifically in order to get even more up-to-date data. We also want to compare with those areas in which nothing is done to point out even more impressively the potential for savings. On this project in detail, I hope you have already met at least in the first place: We start with the youngest ones in the kindergarten and we want to lay the basis for life-long moving there by additional opportunities of movement, because life-long moving simply means more well-being because life-long moving will also contribute to a reduction in costs. Already in kindergartens, children are to be made a range of activities according to their age, which means that the children are to be animated into more movement. This is also successful, and I can point out that we have already implemented this model in some federal states, for example in Burgenland, where we have already run four such projects thanks to the support of the mayor of Burgenland. Furthermore, we were able to implement this in Vorarlberg, in Tirol and in Salzburg with the umbrella associations, and wherever this was implemented there was overwhelming agreement here. 95 percent of all children participate in this project; parents too are very enthusiastic. There are no opponents, and therefore I hope that you, too, here in the House will support this in the future. Right now to the second area, to that of the school. The aim is to include organized sports, the voluntary afternoon care associations, in the field of voluntary afternoon care, to provide additional units of movement to help our young people to increase their movement. The behaviour of our young people is often complained of, but: Through sport, there is guaranteed to achieve some positive development. In any case, I will be very committed to this and try to ensure that at least in the course of voluntary afternoon care there is a daily movement. Our young people need movement – and Austrian health system will thank us for that. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The positive thing about this is that not only when we bring all young people to the move, but also when we get to the top of the world, we will certainly have some positive effects, because talents can be found more and more. – I am also pleased that Steffi Graf is now attending our discussion, but she is in complete agreement with me that it is necessary to get talent for top sports also through the school, but on the other hand to lay the foundation for lifelong movement. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] Mr Parnigoni, I have listened to your speeches so often and have not spoken out, therefore only: Let me speak because this issue is about something very reasonable! I guess that's what most people agree with me. If you don't, Mr Parnigoni, say that in a speech. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We come to an issue that is particularly important to me and where the greatest savings potential can be found: occupational health care. There is a huge potential for savings here, ladies and gentlemen. And we should take this seriously. The business environment is particularly attractive for health promotion programmes, because, at low cost, huge savings potential can be opened up, because the range of movements in the establishments, which are re-established with the roof associations, benefits both businesses and workers. And if everyone benefits from it, ladies and gentlemen, then we should all be behind this project, as well as behind the fourth part of the project: the range of movements for our seniors. There has been a mobility bus across Austria for a few days. We want to show the elderly people in Austria how they can spend a safe evening of life through targeted movement, how they can spend an evening at a higher level in terms of quality of life. This mobility bus, wherever it has been so far, is very welcomed by the older generation, because people know that they come to a higher quality of life over movement because they know that they can thereby also abandon many services of the disease system because they themselves do something to stay healthy. And that's what it's all about! [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is a way of getting us from the disease system to the health system, as we come to the healthy cash registers from all of you who are so accused of being “sick” and who are no longer eligible for funding. . I hope that all the parties represented here in Parliament will be supported.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00065_d7e1420	Thank you, Mr State Secretary. We are now entering the debate. Mrs Turkovic-Wendl spoke. I would draw attention to the fact that, according to § 97a of the Rules of Procedure, no one can speak for more than 5 minutes in this debate. Please, Madam Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00065_d7e1445	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary for Sports Affairs! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! You can imagine that this topic is especially important to me, not because I want to do everyone “healthy by sport” now, but because I just want to say something to you. – And I am particularly pleased that so many young people are sitting in the gallery, which I can welcome very warmly – and of course a greeting also at Steffi Graf, who is certainly a huge model for our youth! [[It is a surprise to the ÖVP and the liberals, as well as to the representatives of the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Now to what I actually want to tell you. – I have often thought of myself in my long-lasting life: What has actually been decisive for me to act in the way I did, behaved like it, or developed such ideas? And I can only say from my experience: It was the sport. Run on the ice by chance – and a life has developed out of it, which has been given early directions. I had to learn to overcome myself. I've had to learn to decide. I had to prove myself in front of the public, and I had to trust one or the other, which perhaps another 10-year-old, 15-year-old doesn't have to decide yet. "La longue" is not a terror to a child or a youth, but rather an advantage and a great potential for early learning and full self-confidence. All of this then helps with further career choice and whatever happens to one. In the speeches of my previous speaker, it said: If you could move, or: If a larger part of our population were to move. – Behind that is the fact that 60 percent of the population does not have any sport at all and 40 percent move one hour once a week. That's not a lot. But we have – and this benefits Austria’s reputation abroad – a lot of performance athletes. They have discovered what sports can mean, namely: not only earn money – that's what's going on today; it wasn't the case at my time, it was the purest amateurism; six wooden plates for a European master's title; that's at least the possibility of knocking on wood for a lifetime, but it's not more. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But what else is going on in sports? – It is also simply the desire, the desire to move, and the desire to get to know your own body: When can I do how much? How much can I trust in training? Do I have to do less today? How am I? How am I in shape? As a young person, once you get to know these possibilities, You don't lose this for a lifetime, even if you want to be lazy in the meantime; I too am often very happy to do so. But: Being in shape is something we can carry on. And I also say this as a senior speaker, I speak to the youth and I say: Build up your body, your muscle mass! And if you pause in between, you'll always be where you already have something. That's like a savings book. A savings book with money is fine, but a savings book of the body in the form that your muscles work is worth at least that much. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I am therefore also pleased to be able to recommend an initiative by our Minister for Health Maria Rauch-Callate. She has also taken in the humour with the “iSch”. This is about overcoming the “inner pig dog. ” I appeal to everyone here to consider not to be tormented, but to complain a little, to discover what really involves sports and what I find fascinating, perhaps as something wonderful for myself – for the first time or again. Finally, I would have a very big wish. We're sitting in plenary for 14 hours, and I think that's too long. [[Congratulations to representatives of the ÖVP, the Freeman and the SPÖ.]] If I was able to achieve that we were once in between – and not only mentally; we are doing that without interruption, but also with our body – I would be delighted and I am really excited about the suggestions of all the gathered here. If we did, we'd be a model for our youth and also for our older generation.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00065_d7e1559	The next speaker is Mr Wittmann. Same time of speech. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00065_d7e1577	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! The issue is a very serious one, and I also refer to a study commissioned by the Ministry of Social Affairs and the BSO. It is shown that the cost of sports accidents or other accidents that occur during the sports exercise is much lower than the benefits of health care by the fact that fewer people die early, that there are fewer heart disease, that there are fewer smoking diseases. This study shows that about 4.2 billion Schilling is spent on all accident costs, but the benefits generated by sports amount to about 7.8 billion schilling. We therefore agree – and also my previous speakers have said this here – that sport can play a very important role in health prevention and that every schilling put in sport, especially in wide-ranging sports, can be seen in relation to 1 : 2, i.e. 2 s in the field of health care. When I look at this short formula, I have to say: I am surprised that it has not succeeded in increasing sport promotion, that the last well-known legal or regular sport promotion took place during the last great coalition, that the amounts are practically frozen and that the representatives of the sport are unable to get an appointment from the Federal Chancellor as the competent Minister of Sports or an appointment to the Minister of Finance to talk now, as the budgets are being negotiated, about an increase in sport promotion. The BSO has been running since 20. January is trying to get an appointment from the Federal Chancellor, who is responsible as Minister of Sports, with the support of Mr. State Secretary, but also he has not made it possible for the Federal Chancellor to continue until today – and we are now writing in mid-June! – the effort has been made to receive the representatives of the sport. He has cancelled an appointment agreed for yesterday with a clear excuse, namely with the excuse that he must prepare for the summit on Friday. – The fact that this summit is taking place, he has known for more than a year, and that he has to prepare for this summit, he has known for a year. Nevertheless, he has set the date for Tuesday, but he has not found it worth the effort to observe this date, which was prepared for half a year. [[Abg. May. Molterer: The sportiest German chancellor the Republic ever had!]] It is not enough to give only awards that are very effective in the media, it is not enough to show up with top athletes to get to the newspapers, and it is not enough to show up on television with top athletes, but it is also necessary to act as a responsible sports minister to increase the funds! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] That hasn't succeeded until today. All these small measures are very effective, and I am completely d’accord with the State Secretary, but the competent Minister of Sports is torpedoing the increase in the budget and not taking care of sport and sports policy decisions. [[Abg. May. Molterer: The sportiest German Chancellor of the Second Republic!]] Just one last comment: Everyone here said that the daily hours of movement in schools would be the goal. Yes, ladies and gentlemen from the government parties, why do you cut the hours of sports just this year, where we still have the European Year of Education through Sport?- Oh, my God! With your school policies, you have contributed to the massive reduction of the hours in the sports sector, and then you make yourself and want to sell your sports policy measures here and say that you are acting for more movement! [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: But no!]] Especially in schools, it would be important to lead the children to sports in order to ultimately win them to stay in the sport for a lifetime. But they go the wrong way: You cut down the hours of sports in schools, you cut down the funds for sports training at the sports training institutes. That's the wrong way! They cannot make themselves there by the coalition parties and say that sport is important as a health prevention. That is not to reconcile with your actions! At the same time, they reduce school hours in sport and the training costs for the sports teachers and trainers. – Your words and actions do not fit together – just as much in your policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00065_d7e1664	The next speaker is Mr Lichtenegger. Also 5 minutes speaking time. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00065_d7e1683	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! On the school-hour debate, I would like to say that schools can decide for themselves where they want to cut short, and there are also gymnastics. Mr Wittmann, in your field you can very well influence the fact that this does not happen, rather than here, if we have the opportunity to hold a sports debate, talk about the date of Mr State Secretary. This does not help us much more. It's not in my sense that gymnastics are reduced, and we offer reasonable alternatives. That's the only thing we can do. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Call the SPÖ: You don't mind!]] Sports – which has been mentioned many times today – is an important preventive measure in health policy. There is a study of the Austrian social security funds – it is already a little older but still valid – where children from Germany, 13-year-old students, were asked what associations they have on the word health. 80 percent of children said: Illness, illness, hospital, doctor or medicine. 20 percent of 13-year-old students said: Sports and nutrition. In another country, a non-European country where children have the opportunity to develop even more in nature, less used to hospitals, 95 percent of children have associated with health terms that go towards diet, body, healthy, physical, environment, important, people, strong, and only 5 percent have called association sickness. How are we? – You live your life and then at some point you have some pain. What are you doing? – The usual way is to feel signs of disease, possibly detect symptoms, and if you don’t mind, chronic diseases – that’s the worst effect. We live a treatment model, but we want to try to prevent people from creating a corresponding awareness of knowing their own body, its most valuable capital. And that's where I have to contradict Mrs. Wendl: This is not to compare with an account, with money you have on the bank. The body has much more value than any account on the bank, because if the “account body” is empty, the bank account will not be any more money at any time. I think the most important thing is to create the appropriate consciousness, to convey to the individual how to deal with one's body, how to live healthierly. When we achieve this, we are a big step forward. Of course, the ideal condition would be if everyone really saw sports as prevention. But why does this discussion about sport as a prevention always run so side by side? It is always said that sport is important, but it is never discussed as much as it is about, for example, any budget issues that are certainly important. I think that prevention is a little bit tangible. Maybe a comparison. Almost every one of us has a car and knows, he has to go to the service once a year, he has to refill oil, he has to change the tires. If he doesn't, the car will stop sometime, and the repair costs much more than if you had had it repaired in time. That's what each of us understands. – But that you have to do that for your body, so have the least understood. It's much less spectacular, because if you're sick, you go to the doctor, get medication – and suddenly you're healthy again! [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Mr. Cap is a marathon runner. It will probably be cooled less often in winter because it is simply better from its physical performance than some others; it knows very well. [[Abg. Dr. Cap nockt agreeing]] You have to create this consciousness first, I think. That's important, and that's where we want to go. This has to be made clear to the people, because prevention is much easier than healing a chronic disease. We find it difficult to treat, prevent and treat even our best doctors, these chronic diseases, and we face the problem that these people have a lower quality of life and have to suffer. And we have a disease system with doctors and hospitals that for financial reasons are unable to cure these sick people. I believe that this is a point where we have to go – and thank God we have a State Secretary who is trying to create this awareness.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00065_d7e1738	I call Mr Brosz. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00065_d7e1757	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Sports promotes health. This is usually the case, but of course, sports also often result in injuries. In principle, however, it is undisputed that sports and movement in particular can have a positive impact on the health system. I believe, however, that if we are discussing sports in Parliament, we should also ask the question – away from confessions and fine words – which can actually contribute to policy in this area and which measures are taken. can, so that what you complain about may rightly complain that 60 percent of people have to do with sports, with movement relatively little to do with it. A brief look at the last few months or years: When this government was praised again, the Ministry of Sports was dissolved. There was a big stir in the sports scene at that time. The reasons given for this were, among other things: Sports is supposed to be chief business. Now Karl Schweitzer sits behind me, I find that very positive, but the “chef” was not related to him, but to Wolfgang Schüssel. I already have to find out what you hear and see from Wolfgang Schüssel about sport is very little. Once upon a time he noticed very much, namely at the winner's ceremony in Spielberg at the last Austria Grand Prix last year. You already believed he won the Grand Prix and not Michael Schumacher. Otherwise you have seen relatively little of Wolfgang Schüssel in the field of sport. This is a point to be changed. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Then you, Karl Schweitzer, mentioned the action “Fit for Austria”, a very positive action. You have also invited us, the opposition parties, to participate in this opening, in this test together with the members of the government. As we both know, this was then a somewhat strange situation, because almost the entire government had been notified, but then to this opening action finally came three FPÖ ministers and I. The ÖVP ministers did not come because there was competition with the "swine dog" from Mrs. Rauch-Kallat, and these went to the "swine dog" presentation rather than to the presentation of the action "Fit for Austria". So here, a little backsliding party policy, including in the government, would be the next point that could contribute positively to this. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Very soon to the hourly cuts. It's a little cheap to say that schools are guilty. We all know how the pressure came about: Hours have been shortened, and of course it has also hit the sport. You can now look at it worthlessly: There are fewer sports hours than in recent years, and this is certainly a failure in the face of your efforts. I find these confessions positive, the question is only: How can you do something, or how can you promote and support a trend towards more movement? It can be seen that sports success achieved by Austrians also has an impact on demand. As someone who comes out of tennis, I can well remember the boom that triggered it when Thomas patterned in the mid-1990s at once was number one in the world rankings. That's where we've had every second youth on the tennis court. If you look back at what happened now, then you will find that tennis in Austria is completely shipped that the structures did not fit. The question is: What led to that? Among other things, there has also been a very broad coverage of the media at the time, especially in the ORF. Tennis has really been pushed! And if you look at it today, you see, tennis apparently didn't really work. This is also an economic factor which is problematic: In the vicinity of Vienna, the tennis halls such as the Schwammerl have sprung out of the ground – they are now threatened by locking up. Apart from the fact that there are some “deserts” there, many jobs have also been lost because it has not succeeded in taking this boom. Now there are new sports that are also booming. I am thinking in particular of table tennis – Werner Schlager was world champion last year – and of swimming, which is now It's a massive tree. Especially as regards swimming, given the young situation, it will be seen that this sport will certainly be at the heart of the next few years. But I don't see anything in the ORF. I don't see any swimming transmissions. There are European champions coming, and you can look at the competitions with luck at TW1, but not in the ORF. There are other responsibilities to promote this. But the boom goes on. The trend towards the thermal baths is quite pleasing, but go to the Romans' thermal baths with two children, and pay for admission – you think you can take the starting block with you because you bought it, let alone that you go swimming there! That is, when it comes to creating the necessary infrastructure here, it is also measures that sport has to put in place. It's beautiful when one spa shoots out of the ground after another, but if people can't afford to go swimming at least, then we have another problem. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In this sense, I find the measures put in place by the State Secretary to be quite positive. I just think that we need to go beyond Sunday's speeches, parliamentary speeches and actually implement the announced measures that policy can put in place.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00065_d7e1844	Next speaker: Mrs Mikesch. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00065_d7e1862	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Sports makes the hearts of all Austrians beat higher – but unfortunately all too often only in front of the television sets or on the stands. Unfortunately, 60 percent of Austrians do not have regular sports and can thus be missed a lot of positive experiences, positive experiences that affect the state of health: 1 : 1. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It is proven by countless studies, while sporting activities do not prolong life, but very probably increase the quality of life of each individual. Sports, however, is also balsam for the soul, not only when Austrian skiers depend on our German or Swiss neighbours for seconds, but the depression rate drops by 30 to 40 percent for active people. Sports, however, is also a question of self-responsibility. Each person is responsible for himself, for his health and for his fitness itself. The Federal Government, in particular the Ministry of Health, is active in raising awareness. The action “iSch” by Federal Minister Maria Rauch-Kallat is an initiative to overcome his own internal pig dog, a holistic action ranging from healthy nutrition to occupational health care to enthusiasm for exercise and sport. However, I also refer to the initiative “Fit is a Hit” of the Austrian Sports Union. Trainers are trained for new, attractive activities such as Nordic Walking. By May 450 people were trained as professional trainers. With this action, the Sports Union offers an attractive new offer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! Stop your horror messages about the gym hours! The 2003 OECD study “Education at a Glance” shows that Austria is in excellent second place in the OECD countries with regard to the share of movement and sport in total education in the age group of 9 to 11 years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: These are old numbers! It's different this way!]] In the age group of the 12- to 14-year-olds, Austria is even in one place with France. The 12- to 14-year-olds in Austria have more than twice as much sport education as in Ireland and a third more than in Finland. This means that Austria is in the top European field. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: This is different today!]] But one thing has to be held: This federal government is committed to self-responsibility and club sport in sport. One thing we don't want: that students sit in schools all day from early to late and no longer have time for activities in the clubs! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This is perhaps your ideological approach, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, it is certainly not ours! Our Federal Government is proud of the global association network in Austria. I am very grateful today to the 200 000 volunteer officials who work in their associations every year with great personal commitment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] You see, ladies and gentlemen, there are very many possibilities on the part of the public. Benefits You these for yourself, for your healthy and active body! A very positive example for me is the core-healthy old president of the Ruderverein Niederösterreich, who, at his 90 years today, regularly exercises his beloved rowing sport. It is never too late to start with sports activity. It is up to you not to think of sweat and physical effort in sports, but to awaken in yourself the longing to be fit and healthy.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00065_d7e1946	The next speaker is Mrs Schasching. Same time of speech. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00065_d7e1965	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, my colleague Mikesch, the numbers you used are old numbers. Unfortunately, the state of the Austrian athletes, especially the children and young people, is not as good as you want us to know, and that is very, very bad. Today's hour sees a connection between health and sports activity, and this one cannot be rejected by hand. I wonder if that was really the reason for this current hour or if perhaps the motive was to finally address the more than 3 million Austrians who have already organized themselves in clubs, or if one might want to take the opportunity to say here that we are standing right in front of the Olympic Games. We are pleased with every athlete and every athlete who will take part in Athens, and are very happy about every Austrian participant and every Austrian participant, congratulate all those who have already qualified, and wish those who still have the qualification, everything, all good. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We will be happy about every medal, and certainly some politician will “sun” next to a sportsman who has won a medal. And that is what he should do – if he creates the foundations for it and provides support for the fact that such medals can be won at all. I therefore agree to draw your attention to the fact that, without exception, all Austrian Olympic participants come from organized club sports, that more than 90 percent of these associations are conducted volunteerly and that the responsible officials will not be in the spotlight even if one of their shooters is successful. I would also like to remind you that Parliament does not even have a federal sports promotion law for the next year, as has already been implemented. That is embarrassing and outrageous! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] However, the successes of our summer sportsmen will only be repeated if the necessary resources are made available to the Austrian government in good time. Here I also remember that successes such as those of our swimmers, rowers or athletes are only possible if one enables their associations to plan for the long term. To produce a stamina peak sportsman, it takes seven years of lead. – How should this go, ladies and gentlemen, if you have to tremble from one year to another around federal sports promotion?- Oh, my God! Long-term planning is not possible, and this is a shame for Austrian sport. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, I also allow myself to point out that we have already fallen significantly behind comparable countries in the promotions in the Olympic sports. Not least, we win more than 80 percent of our World and European Championships in non-Olympic sports. Therefore, I hope that Mr. Grasser, who appreciates the voluntary association, as we all know, anyway – I only remember his association “New Economy” and his homepage; since he knows how practical associations might be – he also ensures that organized club sports are provided with the appropriate resources to give the volunteering basis to the volunteer in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Scientific evidence of the potential for savings in our health system through broadband activities has long been achieved. It is beyond dispute that targeted sports practice can bring a clear relief from Austrian health insurance. It is therefore not possible to see why the government is not finally responding to it in the appropriate form. And the way of the turn-hour cut-offs – and you are now responsible for this by the government parties! – is certainly not the way in the right direction, but the way in the wrong direction. The associated costs for public health, which we are provoking, must be attributed to you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, the general finding is bad. The state of health of the 10- to 14-year-olds in the field of motion and support equipment, as has been demonstrated, is bad, is worrying. The smart and fit study has proved it. Federal Minister Gehrer has cut turn hours in response. The results of the sample – I am a member of the National Defence Committee – show a similar concern: an alarming amount of Obesity and weaknesses in the movement and support apparatus. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] That is why I urge Mr Bundeskanzler Schüssel – it is his responsibility, it is the general competence of the Minister of Sport in the government – to take these problems seriously, to ensure the financial security of organized club sports in the long term and to ensure it...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00065_d7e2073	Mrs Colleagues, the same right for everyone!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00065_d7e2088	Last sentence, Mr President: I call on you to encourage Mr Bundeskanzler, Mrs Bundesminister Gehrer, to take back turn-hour cuts, as well as to motivate the Minister of Health to achieve a long-term security of the health system and not also to face all those involved with the health reform. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00065_d7e2119	Mr Dolinschek. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please. Half a minute credit?
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00065_d7e2137	All right, thank you, Mr President. – Mr President, I would like to thank you for your support. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Sports promotes health. I believe that this is undisputed in all political groups and also in the population. Health is clearly considered to be the highest in our society, but the ideas about what health is are not uniform. The behaviour in the sports exercise is also extremely different. And if we are now distinguishing between top sports, broadband and leisure sports, I have to say one thing: The action “Fit for Austria – Sport as a service provider in the Austrian health system” has succeeded: to form a team from the infant with the promotion of talent through the school child with the school’s training of sports up to the older generation. It therefore covers the entire population. On the one hand, the talents of the kids are promoted, playful access to sports is forced, on the other hand, there is an early recognition for each individual to find out if certain disturbances are present in the motion apparatus. In addition to gymnastics in school, cooperation with sports associations and sports clubs is being forced. These facilities are optimally used here. “Fit for school”, “Fit for Business” – this is also something to strengthen the performance of the individual and thus his self-confidence and improve the working environment in the enterprises, reduce the number of sick people and, subsequently, achieve a long-term reduction in labour costs. For the generation of over 50-year-olds, there is a awareness going on to show her that through movement one is fitter in age, much healthier and one can also expect a higher life expectancy. Prevention is particularly important in this case and should be seen as a general social task. Of course, the situation on the labour market, income and wealth, education and transport, environmental quality, working conditions and personal life-style have a significant impact. That's what matters! Prevention will force an increase in quality of life, an improvement in health status in all ages and mobility up to old age. The economic cost-benefit account of broadband and leisure sports is also set up in Austria. On the one hand, the cost side, there are expenditures for sports injuries and accidents, which are statistically available at €302 million a year. The main responsibility for this cost attack is the loss of professional production and invalidity, as well as the disability. On the other hand, there is the benefit side on which the savings effect due to these sports activities is expressed: They amount to around € 566 million in Austria. This results in a balance of approximately €263 million, which is achieved through preventive measures. The main responsibility for this cost-saving effect is reduction in the area of occupational loss of production due to death and treatment costs. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this has clearly proved that the exercise of sports significantly reduces health costs and does not increase them. I come to my conclusion: In a timely precautionary measure there is a huge saving potential in favour of the entire health area. And regular physical activities through exercise and sports prolong life, make it more viable, keep fit and make mobile up to old age.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00065_d7e2182	Mrs Mag. Lunacek. Same time of speech. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00065_d7e2201	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schweitzer mentioned a few positive actions, such as the “Fit for Austria” action, but he also said that he wanted to make more sport in schools in the framework of voluntary afternoon care in cooperation with the sports clubs. Mr State Secretary, I see it as more of a poverty testimonie that you have not managed within the government to prevent the reduction of gymnastics in regular teaching. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the case of voluntaryness, those who like to play sports anyway, but it is about motivating and persuading those who do not like to do so and who perhaps have to overcome the inner pig dog. However, there was a need for more gymnastics in regular schooling. Mr State Secretary, I would like to ask you in this connection: What do you do, what does this Federal Government do to motivate these young people and children and convince them that they should practice different sports, and what offer do you make them? In this context, I would like to give an example: My nephew, who goes to school in Hartberg, would like to go swimming because he has problems with his back. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Can he ever!]] He can already go to the swimming pool, but to a swimming club where he learns where he can go regularly, he can not, because there is neither a sports club nor a swimming club there and there is no such offer from the school either. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: He can't blame the school!]] I think it would be very necessary to offer young people who would like to do this, who also want to train and not just swim a few lengths every now and then – especially at a time when we have Austrian European masters swimming, who hopefully will also cut off very well at the Olympics. By the way, I wish them all the best from here, including the other Austrian participants. [[It is a pleasure to the Greens as well as to representatives of the SPÖ and the ÖVP.]] Now we have some really great people, and they're role models, and you have to use them to motivate the boys. But how do you want to do this if there are 3,2 indoor pools that have 50-metre basins throughout Austria to train, namely, when it comes to competition. The 3.2 are: two in Vienna, one in Linz and two in a swimming pool in Salzburg with a length of 50 meters. I wonder where the athletes are to train for World Championships and European Championships if they do not have 50 metres of basins at their disposal. Just outdoors and only in summer? I can't! I know from my own experience that the 50 meter range is one to which you have to get used, because the end is very far away. With the 25-metre basin this is much easier, you make the turn and swim back. Therefore, Mr State Secretary: The new construction of indoor pools with 50-metre trains would now be the possibility resulting from the successes of Austrian swimmers. These successes could be given the opportunity to invest in the infrastructure. But I have not heard anything about this from your side, Mr State Secretary. This funding structure, of course, means more expenditure, means that there must also be more money for trainers. If the trainers of the top athletes earn about €7 000 a year, that's just too little. This is an investment, ladies and gentlemen, otherwise we will not be able to win the people – including the young people – to really be interested in sports and to participate enthusiastically in sports. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The theme of today’s current hour is “sport promotes health”, and I would also like to introduce in this context an aspect that is not just about sports in Austria, and I would like to look beyond the boundaries, namely where it is about the working and living conditions of women and men who produce the sportswear and the sports shoes that we and our top athletes and the children wear when they are sporting and when they are training. The production of sportswear and sports shoes takes place very often under violation of the most fundamental labour rights. Now you'll ask yourself: What's that got to do with health? But if someone has to work 12 to 14 hours a day, without a break and using toxic substances – in the manufacture of sports shoes and so on, things are used that should not be inhaled better – and if there is no review of these conditions, which is still the case at present, this is very harmful. I think that in a debate under the title “Sport promotes health”, one must also be interested in what happens elsewhere. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There is currently a campaign called "Play fair at the Olympics", and I would like to ask you, Secretary of State Schweitzer, that you also publicly support this campaign just now in front of the Olympic Party, that you also use it publicly to ensure that the working conditions of those people we like to wear when we are doing sports are also really so that we can wear these sports clothes with a good conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00065_d7e2281	No further words are available or are not scheduled. That's why I'm closing the current hour. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00065_d7e2299	With regard to the negotiated items and their allocation, I may refer to a document in accordance with § 23 para. ==References====External links== The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00065_d7e2465	We are now going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00065_d7e2484	We have only one item on the agenda, and we have achieved in the Presidency meeting of the Council that each group has a speech message not intended for more than five minutes. On the other hand, are there any objections? - That's not the case. That's what the house agreed to and we're going to do. Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (473 e.g._Other Organiser Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the United States of America on the addition of the Agreement of 29. March 1961 on the ERP-Counterpart regime (523 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00065_d7e2508	We come to the only item on the agenda. There is no need for oral reporting. We are now going into the debate. It is the first honourable Member to report on the matter. Molterer. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00065_d7e2538	Mr President. I'm starting my speech today with the request for mildness. I've never done that before. I am not going to be on the agenda item on the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the United States of America on the addition of the Agreement of 29. Mr President, I would like to talk about the ERP-Counterpart regulation on March 1961 – with which I also mentioned the title of this item on the agenda – but I would like to speak, Mr President Dr. Fischer, to use this opportunity to honour you as a parliamentarian and as a long-standing President of this House by the Club of the Austrian People's Party, because we know that this is the last National Council meeting to be attended by you as a Member of this House and to appoint you as the second President of this House. Time and again, in the history of Parliament and of parliamentarianism, there are individuals who, in a special way, shape this House, this Parliament – inward and external terms. Unfortunately, this has not always been the case – and this must also be said – if, for example, I think of the last special session here in this House. But you, Mr President, Mr Fischer, have to write in the positive main book that you are one of those personalities who have the image of the House, which has positively shaped Parliament inside and outside. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Lively general condolences.]] Mr President, you have been a member of this House since 1971 – with three years of interruption – and you have been a parliamentarian for 30 years. They have been the first President of this House for 12 years and the second President since 2002. You, Mr President Fischer, have experienced a lot in this House, such as the SPÖ government, the SPÖ/FPÖ government, a SPÖ/ÖVP government and also an ÖVP/FPÖ government. You, Mr President, have not only experienced the parliamentary width, but I can say so too. [[Abg. Oils: Not quite!]] You're a full blood parliamentarian. I think that you have drawn exactly from this full conviction of the democrat, the full-blood parliamentarian, this positive image, this striking positive image of this House, of the Austrian Parliament. You are someone, Mr President, who is particularly concerned about the dignity of this House. I think that not only through your personality you represent the dignity of this House, but also in your presidency you have defended the dignity of this House with every fiber at every stage. [[General condolences.]] As President of the House, you, Dr Fischer, in particular, have a lasting merit: the opening up of Parliament, the transparency of Parliament, the opening up of the House to citizens, and hence also to Parliament's experience. You, Mr President Fischer, are indeed a political president – a political president, whom I have also experienced during many government negotiations – but you have always tried to ensure objective leadership in this House in this capacity as political president, although – this is no surprise – there has sometimes been different assessments about it; that is simply part of it. I would like to thank you very much, on the part of the Club of the Austrian People's Party for your work, Dr. Fischer, for our Republic of Austria here in Parliament! On behalf of the Club of the Austrian People's Party, I would like to give you, Mr President, the best wishes for your new office, which you will take in a few weeks, after the fishing visit also here at the Federal Assembly! Their success as President of all Austrians is the success of our Republic of Austria. In this sense, Mr President, Mr Fischer, good for the future!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00065_d7e2616	I call Mr Gusenbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00065_d7e2634	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! A sentence on the present agreement: I think that the agreement makes sense because it increases Austria's ability to increase and flexibly use the funds for research, technology and development, and therefore it makes sense to give this agreement its approval. - That's the first one. Secondly, I would like to join Mr Molterer's practice and to dedicate the debate on this item on the agenda to the fact that Heinz Fischer will leave Parliament today. I can agree with much or all of what Mr Molterer said, because it is indeed the case that today, with Heinz Fischer, someone is leaving Parliament who has been active in many functions here. Heinz Fischer did not start here as a Member, but as a club secretary, he did the very essential, academically qualified work that not only supports and accompanies the lives of parliamentarians, but is an activity without which Parliamentaryism would no longer be imaginable. In addition, Dr Fischer was a highly-pointed club chairman of the Socialist parliamentary group and eventually became a President of Parliament, who, I believe, has found the approval of all the parties represented here in the House. That was a long way, a path with a wide variety of activities, and I think it can be said that because of the diversity of his activities in Parliament, Heinz Fischer has become something like an epitome of Parliament and Parliamentary and parliamentaryism. Most importantly, it was certainly his efforts to open up Parliament, not only to the interested public, who, on the “day of the open door” or in plenary debates, took a very strong part in parliamentary deliberations, but also to art and culture, which is very important. There have also been very many different presentations, performances, exhibitions and are still taking place here in Parliament. However, I would also like to say that Heinz Fischer and many others have contributed to the fact that Parliament is a very different Parliament today than it was 20 years ago. Many today can no longer imagine their work without Parliamentary staff and without doing all the technological possibilities that have been created for Members. This was done under the presidency of Heinz Fischer, I would say, a very great leap forward in the quality of Parliament's work. Parliament's participation in the Austrian reconciliation fund and in what has been done should also be included in the long list of achievements of its time, because, I believe, it also shows that the Austrian Parliament is today a working parliament, where it is possible for Members to work, and this contributes to the fact that the Austrian Parliament enjoys a significantly higher appreciation among the citizens of our country than is sometimes assumed. All of this is, of course, in association with all the others who have contributed and associated with the activity of Heinz Fischer as President of Parliament. [[General condolences.]] Dr. Heinz Fischer will be on the basis of the results of the election of 25. April this year are praised as the Austrian President of the Federal Republic in a few days, and he is thus the first President of the Federal Republic for a long, long time, who, before becoming President of the Federal Republic of Germany, has had parliamentary practice and experience. I believe that this is a very important experience because I derive from the fact that contacts between the Austrian Parliament and the newly elected Austrian head of state will develop very well and constructively in the future. Although his role and position will be new in the future, I believe that his heart will continue to beat the Austrian Parliament. Dear Heinz Fischer, good for the future in the new office! Happy up and toi, toi!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00065_d7e2702	Mr Scheibner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00065_d7e2720	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! The present agreement is really a very sensible matter, an important item on the agenda, and I am particularly pleased that we can reach a consensus on this agreement from a very objective discussion. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, Fischer is changing the house, so to speak. The title remains the same, but instead of the word “Parliament” the word “Bund” comes before it, so he turns to the highest office in the state, after a very long political and also very long parliamentary career. Since 1990, i.e. since Heinz Fischer was President of Parliament, I have been here as a Member of Parliament, and as such I have been able to pursue his office here – which I sometimes did critically and at times quite well with recognition. If you think you've been in this business for a long time, and then you look at President Fischer's curriculum, you know what a long, experienced political career is. President Heinz Fischer has become a member of this House in 1971 – I was just eight years old – and has held a whole series of functions here and has always completed them politically. There are, of course, political conflicts in the case of political functions, and they have also always been - probably also in their own ranks, certainly also with the other political groups and with the other parties. The relationship with our group was not always free of frustration either. I can still recall very intense debates and debates, including debates on the Rules of Procedure, which President Fischer has held with my predecessors as presidents of the club, up to a point where we still have a different opinion: the decision to give part of our group the status of a separate club in 1993. But I think that is history, too, and I can say here that we, as a liberal political group, too, recognise Heinz Fischer's work as President. He has opened this House, and he has always tried to separate his role as President, especially here in the House, from his role as Deputy Party President of the Social Democratic Party. He was a parliamentarian and still is, and I assume that a bit of this consciousness as a parliamentarian can also be taken with him in his new role. He understood this role as President of Parliament also in its external impact – in its external impact towards the Austrian population, but also in its external impact vis-à-vis the representative of Austria abroad. I believe that this too is of particular importance: that one tries to use the respective official functions to strengthen the image, the reputation of Austria abroad. And that, I think, will also be a major task in his new function. Thank God for having succeeded in this election campaign, from which Heinz Fischer, as a winner, came out as a winner, did not damage either the office or the person; this was not always the case in the Federal Presidential elections. That is why, I believe, we can express the hope that Heinz Fischer will be a Federal President for all Austrians, who will play a dynamic, active role in the country, but above all abroad. The office of the President of the Federal Republic is often in discussion – whether it is necessary to do so: Now, as far as perhaps the internal task is concerned, one can always discuss it, but with regard to the role as representative of the Republic of Austria abroad, in order to maintain positive contacts as such with colleagues in the various countries, this function is irreplaceable. In this sense, Mr President Fischer, I should also like to thank and acknowledge, once again, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats for its decades of work as a parliamentarian, for a decade as the first President of Parliament, and for all the good in the sense of Austria in its new role as an independent, dynamic, active President.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00065_d7e2778	Mr Van der Bellen spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00065_d7e2797	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not a farewell that we celebrate today, but Heinz Fischer changes “only” – under quotation marks – to the Hofburg. That's why we don't need to get too hurt either: Heinz Fischer remains with us. I can only agree fully with the words of my previous speaker: Firstly, we agree with Agenda item 1 and secondly, as regards the merits of Heinz Fischer, in particular, as the President of the National Council. I have already met him a little earlier – if I am not mistaken, it must have been your first year as a Member of Parliament, Mr President, 1971. There you were at the University of Innsbruck to advertise for the forthcoming Firnberg’s reforms of the university structure, and with you was a young official who later became section head. At the time I noticed – I remember well; I was not eight years old, I must have been in the middle, at the end of the 20th – the official who presented quite objectively and directly what is now to come – and Heinz Fischer, the politician. In the discussion, he has, as it were, kept his back open for any changes that may be made, or modifications that are still to be made. This impressed me very much. Our next encounter was in the early or mid-1980s. At the time, Heinz Fischer was Minister of Science, and there was such a small research project: “The economic perspectives of the Austrian arms industry”, edited by an independent young researcher – let’s say – Peter Pilz, and I had the pleasure of being project manager. [[Rejoicing with the Greens]] Why Heinz Fischer has approved this project – this is something that historical research remains reserved. [[General hustle and bustle.]] Anyway, this was very interesting for me: There were plenty of interventions from SPÖ side to drop this project – I got some call every week in my harmless office in Liechtenstein street – there were also interventions from the ÖVP, but less, and FPÖ was against it anyway – fresh beater was then Minister of Defense and didn't want to know anything about this study from home. I learned a lot at the time – Heinz Fischer probably wasn't new. And then I have experienced positive – very, very positive – experiences with Heinz Fischer as President of the National Council, and at this time we have made great modo, in general, positive – as an impartial, fair leader of this House, as an excellent expert in the Rules of Procedure – not always at our own pleasure – as an expert in all the precedents that are right now – and the others who might also fit have just missed one – as a tactful Mahner, I would say here at our meetings. I understand that this office is often difficult, don't I? You don't want to be too obtrusive, but you have to take care of peace and order. – I think Heinz Fischer has done this very well in general. And he has also found the right words outside the actual meetings, for example at the annual commemorative meetings on the victims of National Socialism. Maybe the following: Heinz Fischer has not always had it very easy with the greens. My previous speakers have rightly pointed out how much he is concerned about the so-called dignity of this House. And I can remember that once there was a government reception for a royal house, if I wasn't mistaken, and it turned out, unfortunately, that half of the green club was trying out new skaters right in the column hall. – That can't have been quite easy. Our club also likes to say that Madeleine Petrovic once with an animal protection organization at Heinz Fischer – the protocol after all the second Man of the state – in the office was and one of the dogs – dogs were also with – has happened there a little miscarriage. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That was a beaver's rat!]] – So I promise we don’t plan and plan to duplicate similar events in the Hofburg! Mr President, Mr Fischer! Also from the Green Group – you do not need it, but I say it anyway – thank and recognition for these many years of your presidency! They're not losing us. I hope for a good re-sight in the Hof- burg and that you will also have your office there so unceremoniously, but with the same efficiency as here in this House! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00065_d7e2850	No further words are available. We shall vote on the request of the Financial Committee, which has a good chance to be adopted unanimously, in 473 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their consent to this, to give a sign in this regard. – I notice: A unanimous decision shall be taken on this proposal. Farewell address of the Second President
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00065_d7e2881	Ladies and gentlemen! I really did not expect this in this form – Mr Molterer, Mr Scheibner, Mr Van der Bellen, Mr Gusenbauer, you have expressed it today in a way that I will really remember and which will be unforgettable to me – that you will express such recognition and make such a joy! I will be very, very hard to justify this and to give you commitment and gratitude: through work, through contacts, through joint efforts. It's true: Last Friday at lunch at the desk, I had a declaration of relinquishment for my mandate in the National Council, and I have been delaying for a few seconds until I took my ballpoint pen and signed this renunciation – which is dated at the end of today's session, this session, and will therefore become effective in a few minutes – because I have gone through the head that it was my professional, political and personal life, which I spent to a very large extent in this House. I have determined to say good-bye to all of you in a decent and decent manner, and I am grateful that the Bureau, the Presidential Conference, has given me the opportunity to do the same. And I'm not doing it without a certain movement, because I'm on the 2nd. January 1962, on which I started working here in the house – there you, colleague Scheibner, were still not in the world, that was a year before your date of birth – can still remember well. It was the last weeks of Leopold Figl's term as President of Parliament. – I do not have the time to tell you my impressions of the time, nor the working conditions of the parliamentarians at that time. In the SPÖ club there were two ladies, an office servant and a chauffeur next to the clubman and the club secretary. That was all the staff available to this group at the time. I do it on the other hand, however, in the consciousness – as you have said recently – that it is not a farewell to retirement, but that I will take on a new task. And I am looking forward to this task, not least because it will continue to give me an opportunity to contact Parliament. And then, after a few years as a club secretary – who naturally had contact with other club secretaries, one of whom was sitting on the government bank, and a little later played football together – I am on 4. In November 1971, in this hall, where Kreisky and Firn were still on SPÖ's side at the time. were praised on the ÖVP side Karl Schleinzer and Rudolf Sallinger and many others and on the freedom of movement Gustav Zeillinger and Dr. Broesigke. You may be interested in the election of President Anton Benya by 164 votes. Four votes were cast on other Members, and the rest on 182 – because it voted in 182 – was invalid. Then the second President's election was on the agenda. At the time it had the SPÖ an absolute majority. The candidate for the Second President was Alfred Maleta, and he received 165 votes. Five votes have been cast on other candidates, and two have been less invalid than the President's office. I don't know if I can and should say that now, but that evening at the reception of the Federal President, a leading officer of the SPÖ Group said to me: Well, the Secretary-General did not pay proper attention to the fact that the Second President has more votes than the First President. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] – I have always noticed this, although I believe that the influence of the club secretary has been somewhat overestimated. I have attended 1 331 plenary sessions of the National Council since I was fishing in 1971 – I have had this calculated. [[General condolences.]] During this period, there were 844 ladies and gentlemen who were working as members of the House, so I saw and went to some 844 parliamentarians. In 1975, I was elected as managing clubman, then as Visavis by Stephan Koren and later by Alois Mock. And even if I count time as a minister of science, I have been taking part in just over 820 presidential sessions since then. You can believe that, in such a long time, you get to know Austrian parliamentarism quite precisely, that you experience peaks and low points, that strengths and weaknesses observe that you are proud of much, sometimes prefer to remove something from the annals of parliamentarism, but in total become an enthusiastic and convinced parliamentarian. I am well aware – and I do not want to get into an euphoria – that neither our parliamentarianism nor our democracy is flawless, because there is no faultless parliamentaryism as much as faultless people or flawless politics or flawless parties. But one thing I believe to be able to say with certainty, namely that Austrian parliamentarianism cannot only be hidden but can be seen in comparison with other European parliaments. And I'm proud of that, that's important, and I want to stress that today. And I would like to add that in this House, after everything I can see, real serious, committed and most extensive work is being done, and I ask the Austrian public to believe this and to accept me as a witness to this committed work of the ladies and gentlemen in Parliament. [[General condolences.]] To the difference from the First Republic, which has led us down, as we all know, we have found the way to democratic normality in the Second Republic – this is an expression that has recently fallen into a conversation between the Chancellor and me – democratic normality, which means that beyond all differences of opinion and beyond all contradictions, joint work unites us – in the common intention of never and under any circumstances to let us get rid of this path of democratic normality. At the same time, the plurism of opinions and concepts, which is indispensable in democracy, is the cause of the democratic dilemma and of the democratic paradox, according to which the conviction of the correctness of one's own position is of course linked to the conviction that the opposite positions cannot be correct, that they are wrong, that they may even be harmful. And this results in contrasts and tensions. The particular thing about democracy, however, is that it knows instruments for how to implement these opposites in a way that is fair and, above all, according to generally accepted rules. The art of democracy – and I believe that it is possible to use the term “political work of art” – is simply to express opposites in such a way that one can rightly use the multi-layered expression of “political culture”. At this hour, save me the answer to the question of heights and depths in the memory of the parliamentary events of the last 40 or 32 years! There have been real star-hours: touching moments, great debates, decisions with far-reaching effects; but also failures, derailments, stormy conflicts. If I listened carefully to you right now, I would think that my memory does not deceive me that in the end we have almost always found a word or a procedure to clean up such a thing. That's a good practice! I am convinced that you will continue to do so in the future. But perhaps we should also consider whether we should not go beyond the day to deeper roots for so many confrontations and for so many clashes, for example through increased joint efforts to rework the most sensitive phases of our history. The Joint Event on the 12. This year, February was a good start, which I believe calls for continuation. I would like to allow myself, in my new role, to come back on this subject in an appropriate way. Ladies and gentlemen! Three of the four political groups in this House have experience as both a government party and an opposition party. For the Greens who have only taken a foothold in Parliament in the 1980s, a government participation is not yet in the history books, but it can one day still become a reality. The conclusion is that, in the knowledge that we can sit on both the government bank and the opposition bank, we are in the end well advised to condone the governments in this country, who are working on a democratic election outcome, in their own way to try the best for Austria; and in the same way In this way, we should approve of the opposition, however it may be composed, even if it represents ideas which differ from government policy, which are indispensable to democracy. On this occasion, and also in the light of recent experience, I would like to express the conviction that, as a politician and as a parliamentarian of the European Agenda, we obviously need to pay even more attention – with united forces – than before. [[Lively general condolences.]] If there has been a certain group of politicians and mandaters on the move almost continuously in European affairs, but others have perhaps paid less attention to this area, then we need a corresponding networking of the Austrian discourse with the discourse on European issues, because these two areas have a lot to do with each other and can no longer be separated at all! I am also convinced that it is wrong to believe that we must decide in a keenly defined way between the representation of Austrian and those European interests. Since Austria is an integral part of Europe, we must think and act in an Austrian and European way. And we must succeed in bringing these two levels as close as possible to each other! [[General condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to thank you once again, first of all, for the Group chairmen for these incredibly honorable words. Mr Colleagues Van der Bellen, I have to say on some occasion that they weren't dogs, but Nutrias, who brought Mrs. Petrovic to my office. [[General hustle and bustle.]] In addition, I can answer your question – you meant, you don't know why Dr. Fischer, as Minister of Science, signed this act on the trial on arms conversion. Do you know what that was? – When I came to the office as a minister of science on the day of my fishing, Mrs. Federal Minister Hertha Firnberg handed over the agendas as a new minister in her strict but charming manner, the employees introduced me, showed me the empty desk and said: I've done everything, I've signed everything to you, only one act I've left, that's about the project of Professor Van der Bellen; best of all, you sign it! – [[general hustle and bustle]] And I signed it on the first day of my term of office. [[New cheerfulness as well as applause with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] And this act has occupied me for some time, but not so much because the applicant called Van der Bellen, but because his employee called Peter Pilz. [[general hustle and bustle]] [[Cheerfulness with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] That is the whole truth! I hope to have made this one point clear. I thank all the employees of this House, of which I welcome many, of course not all – because this would not allow the work – here in the meeting room. Today I have agreed with the staff representative that I will be happy to invite all employees to the Hofburg for a jause in autumn. I would like to thank the members of the Presidential Conference for the good, important, fair, not always smooth, but ultimately for our common cooperation. I would like to wish that member of the National Council, elected to the Bureau at the beginning of the forthcoming meeting, the best possible success and great pleasure with this beautiful task. I would also like to thank the electorate who, since 1971, have given me the opportunity and the opportunity to work as a member of this House in a total of ten national elections. And I thank you very much, very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, which I have come to know and appreciate as colleagues and which have made me particularly happy today, I said. I'd like to assure you that you're on the 8th. In July, together with the members of the Federal Council in the Federal Assembly – as has already been suggested – a Federal President will be very much committed to maintaining a good and trusting contact with the Austrian Parliament, the National Council and, of course, the Federal Council. So I look forward to a review on 8. July and I am convinced that we will serve our homeland, the Republic of Austria, and a peaceful and democratic Europe together to the best of our strengths and full commitment. I'm sure you're alive. – Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00065_d7e3070	Before I close the meeting and see how the Homo Parliamentary Heinz Fischer is likely to go out there, I would like to say a few words on behalf of the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Heinz Fischer, according to the general appreciation given to you. Over 40 years of your life, since 1962, you have been a servant of the Republic here in Parliament and also a symbol that everyone can become everything in this Republic: started as a club secretary – today one would say club director – then MP, Clubobmann, Minister, National Council President and the next Federal President. You have in all functions Their best, the Republic has shaped. You have not only shaped the National Council, you have also shaped the Republic! You can say that today. Great expertise, great work effort – because there is no price without any effort – and a strong person who was able to build bridges from fixed shores – because your firm shore, Mr President, is and remains the social democracy! That's why I gave you the nickname "Salomon" at the Presidential Conference once, because the public does not know: The fact that this House works the way it works, and that we do not allow Members to get rid of each other, but rather that there is a proper discourse here, even in times before elections, depends on the fact that consensus is reached in the Presidential Conference between the various legitimate views – for everyone wants to shine and everyone wants to assert his opinion. In such a difficult constellation, then, as a social Democrat in a new government from ÖVP and FPÖ here to be president and chairman and to always act in consensus and without criticism of the government parties or opposition parties in all these years – this is an extraordinary achievement, Mr President! They also took out the house from an ivory tower and made it a meeting place. Parliament is today one of the major event centres in the Republic. Books are presented, pictures displayed, there are discussions – a meeting place dayout, dayin. This opening is inseparably linked to your name. Also that next year we can devote the building of the Palais Epstein for historical and parliamentary purposes to Theophil Hansen, the builder of this house, will always be associated with your name, Mr President. With great recognition, I would like to say that you have always succeeded in your position as deputy party chairman of traditional social democracy, despite some criticism – and I have also heard of it – but in general, “grosso modo” someone has said to link with an entirely independent, impartial, moderate presidency. This was honoured by all the political groups today. I thank you on behalf of the National Council, Mr President. We know that we will now have one of the insurgencies on the other side of the Volksgarten. I believe that after Renner – he was also in the Bureau – you are the first to move from here to Hofburg. We all wish you good luck, good luck! We are convinced that work for our Republic of Austria will continue with great success. Live the Republic of Austria! – Thank you, Heinz Fischer! [[General condolences.]] Now it becomes much more prosaic. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00065_d7e3136	I am still announcing that self-employed applications 411/A to 413/A have been tabled at this still ongoing session. Question No 1873/J to 1889/J has also been raised. I call for the next meeting of the National Council at 3:58 p.m. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. This meeting is closed.
