ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e2239	The meeting was opened. The official protocols of 83. Meeting of 10. ==References====External links== Meeting of 11. In November 2004, the European Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies are reported as preventative, Dr. Bleckmann and Walch. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e2270	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e2410	Mr Stadlbauer, fellow Members, asked for urgent consideration of the written question put to the Federal Chancellor before the entry into the agenda 2315/J by Dr Cap, colleagues on “the threat to the fundamental consensus of the Second Republic by the Federal Government”. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed at 3 p.m. Let's go into the agenda. The report of the Committee on Budgets on the Government Template (650 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the Approval of the Federal Estimate for the Year 2005 (Federal Finance Act 2005 – BFG 2005) and Appendices (670 of the Supplements). Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e2437	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day-block speaking time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ is proposed, so that the following speaking times arise: ÖVP and SPÖ each 158 minutes, Free 108 minutes and Green 117 minutes. The term of office of the member of the government responsible for the respective advisory group, which exceeds 20 minutes, or the speaking time of the Secretary of State responsible for the respective advisory group, which exceeds 10 minutes, shall be taken into account for the speaking time of the respective government group. Furthermore, the speaking time of non-governmental government members or state secretaries should at least be taken into account for the speaking time of the respective government group. The House shall decide on this Rules of Procedure. We shall now proceed to the vote, and I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign on this. – This is unanimously accepted. That is why we are doing so. Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (650 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Law on the Approval of the Federal Estimate for the Year 2005 (Federal Finance Act 2005 – BFG 2005) together with investments (670 d.b.) Advisory Group VI Chapter 12: Education and culture Chapter 14: Science
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e2495	We are now negotiating the Advisory Group VI: Education, science and culture, the 2005 Federal Proposal. This debate is accompanied by sign language interpretation. – I warmly welcome the sign speakers. [[General condolences.]] A request for oral reporting on this advisory group is not available on the part of the Special Rapporteur. We are therefore entering the debate. Mr Ddr. spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Decliner. Requested time: 5 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e2532	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! We are now negotiating the complex of education. In the “Morgenjournal” I have heard that above all it will be about the high school law to deal with this undemocratic procedure that you have chosen here. But before we do, we are still dealing with the educational budget. The representatives of the government parties say that they are satisfied with the budget, very satisfied, it is the highest of all times, and so on. We're not satisfied with that, and you'll probably be little surprised either. In fact, it is not as significant as we argue here, but rather the question is: Are the students, are those who are active in education, the teachers, the people at the universities are satisfied with this educational budget? Can they deal with it? Can she work well with it? And to that our answer is a clear no; that is our main criticism. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The Austrian parent associations, together with the teachers' union, are launching a citizens' initiative for school quality because they see it at risk. In the “standard” we read the clear analysis: The schools really have less money at their disposal. – In the “Kurier” of 24. October reads: Primary and folk schools are threatening dramatic savings. – And what does Lower Austria’s National School Council President Stricker say? – You can't send the kids around like postal packages. That's exactly the problem here! This is an inhuman, unsocial way of dealing with people, and that is starting with the smallest! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Education policy is therefore absolutely not a priority you place here, and the Lisbon strategy that the EU gives us to the knowledge-based society is absolutely not taken seriously. We have been very detailed about educational issues. We have presented a clear programme and we will decide at the end of November. Mr Amon said that this was an old hat, but let us talk about this “old hat, ” Mr Amon! For example, adult education is concerned with introducing new methods of analysis of the strength and weakness of the persons concerned, such as: In order for us to be much more targeted in the field of continuing training, the courses can be active. They're not old hats. I'm convinced they're so new that most of you don't even know these things right. Or take the teachers. Our concepts, our objectives are quite clear: We want a new education at higher education level. But what does the Federal Government do, what do you oppose the teachers – the most important players in the education system? They clearly say they are trained at higher education level, but they continue to be paid at Matura level. This is in the Civil Service Law, which we are about to negotiate in the Constitutional Committee and then in plenary. That is the clear message you think of people: less than they can actually do. However, we will try to ensure that teachers also have a position in the law of the ministry that is due to them because of training. – Leave You're on it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For the purposes of the previous remarks, I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] With this proposal, we would like to point out what is absolutely necessary in order to keep the education system in line with the quality standard required by this parent initiative, and we would like to ask you: Voices President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e2655	Mr Ddr. The motion for a resolution tabled by the President on the Advisory Group VI, Chapter 12 – Education, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e2729	The next speaker was Mr Amon, MBA. 6 minutes speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e2749	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, on the comments made by Dr. Niederwieser in connection with the reorganisation of the Austrian high school. Dr. Niederwieser, if the high school structure is adapted to that of the universities that were reorganised in 2002, this has nothing to do with “undemocratic practices” at all! You insist on the SPÖ in your structural-conservativism – we, on the other hand, focus on the challenges of time! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] They also assume that this would be done to break up existing majority groups. – This too is quite clearly opposed: Throughout decades, the community of action that is close to us has had the majority in the Austrian high school – and now, because left groups have accidentally won two ÖH elections, you say from the SPÖ, we would want to change the ÖH! – That’s really absurd! The allegation of “undemocratic procedure” lacks any reality! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Sburny: You don't hold out that there is one other than your majority!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] To the budget, which is one we are pleased with, with which we are very satisfied: I would like, in particular, to congratulate Mrs Elisabeth Gehrerer on what is happening in Chapter 12, which covers adult education, culture and schools. The budget available for this is € 5.95 billion, which, compared to the previous year, means an increase of 1.18 percent, i.e. an increase of € 69.3 million. 1 billion Schilling, ladies and gentlemen, we are spending more on the Austrian school system this year! It represents the highest educational budget since 1945 – and this is a very nice success, Mrs Bundesminister, whom you can book! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Moreover, this also applies to staff expenditure: Staff expenditure can also be increased by around €71 million, plus 3.25 percent – and the wage increases are not yet included. – To raise the accusation that we would break the education system is certainly not justified and goes completely empty. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr. Dr. Niederwieser, we have rightly accused you of coming back with old hats, because you actually do. For example, we would be sending children like “post parcels ” through the area. . Obviously you, Dr. Niederwieser, have forgotten the debate a few weeks ago, because it was you from SPÖ who proposed to the Austrian Convention that there should be no smaller school locations than those with 300 students. That would mean, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, that any second compulsory school in Austria would be threatened by closure or mergers! [[Abg. May. Darabos: This is the untruth!]] – There will be no such thing as this with us, I can tell you clearly! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] They are the ones who already want to make grandchildren – on the other hand, we say those who are stoned and clear: We invest a lot also in small school locations, because it is important for us that the children have a corresponding school offer on the spot and do not have to become commuters in childhood! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] So this is not in question for us – and there you will notice our bitter resistance! This is also the reason why we don't say that there can be a reduction in the maximum number of students immediately and with a blow, but you have to look at this, of course, compared to the declining numbers of students. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That's unbelievable what you're saying!]] Therefore: If there are fewer children in compulsory schooling in Austria this year by 18,000, this must logically result in our responding accordingly. They take a course from the SPÖ in education policy, which on the one hand has gone completely backwards, for example, with the old hat abolition of grades, the introduction of a common school of the 10- to 14-year-olds, with the old hat all day school, as far as possible in compulsory form, and so on. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: PISA study!]] – All this, ladies and gentlemen, we do not want to! We want an education system from the ÖVP that addresses the inclinations, the gifts and the interests of young people. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: You want a popular damnation! That's all you want!]] We want a system of education, which represents a differentiated and performance-oriented offer, a system of education that corresponds to the inclinations and interests of young people. That, mine. Ladies and gentlemen, in this area too, is the only forward-looking one! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, I have to blame you from the SPÖ – and this is what you have to blame – for an blatant problem regarding Vienna, which is the situation in the public primary schools, for example. There are no first and second performance groups in the main schools in Vienna. In Vienna there are districts in which between 60 and 70 percent of a year go to a generally forming high school; on the national average, there are 30 percent. That is, you are forcing from the SPÖ in Vienna virtually two parallel models of education: on the one hand, a generally forming high school, without internal differentiation – on the other hand, a primary school, and also without internal differentiation! In this way, there has to be a level loss! But they do nothing good from the SPÖ to the children, because this ultimately means that fewer and fewer young people in Vienna find a teaching place; I say that very clearly here. [[Abg. May. Darabos: Because of your policy!]] Especially the very good dual vocational training in Austria – I stress – is contributing to the fact that we have such a low rate of youth unemployment internationally. The accusation that you always address to us from the SPÖ, we would cut the system apart from the coalition parties, without any basis! On the contrary: This year, the education budget has seen a significant increase! But what poses a danger to the education system and thus to the future of young people is equalizing, is a one-way approach to interests, to tendencies and gifts of young people, as you, from the SPÖ, present this to the public in your education programmes – already in the 14-day rhythm – even though you can see that the content does not change significantly. It is indeed old hats, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e2950	In order to make a corrective statement, the honourable Member has the power to do so. Kuntzl. 2 minutes speaking time. You know the Rules of Procedure, Madam Members. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e2972	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Amon has just said – for the time being – that the SPÖ would have proposed to close small school locations. [[Call the ÖVP:Yes! That's right, too.]] [[Calls at the SPÖ.]] For the time being, I'd like to put this right: The SPÖ has not, of course, made this proposal! We are, however, concerned with summarizing administrative units in order to – on the contrary! – to secure the small school locations in order to need fewer staff for the administration level and to have more teachers! [[Abg. Grandruck: That's exactly the same!]] I'm going to do this again and again and I'm happy to do it right.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e3039	The next speaker is Mr Brosz. Desirable time: 8 minutes. – Please, you are at the floor, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e3057	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It would take too much time for me to replicate Mr Amon's remarks – and at all this was marked in a form of political debate that I do not want to address, because I believe that education policy has deserved a little more seriousity! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Let's try it with this – and let's look at the global figures of this budget. Mr Amon mentioned that this was the highest budget since 1945. – Thank God, I can only say that the 2005 budget is higher than that of 1946 and also of 1978! This applies to all budget approaches. Last week, Mr Niederweiser said in a side-by-side remark that every budget, which is only slightly rising, is actually a cutback, and you have to cut it very well when a budget gets lower. – Therefore: Rejoicing that there is now a little more money for this area is certainly not a criterion for a quality and meaningful educational budget! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I have once again looked at the budget figures of the Minister of Finance: In any case, the development of “gross domestic product” on the one hand and the development of the “Education and Culture” budget on the other is interesting. According to the Minister of Finance's forecast of gross domestic product – clearly, since there is none in 2005 – there is an increase of just over 15 percent in gross domestic product from 2000 to 2005. The increase in the budget for education and culture is 7.5 percent at this time, less than half of the increase in gross domestic product. Now you always say about ÖVP and the liberals that you can't compare, because that's about total government expenditure. I'm just telling you: If you look at ‘education at a glance’, the OECD values, then you see, it is naturally compared how high educational expenditure is in relation to gross domestic product. You will see that Austria was already there with the figures of 2001, because we are not so close to the reality or the present, the third lowest rate of increase in education throughout the OECD. The years 2002 to 2005. It is relatively easy to predict that Austria will fall back to the end of the rate of increase in education. Why there is much to rejoice that the Minister for Education has presented a superbudget, I would like to ask you, Mr Amon. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Let us take a closer look at the budget itself. The big chunks, about which there have been many discussions, were the teachers of the country. They have presented a budget containing € 57 million less for national teachers. Mr Amon said that 18,000 students were less. It was an interesting discussion in the Committee on Budgets, because the Minister for Education meant that her calculations were less than 12 000 students. However, the Minister of Finance has budgeted 18 000 pupils less. The 6,000 have just lost somewhere on the way. There are no teachers, or the budget is exceeded. – So much for the fairness of budgetary policy. Then there was the great jubilation about the financial compensation: 12 million € in addition. You have to look at this: First you shorten from one year to another by 57 million, then you go here and say, well, but 12 million – great cheer – we have provided. Those who can actually count together will find the following result: 57 million cuts, 12 million re-budgets, make only more than 45 million cuts in compulsory school teachers – after your calculation next year, about 1,500 teachers still budgeted less in compulsory school. I would also like to ask you what there is to rejoice in view of the development we have had in recent years. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Once the call “PISA!” has fallen. I am very excited, we will be sitting in three weeks' time at the next plenary session, since the PISA study will already be published. I dare to understand the prognosis, which I think everyone who has a bit to do with it now can also relatively easily. The Minister for Education is already building up in the Committee on Budgets by saying, well, the method may not be quite as serious. Last time the method was really great, because there we were tenth and thus world class. Now the question arises whether you have recorded enough professional students or whether the billing is actually serious. Every opinion poll – and in this case PISA is a representative survey – is based on the fact that one does not make a full survey of all students, but always has to count up. The last time, however, they made the slight mistake that they had too little weight on professional students. After that, all the experts said that. As a result, the result was better. In three weeks we will sit there, we will discuss it, and you will have to explain why Austria has cut off much worse in the 2003 PISA study, published in 2004, than in the last. And this debate is not because it's a positive signal – it's anything but that – but because there's finally the chance that you might stop with these flat arguments. In this respect, it is important that there is an incentive here to discuss the Austrian education system very thoroughly and probably thoroughly in a very short time. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Let us come to an area that is particularly threatened in its existence, for years now. It is about the field of non-confessional schools free of charge – alternative schools, Waldorf schools, Montessori schools. There are a lot of things in Austria in recent years – thank God! – has grown stronger. Some 4,000 students attend schools in Austria, which are located in this category. They have been financially starved by the ÖVP for years in particular – you really have to say so. There was never a good budget for these schools. At the beginning of 2000/2001 there was still funding in the area of alternative schools of € 350 000 in the budget. We now have a budget of €78 000. There was almost nothing before. Now there's almost nothing left. I find this very remarkable in itself. There is a school structure that is trying to live up to all the resistance there is to innovative projects that also have a lot of influence – that will be confirmed by all educational experts – on the regular school system. Montessori classes are now also available in the regular school system. There are teachers who have been trained accordingly. Nevertheless, you try everything to make life difficult for them. I always hear: More private – less state. But you should say: Where it fits us. That is still missing in this part. Because where it doesn't fit us, that doesn't apply. There, own initiative, educational innovation is punished and not promoted. We think this is anything but praiseworthy, Mr Amon. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Hakl: So private schools!]] The Greens want an innovative and thriving school system. That's what we really want. There should also be opportunities for this by means of state support. [[Abg. May. Hakl: The Greens want more private schools!]] You seem to want to be private – I said it before – where it suits you. And there is a problem with institutions in general where it is about something like criticism, where the mood of the ÖVP is dampened – to which we will still speak in detail today. I assume that this is also a problem in the area of alternative schools and the reason why the funding is so sad. We are still coming to a point I would like to address, namely the signatory interpretation during today's debate. It should not be forgotten, however, that in Austria we have a situation where deaf people still do not have the right to teach where deaf people are still not allowed to be taught by the deaf, although in the meantime probably also here in the house the realization that the sign language is a language of their own. It is quite different here than in many other countries. I just call Sweden the model country where there are training courses of over 500 hours. In Austria we have a course that covers 40 hours. If you look at this, you can imagine that in 40 hours you will probably understand relatively little of sign language. [[the speaker points towards the sign translator]] It is absolutely impossible for me to understand why a part of the population is still simply deprived of its language. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I come to the conclusion: The question of how to deal with critical institutions will concern us even longer today, on the one hand the working chamber discussion, on the other hand the ÖH discussion. My colleague, Mr Greenewald, will then take an intense interest in the fact that this is obviously a matter. It was quite amusing by Mr Amon to point out that the ÖVP has had the majority with this system for decades and that it takes exactly 18 months for the first time in which it loses its position as the strongest group to submit a draft law, where the majority are to be guaranteed at once. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Shame!]] [[Call the SPÖ: Unheard!]] That is really quite a point of view for democracy. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] At the workers' chamber, I can only say what you hear from ÖVP travels like that. There a leading member of the government of the ÖVP should have said in a club meeting that it is not allowed to be done by government-critical institutions such as the Chamber of Labour... – President Khol, I will not finish the sentence because, I believe, it does not correspond to the dignity of the house. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Were you there?]] I just want to say you've taken it far with your government style. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e3241	Mr Brosz's request, tabled by Mr Brosz, Mr Ddr. Deweisers, colleagues and colleagues concerning EUR 5 million each year as an emergency measure to ensure the existence of non-confessional schools in free circulation is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e3293	The next speaker is Mrs Rossmann. 10 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e3312	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Brosz, this is the difference between your education policy and ours: They use vehement for private schools and want children to go more and more in private schools. I understand, there are alternative schools where the principle of performance is simply not a priority. [[Abg. Oils: Oh, that hurts! Mr. Khol, did you listen?]] We are committed to ensuring that public education remains accessible to all, that quality is best possible and equal opportunities is guaranteed. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, in a budget as a whole, it is quite often said that there is a number of cast policies. Even if the opposition is different, the figures are crushed and proposals are put on the table, which are old hats, I can say that we can certainly talk about a budget that includes a quality offensive and that meets the quality in the future. [[Abg. Oillinger: The children of Mr President were also in the Waldorf School! Goddamn it?]] In terms of the quality of teaching on the one hand and further professionalization of the teaching profession and the management of the school, on the other hand, emphasis is placed on this budget. In this way, we can also point to a successful process of the future and discuss a budget that continues the quality offensive that has begun. A major step has already been taken with the education standards. The education standards were also an essential part of the Government Convention, and we insisted that these be implemented as quickly as possible. We are now in the trial phase with mathematics, and I say quite clearly that teachers welcome these education standards very much, because at last feedback is possible. However, it is a pleasure to say that the deficit of the city of Vienna will once again become visible, precisely where there is a discrepancy: for example, education standards of the main schools versus the education standards of the primary schools in the city of Vienna, as well as the individual AHS classes among themselves in the city of Vienna. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: It's horrible what you're saying!]] We know that there are already districts and AHS where more than 50 percent of students now go to the AHS, while the primary schools suffer from student injury. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: It's the same in Graz!]] That's the same in Graz, but it's outrageous in Vienna. If someone says I don't want to send my child to AHS and not to primary school, then the question arises: Yes, then, what remains? – Only private schools remain. And that's what you call equal opportunities? First of all, the city of Vienna is required. We are very glad that these education standards will make these shortcomings transparent. I am aware that you do not welcome this, precisely for that reason. I am telling you the solution to all these problems. The problems are also homemade. The solutions to all these problems are, of course, first of all the learning of the language of teaching. The model of language early promotion, my colleague, Niederwieser, is not matured in your project, in your punctuations, in your educational programme, because if your party president Gusenbauer says that early child promotion begins with a compulsory kindergarten visit, then I think that is the wrong way. We say that early promotion is starting very well at five years, with the testing of the teaching language, of course child-friendly, then with a promotion instruction. This can take place in the kindergarten, but also in the preschool. In the event of schooling, a re-examination of the mastery of the language should be carried out. If the child is able to follow the class, there is nothing against a school entrance and the child can attend the first class. If the child cannot follow the instruction due to language defects, then targeted support in a preschool is necessary. – This is our approach to the 2010 education plan, and this distinguishes us from you that we are not talking about a compulsory visit, while you are even talking about a compulsory visit to the kindergarten. But I also say that it is necessary to develop specific curriculum and funding methods. We liberals are truly convinced that a satisfactory integration process is only possible if we manage to impart the knowledge of the language in early childhood, the knowledge of German language, the knowledge of the language of teaching. This is the basis for enabling a truly satisfactory integration in the future. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] These are failures, I also tell you, decades of failure, including social democracy. I told you in committee – good morning, Mr Niederweiser! – when you called for this language early promotion to take place more and more now, pointing to the large non-German-speaking share of students in the schools in Vienna. We have already pointed out in our popular desire “Austria first”, led by our clubman Herbert Scheibner, that no more than one third of the students should be per class of non-German native language. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] They are now awakening, in 2004, we pointed this out ten years ago. At that time you also criticized us with words that were under the belt line. Many directors are now on their way to becoming school managers. I also welcome Mrs Bundesminister's initiative with this Leadership Academy, which has also been developed at the request of the Directors and whose aim is to ensure that the Directors achieve more management qualities and professionalism. From our point of view, one might well think a step further: Does it always have to be the best educators who will become directors and school principals? Could there not also be a separation of pedagogy and school management, where the school manager can also have commercial qualities? This is also to be considered and developed in the 2010 education plan. Unfortunately, I see nothing in the SPÖ education concept. There is nothing to be found when it comes to new approaches to teaching. I am delighted, Mrs Minister, personally that you are also giving more space to adult education and there is a budget increase of more than 28 percent in the whole area of adult education. I say lifelong learning must not only be a keyword, but it is a command of the hour. The entire labour market depends on lifelong learning, i.e. on the ability of employees to continue training. But lifelong learning must not only take place in the private sector, but also in the public service and, above all, in the area of teacher training. Unfortunately, I often hear criticism about the fact that education and training takes place exclusively or mainly during schooling, and not during teaching time. The students do not understand this, neither do the parents nor the taxpayers understand it. Above all, it is not understood that the supply lessons are not real lessons, but that this is simply a sitting down. I know the supply lessons should be real lessons, but in practice this is rare. We are very pleased that the Novelle School Education Act is now under review, in which a first early warning system is already provided in the first semester and the Schnupper teaching is finally enshrined in law, namely in the fourth class primary school or in the fourth class of the AHS, which, I think, is very important for professional orientation. You get a better insight, a better decision-making aid going to whether you want to start a teaching or continue to visit an AHS or BHS. Over the past few years, we have seen more than 10,000 career-leaving graduates – and this is also very pleasing – on the path of dual training and career-leaving. In other words, more than 10,000 young people have chosen the path of dual training and completed their training with the professional maturity test. Of course, a course will follow a course, but vice versa can also be thought of a lesson in the future after depositing an AHS-Matura. In this respect, there is already an excellent initiative of the Industrial Association in Carinthia. The number of academics has more than doubled over the last ten years, and we are talking about a record of students this year, despite or precisely because of the tuition fees, since now the study is in the foreground and not just the inscription alone. In conclusion, however, I would like to say that with this educational budget there is again a €69 million increase, which corresponds to 1 billion schilling. In addition, there is €12 million in the financial compensation for compulsory schools for the maintenance of micro-schools and special educational funding needs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Niederweiser]] Mr Niederwieser, you must take note of this! More €12 million in financial compensation, this is a piece of money to be able to receive these structures in rural areas. Even if you don't want to hear: 167 additional posts will be available for the afternoon care. You know, a teacher's office includes twice as much in posts for education supervision in the afternoon service. That means we have a large call rate for afternoon care, and we will be able to meet the needs with it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] However, it is also gratifying that € 27 million for sport and gymnastics can be found in the budget. And last but not least: The alternative schools and the Waldorf schools – even if it does not want to hear colleague Brosz – have a plus of more than 7 percent. Please note! Please note! Where else is there a plus in the private sector? It is the will of this Federal Government to promote private schools, but not to promote them so far that they are in great competition with public schools. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen:... because these schools are not performance-friendly!]] Even if you don't want to hear: With this educational budget, Austria will continue to be in the forefront, in front of Germany and in front of Finland so much praised by you. Take note of this: We have a very good budget, which will continue to ensure the quality of the education system and will continue to ensure the quality of education.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e3442	Mrs Gehrer has now spoken. 20 minutes, Minister of State. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e3461	Mr President. High house! First of all, I would like to make a clarification. Mr Brosz said that the Minister of Finance expected 18 000 students less and I would have said that I think it was 12 000. I said in committee that the countries reported 18 000. But I don't think that's true.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e3482	Please stop the rally at the gallery! [[New call from the gallery.]] I'm interrupting the meeting.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e3521	I will start the meeting again and ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to continue.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e3543	I note, therefore, that 18 000 students have been reported less by the countries and that this has not been calculated at random by the Minister of Finance. Ladies and gentlemen! I would now like to address the school area in my first speech.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e3581	The sitting is closed, I have announced, and Mrs. Minister is on the floor!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e3600	I would like to go into the field of education in my first speech, and I ask: What is a good educational offer in a country? A good supply of education in a country is recognised by the fact that there is low youth unemployment and that young people have good opportunities. And look at the supplements of the newspapers! [[Abg. Broukal: “Kurier” of today, page 2!]] Especially today, in the “Salzburger Nachrichten” there was a supplement about all the educational opportunities available in Austria, which are supported: additional educational opportunities in the field of apprentices, additional educational opportunities in the field of inclusive teaching, for the weaker, additional educational opportunities for the particularly talented by our gift promotion institution, additional educational opportunities in the field of federal schools, additional educational opportunities in the field of adult education, further training. Then: What, then, is the professional maturity test different from an additional education programme in the field of adult education, in the field of life-long learning? A large, broad educational offensive has thus been launched, which offers additional offers at all levels, from apprentices to universities, to colleges, to gift promotion, to promotion for those who are particularly difficult. This is recognised both domestically and abroad. If you look at the budget, you have to say: This is the continuous continuation of the good basis for education: in the personnel sector, in the construction sector, at work. In the personnel sector, the Federal Schools, since I am a minister, also receive the additional posts for the students who come more to the Federal Schools. There was no such thing as that before. We have launched a school building offensive, which can be seen, a school building offensive, in which two or three schools are re-opened almost every month. A week ago I reopened the Sir-Karl-popper school at the Wiedner Gürtel, and this evening the gymnasium in Wiener Neustadt will be re-opened. There are huge resources available everywhere. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] And: 7 420 training places have been newly created. I would also like to thank all the municipalities and all the school holders in the countries that provide the school buildings with the best conditions. All schools in Austria are on the Internet, we have made investments in the new technologies of €35 million since 2000. Austria is therefore at the top of the European Union! We have over 100 posts this year in the budget for day care, we also have more than 300 posts for the student, we also have 450 posts for compulsory schools. [[Abg. Brosz: That's not true! You can't discuss the cuts away!]] In financial compensation, the framework conditions for personnel allocation to compulsory schools have been strengthened, and €12 million is coming especially for small school locations, €12 million for special measures in the agglomerations annually – annually! – for the countries to do so. This is a very nice success. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] As this discussion is constantly being discussed, ladies and gentlemen: The OECD numbers explain how a country lies in relation numbers, for example, students – teachers. Look It's what you're looking at. – In Austria we have a teacher for 14.5 people’s students. In the OECD section it is 16.9, in much praised Finland 15.8. [[Abg. Oils: apples and pears!]] The conditions in Austria are good. When we look at primary and secondary education: Here in Austria we have a teacher for ten primary students, in the OECD there are in the secondary range of the 10- to 14-year-olds 14,4, who come to a teacher. So: We have framework conditions, we have a budget that has experienced an increase – the salary increases are not yet included – we have good, solid framework conditions where teachers can work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In my opinion, however, what is the most important thing in the field of education is positive motivation given by the side of Parliament, which is communicated by the parties responsible to the teachers. In Germany there has been a discussion for decades that has been very harmful, and the German Minister for Culture has recently noted: It was one of the biggest mistakes of this society that teachers do not appreciate and respect enough. And this is what we need, ladies and gentlemen: Trust in our good teachers that they will secure the best school offer in Austria for the youth with the solid conditions.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e3690	The next speaker is Mr Broukal. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e3708	Good morning, Mr President. Good morning, Mrs. Federal Minister! You all have a good morning too! I have a bronchitis and will therefore only be able to speak very quietly today, but I hope you will honor it. [[Call the ÖVP: Shame!]] It'll go out. “ He that will hear, let him hear, ” says the Bible. That the universities have little reason for joy next year, you have read the same as I have in the newspapers. The ÖVP and the Minister of Education simply continue the course. It has to be shortened, deleted and saved until the universities can no longer continue or until they – and for this we have alarming signs – only see a way to introduce study restrictions in order to meet the financial need. Even benevolent and the Federal Minister, I believe, well-minded rectors, like Peter Skalicky of TU Vienna, can no longer contribute to this hunger course. Skalicky told the Austrian press agency last week: We can “not profile as quickly as we need to save. ” We have asked the university rectors to tell us how much more money they would need to get over the rounds this year, and I am happy to read the answers to you. Christoph Badelt, Wirtschaftsuni Wien: “With regard to the gaps that have arisen in recent years, I estimate the short-term need of the Vienna University of Economics to an order of 10 million euros per year.” Peter Skalicky, TU Vienna: “We are missing 10 million euros in order to be able to rehabilitate even the most pressing problems.” Stephan Schmidt-Wulffen, Academy of Fine Arts: “As the first figures for this year show, the Academy for the Just Continuement of the Status quo lacks around 1 million euros.” Vice-Chair Erich Möstler, University of Veterinary Medicine Vienna: “The availability framework of the rectorate of the VUW” was “reduced around 3.5 million euros...” Heinrich Schmidinger, University of Salzburg: “The University of Salzburg needs more than EUR 4.8 million in 2005.” Wolfgang Wegscheider, Leoben University of Applied Sciences: ‘The missing amount’ for 2005 and 2006 is ‘€6.4 million’. Vice President Ralph Zettl, Karl-French University of Graz: “Fehl amount (total):” – for the next three years – “€11.5 million/year.” University Council Chairman Max Kothbauer, University of Vienna: “The University of Vienna itself needed 10 million euros in the short term in addition to equipment and other investments.” In view of these reports by the rectors, any polemics can be saved; these figures speak for themselves. But you have decided to ignore all of this and continue your saving course on devils. The rector of the University of Soil Culture, Professor Dürrstein, told the Federal Minister last week on the occasion of a celebration at the Boku himself in the face: The universities don't need the promised 25 million next year – brackets: they won't exist anyway; Close – they need 100 million now and then 25 million each year for purchases of equipment and other things! It is therefore an honour for me to be able to put in this place once again the request already known to you, which reads: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I would also like to talk a little bit about the topic that the Austrian public has been particularly concerned about in recent days: the high-school education law, as I call it, which you put on the table last week, without any preliminary discussion, in contrast to the false, factually incorrect issues and information given by the Ministry of Higher Education – against fidelity and faith and, above all, from a single transparent motive: They want to make the critical voice of the federal high schooling mouth dead, and that a few months before the next ÖH election. I say: bad style, reckless use of a majority, lack of respect for democracy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But how do I get to this conclusion? – A simple search on the Internet homepage of the Ring of Free Students suggests – I quote –: “Otherwise, the RFS was included in the innovation,” – not the high school, the RSF very well! – “What also explains the redistribution of federal financial resources at university level” – Attention! – “as well as the Quasi defeat of the Federal Republic of Germany”. This is the internal jargon in the government parties for what they do, and in public they say: My name is Hase. What do I know about the next choice and how it will go?- Oh, my God! – Thank you, Christoph Völk, the chairman of the liberal students, for this brutal openness that everyone can read on the Internet! But we already tell the students today – and I suppose that includes the Greens –: We are reintroducing the direct election of the Bundes-ÖH again because we are interested in a strong counterpart in university policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e3772	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Broukal, colleagues and colleagues on an immediate programme of €100 million for the Austrian universities is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e3833	Mr Brosz spoke in favour of an actual correction. 2 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e3855	Mr President. Ms Gehrer, Minister for Education, claimed that the budget included an increase of 450 posts in compulsory school teachers. This finding is incorrect. Rather, it is true that the reduction of €57 million in approximately a range of 1,500 to 2,000 compulsory school teachers is no longer budgeted. If you budget 450 additional now, the reduction will be reduced, but it is much less than in the previous year.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e3888	Mrs Brinek. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Speech time: 8 minutes. – You are speaking, Mrs Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e3906	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The university budget, the science budget and the current discussion are being debated. Mr Broukal was not there last week because he was sick, and I think we could discuss at the current hour and agree that it is part of the university discourse not to exaggerate, not to talk about permanent ill-treatment, not about cuts, chaos, mouth-death and death, because that is not the debate and not the subject appropriate. Today, he comes back here and repeats what some students, in a grossly simplified form, want to say again and again in connection with the revision of the High School Law. Mr Broukal, I think it is deeply worrying if you are talking about moral and undemocratic procedures in connection with the introduction of an initiative — the most legitimate and authentic means of Members. I don't want to come with the cute offer: I am happy to give you a private body together with Professor Zögernitz, who has published for this purpose!, but you mock Parliament, you are drawing a false light on the work we are doing here when you speak in connection with an own-initiative proposal of ‘disrepute’, Mr President! That can't be the case, and that can't be your serious either. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] What is the position of this HSG-Novelle, Mr colleague, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition? – Don’t pretend to be You have now been surprised by this request! If you had read the university law in 2002, you would know – or I suggest you read – that: There is a reference to the need to regulate the strengthening of university locations in the High School Law. - That's what we're doing. And there were conversations, once more intense, once less intense, to strengthen these university sites. This is also a comment if the high school groups do not find enough good now: Explain the students and the students' representatives on the ground not to fool, unqualified hashers, who do not support a stronger democratic legitimacy! In future, they will be those who know what concerns students have, what solutions are appropriate and how strong and why university locations and representations should be strengthened there. [[Abg. Krainer: Cheap Propaganda!]] A strong rector team, a strong line triangle between rectors, university council and Senate, and this must face a strong student representation. [[Complementary by representatives of the ÖVP]] And I am very grateful to the Conference of Presidents, for it has essentially transmitted these points to all the political groups in discussions in summer or presented them in a written form, as I have heard. This draft contains the points that we are now taking into account. It contains, for example, a greater redistribution of resources. Strengthening means strengthening democratic legitimacy and redistributing the resources so that where the tasks take place, the funds are also available. And the funds should be allocated even more in favour of the local student representation, as proposed by the Presidency Conference. Our proposal, our own initiative, which we have tabled together with Mr Achleitner, contains a major redistribution. The student representation at the federal level should continue to exist. Please don't pretend we're going to abolish them! Speak more differentiatedly, speak more appropriately! This, of course, is particularly true in connection with the university, but actually in connection with any political matter. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! With this innovation, which we can still discuss enough, we also strengthen the small groups at the universities. As a result of the further differentiation of universities compared to a state about after the Second World War, the problems have become different. The problems at the Technical University, Mr. Broukal, which you always like to address, are different from those at the Kunstuniversität, for example, in Graz. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: We know that!]] Thank you! Then take this into account! Then you will know that these can no longer be represented by a student representative from a homogeneous university landscape. That is the point, ladies and gentlemen. More to the budget: We have never said – neither the Minister of Foreign Affairs nor colleagues here – that it would be an elaborate budget, that it would be one where one could, as it were, draw from the full and implement other ideas and further expansions without regard to the corresponding figures. It is a budget that can be mastered, as the head of the rector's conference has said, with which one can live well. Everyone wants to have a budget that allows even stronger facilities and so on, but only with the opening balances did the universities themselves give information about themselves: their equipment, their needs and their needs. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition: We will – and I am very happy about this – get the research infrastructure improvements! Be sure of that! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Broukal.]] This is also a logical matter because research-led teaching benefits from a good research infrastructure equipment, and that is why this is a research investment. [[Abg. Broukal: This is not true what you say!]] [[Abg. Broukal: This is not true what you say!]] The universities will have these resources at their disposal and will thus be able to improve their teaching and research and thus the quality of the study offer. Therefore, we will not have to accede to the motion for a resolution, because there are differentiated solutions here – they are promised, Mrs Federal Minister. I'm confident that's gonna happen. A small comment on the resolution tabled by Mr Niederweisser. I also have to say, ladies and gentlemen: The effort in matters has increased by almost 6 percent, the trend towards higher schools continues – 3 200 students more. These are 300 service posts when you put the value units around. It's basically what you're addressing. The following comment: Sunday newspaper; a school story that complains that there are many students in the school classes. – In the photo I saw counted 24. The average number of students is much better than this one is complained about. And on top of that: In the middle of history, a praiseful, recognized report by the OECD expert, who said: Wonderful! Different school system! Keep up! Funding excellent! Please keep going! I can only say: “Continue!” is a good motivation! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e4018	The next speaker is Mr Grünewald. Desirable time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e4036	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Estimated students! It's right, Mrs. Brinek: I'm not surprised. But why? – Because nothing more surprises me in this debate. It is also annoying that this continuation of the eternal pro and contra, of praise and criticism, in budget speeches, will actually bring to a halt the much appreciated movement promoted by the Federal Government. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Then don't participate!]] They keep talking about doing the truth enough. I think to look at everything through the pink glasses, that's sad with the eye; and to hear the same arguments over and over again let listeners sleep with or without hearing aids. I can't! I really want to tell you: Move one time only to the heights and depths of the universities, and you will find that deficit and lack are more often seen than you describe it, and abundance and luxury are a rather rare event! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Who spoke of “Luxus”? - Stay with the truth!]] If you're talking about this budget and connecting it to "world class", some of you have to feel like a pure luxury talk – and luxury speeches are also superfluous. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] I believe that in science, Mrs. Federal Minister, you cannot say no – the honesty of the arguments, the consistency of statements with reality must mean anything – and not just incense, self-recognition and this dismayed look, where visional aids will not be executed. I understand our astronomers and astrophysics that they need a telescope, an observatory to see some things more clearly than you make it possible for them because you don't pay the contribution. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Nor is it, Mrs Brinek, every day that Parliament meets, the 1. April! You can't stop thinking about the untruth and exaggeration of the truth and the exaggeration of the rectors, universities, the affected, students and scientists. [[New call of the abg. Dr. Brinek.]] – Of course, you say it: Everything is “wrongly spoken. ” [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Yes, from your colleagues!]] The universities are relatively good for what they have! But read in the paper what the rector conference says: Austria is average. – Unfortunately! But you also know that the great research universities of the USA, whose names we hear again and again – and that is so absurd: Klagenfurt, Stanford, Leoben, ETH Zurich – for example Stanford and Harvard, have a budget that is as high as that available to universities throughout the Gehrer department. Tell me about that at last! [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: But not from the state, please! Tell me about that!]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Let's not compare apples with pears!]] I think if you tell the fairy tale “The emperor’s new clothes” would be transferred to some budget debates, one would feel set on FKK beaches, so much so the appearance determines the reality and your being! I'll tell you. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Another thing: Mrs Bundesminister Gehrer, a written request from me in the Budget Committee was honestly answered by your officials. I hope these won't find the way to the early board as quickly as some other excellent people in your resort, because you won't like this answer. After all, I asked: Why is the ongoing announcements to promote science in Austria not reflected in the budget, which, after a reduction in the overall budget for 2002 by €139 million in 2003 and an insignificant increase in 2004 now has a further reduction in the appropriations by €40 million in 2005? – I notice: 2005 by € 40 million less! What is the response of the civil service and, of course, of Mrs Minister? – Your answer is: The above reductions therefore do not mean that less money is available, but only that there are lower payment obligations in the areas mentioned. - Quote. To servus! Hoppala! Great! What's going on? – Mrs Federal Minister, you admit: It's less. – And I always hear from colleague Brinek the opposite. Where do there are fewer payment obligations? In building renovations? Have you rehabilitated everything? Is everything built? - No! These commitments are the best, and the €100 million that the rectors' conference is talking about are the right ones. We took it over. We checked it. If you only achieve increases by choosing the worst budget years of the university as a reference point, I tell you: That's not art! But then I'll tell you: Take the time of the Turkish wars, then the increase you have made here is enormous! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens as well as with representatives of the SPÖ.]] But it can't be. If this is the case and people are fooled, then in Parliament is really daily 1. April! What is not research-effective in the budgets is the additional cost of dispensing medicine. I tell you – ask the people! –: This is more expensive due to duplications and other sand in the wheels of the gearboxes. Private employees come more expensive, as well as rental costs. The BIG alone has a loan of 35 billion Schilling – in the currency at that time – with some of which universities have to repay through rents. This means that there are no research-effective increases in itself, and the current budget is in the order of the year 1999. I think the ÖH and the studentship deserve more than the two, three minutes that remain for me now. I will therefore say the essentials in the afternoon. But: In the “time in Figure 3” the ORF has presented an excellent, yes, intelligible – which can and actually occurs at the ORF – column diagram in which the results of the ÖH elections in the past are counted to the next year’s elections according to the new law. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Rare, but still!]] And see: There are some small seedlings and some larger ones. Now guess which pillars are getting higher! - Your political groups! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: It counts the result, Mr. Colleague!]] And if you say – that was really great what Amon said at first – that only takes into account the new university structure, then I can say something to you: There you can make municipal elections, and the municipalities then send the parliamentarians to Parliament – what do you say about this? –, according to the motto: [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Workers' Chamber Elections!]] We are a state, what do we still have Parliament for? – So maybe you should draw column diagrams that show how it went without parliament or on the basis of municipal council elections! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Sburny: Don't give them any good tips! They're doing this, Kurt! Watch out!]] Or: They make business council elections and say: What else do I need a union when I make business council elections? [[Abg. Oils: No tips!]] What else do I need a working room for when I make works council elections? – Look, this argument is literally going into the pants! [[Abg. Oils: They're doing this, Kurt! Watch out!]] Finally, what I want to say – I will continue in the afternoon –: Mrs. Federal Minister Gehrer, a few weeks ago I really had a passable conversation with you. At the time, you said you were going to create this high school law in consensus with the representatives of high school students and seek consensus with the opposition. [[Abg. Oils: Servus! You can see that!]] - I believed you. Mrs Brinek, do not tell me that this initiative has been written by you and Mrs Achleitner, because that would be a gross untruth. This initiative has been written by officials of the department and has nothing to do with the dignity of Parliament, what you are now quoting. That's a very, very gross deception! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] They withdraw this law from a serious assessment by the persons concerned. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: You distance yourself from...!]] – I do not distance myself from Parliament, but I distance myself from the fact that there is no rest in Parliament 1. April is being played! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e4291	The next speaker is Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. 6 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e4309	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pilz.]] Mr Broukal! Mr Greenewald! I think you have to take note that the new university law of the federal government no longer provides the centre of competence – neither for universities nor for colleges. [[Abg. Broukal: Is this now no longer a federal competence, the universities?]] And: It cannot be the talk of God that the Austrian high school is abolished, made mouth dead or crushed – as you give of yourself all the time. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Broukal: Are the universities no longer federal competence?]] The modernisation of the ÖH law reflects the structure of the university law, whereby the universities that are autonomous have competence and the decisions for students and universities will be taken there. [[Abg. Sburny: For the Federal ÖH!]] That is exactly where strong university representatives have to be, and that is what we are talking about! This is contained in this high school law, and the high school law has more transparency, has more democracy, because even smaller groups now have the opportunity to get into the Federal Office through service associations. That is why we support this high school law. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Greenewald! I think you can't talk about a pink glasses when Professor Felder, the head of the Institute of Higher Studies, says that the universities are very good in international comparison, because Austria's spending 1.2 percent of GDP on the tertiary sector is the same as Switzerland, Austria is better than Germany, better than France and better than England. [[Call to the SPÖ and the Greens: “Dalen”?! ‘Daling’?- Oh, my God!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ and the Greens]] And that can be seen very well! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Krainer: The universities “lie well there”!]] Of course, it is not easy for universities at the moment; the construction of the new structures is a major challenge. The universities have wished for this autonomy, and therefore they have a higher degree of personal responsibility now. I think, Mr Broukal, that heating up and polemizing does not help the universities at all. The universities need support and motivation – also from our politicians! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The science budget in 2005 amounts to over €3 billion, namely about €3.1 billion, with the universities being made available over €2 billion, and in addition – which has already been addressed today – they receive €25 million for research infrastructure. With these budgets, the universities can work. Of course, there is always the call for more money, but for the quality of the universities, not only the financial resources will be crucial, but the efficiency of the use of these funds. Many institutions have already proved that a smooth operation is possible and the professors are very likely to work to ensure that teaching and research are carried out efficiently, only: Especially these institutions – which represent the majority – are simply erased by you from the table and basically not mentioned at all. It is also not pomped – and it was addressed a few times last week – that companies are being used to support universities. I can only tell you from my own experience as a university assistant at TU that it was of great benefit a few years ago when measuring instruments, state-of-the-art measuring instruments for research and also for exercises were provided by the companies every year, so that students really had the best possible measuring instruments available according to the state of the art. It is certainly the task of the professors, the task of the assistants to take care of the best possible teaching material or research material, to agree with and thus have at their disposal. It is still important to mention one point: There is also a great deal of provision for women's promotion in this budget. Between 2002 and 2006 more than €17 million is available for women's policies: Doctoral programmes, international scholarship programmes, but also facilities for childcare and qualification programmes, so that young researchers can be better promoted in the future. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The science budget is a good basis and offers absolutely no reason to panic, as it is constantly operated by you. Let the universities work in the future, and please note that the times of centralism are over at the Austrian universities!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e4438	Mrs Gehrer spoke the other day. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e4456	Mr President. High house! First of all, a few comments on the university budget. – Mr Grünewald has quoted a question to answer a written question on the committee, and I would like to make that clear. It is about the difficult-to-understand issue of the extension of the balance sheet. The universities have federal staff. For these federal staff, they receive funds in the budget. These federal officials must, however, be paid by the federal government. Therefore, the funds are transferred from the universities to the revenue side of the federal government and then spent on the expenditure side of the federal government. These federal officials become fewer each year and are replaced by employees – contract staff system. In 2005, 80 million € were lost in these expenditures for federal staff. They therefore no longer need to be transferred from the university budget to the federal revenue and then to the expenditure page. So this is €80 million, which is no longer due to payment obligations from the Federal Government. However, it is not 80 million fewer in the budget, but 40 million – as you have noted – because we have received € 40 million for the colleges. So the budget has de facto been increased. – I am sorry, this is a balance sheet technical measure that is very difficult to explain, and it is really true when you say that payment commitments have become less on the federal side. The second thing I would like to note: The universities have a law-secured budget with dynamic additions. They receive the salary increases – they are not in the budget at all because we do not yet know them – and they also receive the necessary additional expenditure from the contract service system, annual funds for implementation as well as funds due to rent increases. In negotiations with the Federal Property Society, I also achieved that the rents will not be increased next year. This is a great step forward because it makes universities much easier to do. This total budget of the universities, which is over €2 billion, is now being negotiated with the universities and is divided into the individual universities by negotiation. However, universities receive €50 million for research infrastructure, which is also very important for teaching, as we no longer follow the old casting pot system, which has just been decided by the Council for Research and Technology Development on this morning. I thank you very much and am happy to be 50 million € more by the beginning of 2006 for the research infrastructure, the re-purchasing at the universities! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] There has been €18 million this year, making up a total of €68 million. I don't understand why that's nothing! With the euro you must somehow have lost the feeling of the money, because these € 68 million are 935 million schilling. By the beginning of 2006, there is a lot of money that is very much invested in the renewal of the infrastructure, in the post-purchasing and in a new infrastructure. Ladies and gentlemen! Now to the High School Law. Everyone knew that we had to adapt the high school law to the conditions of the new university law 2002. We have held long discussions. I invited you, Mr Greenewald, to a discussion. I really don't like it when a part of such a conversation is cited. I told you at the time, there are three ways: There is the possibility that we will only make a sad adjustment, so only the need for high schooling to respond to the new structures. There is the possibility that we will change a little bit in favor of the high school representatives on the spot. And there is the possibility that we will also refocus on financial matters. We held intensive discussions with the chairmen of the individual university representatives, who then gave us a resolution in a meeting, on 17 November. June 2004, which called for local university representations to be given greater importance and also for the distribution of financial resources in such a way that local university representations can improve their position as real partners of rectors and university management. The current high school law now provides for 21 university representatives to be elected freely and democratically. Whoever will be elected in May, no one knows who is now making calculations at all. Those will be elected locally by the university representatives who are committed to the young people who speak a strong word and who also strongly represent the interests of the students vis-à-vis the university representation. I think it's really the right way for university representatives on the ground to have the expertise and the weight that they really solve the challenges at the universities. How can a German president from Salzburg know the conditions in Graz so well that he creates solutions there? [[Abg. Sburny: I always wonder about federal politics!]] That is why we have the local university representatives, 21 are elected directly, democratically and freely. No one's gonna be mouth-dead at all. It can tell everyone his opinion. Out of these freely elected university representatives, there are delegates who secretly elect their chairmen and their alternates. This is an extremely democratic process in itself. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: This is the Soviet system! The classical Soviet system!]] Ladies and gentlemen! There were also discussions about the ÖH duty membership. I have vehemently worked to ensure that this duty membership remains at the universities. [[Abg. Broukal: Who wants to do this with you? The ÖVP or the FPÖ?]] This is the compulsory membership that requires every student to pay € 14.8 per student to the high school. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: “Genossin Gehrer”!]] This means that the high school has a budget of €6.26 million annually. So far, the Federal Office has received 30 percent of the budget and the university representatives 70 percent. By 2007, a slow transition is expected to take place to 85 percent of the university's representatives and 15 percent to the Federal Office. I think that's the right thing to do, so that's how university representatives are strengthened on the ground. These are 21 directly democratically elected university representatives representing on-site students who are the partners of the rectors and the partners of the university management. This is a high school chosen from a wide forum at the federal level, which is the government's partner. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. May. Darabos: Do you want to abolish Parliament too?]] [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Bravo, “Genossin Gehrer”!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think every calculation, now to say, that will look wrong in May or June at the universities in relation to them. The young students choose their own university representation. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: That has been the case so far!]] No calculations can now be made. We will see which groups really work for the students.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e4593	Mr Broukal spoke in favour of an actual correction. First the text point to be corrected and then the corrected one! - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e4614	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Achleitner has here informed you that the universities would receive 1.2% of the national income. – That’s wrong! The right thing is that universities get 1.0 2 percent of national income. In 1999, they had 1.2 percent under the Ministry of Caspar One. The higher teaching, mistakenly mentioned by Mrs Achleitner, corresponds to 15 percent more than the universities actually have. The universities have lost 15 percent of their budget over the past five years, as measured by GDP, what you and the ÖVP are responsible for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e4653	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e4672	Shortly thereafter to colleagues Broukal and to the figures with which the Federal Minister always tries to present us with a wordable presentation of how well the universities are doing. The fact is that the share of the budget available to universities in the overall budget since you are in the government has declined year after year. And the fact is that the €100 million that universities urgently need as an emergency program are still not available. That is what we want to maintain, even if you are trying to explain the opposite word. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] On the question of the ÖH. Of course, it is a question of destroying an uncomfortable representation of interest, of making it mouth-dead, of turning her to the tap, of making her incompetent, of weakening et cetera. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: You may not have read it! There’s nothing to “distort ”!]] If you make yourself here, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, and explain that this is just a necessary structural reform, a strengthening of the locations, that is a consequence of the new law and democracy policy completely in order, then I wonder if you really believe it. Openly stated: I can't imagine that, I don't trust myself to imagine it, because I'd somehow underestimate your intelligence. And, please, don't underestimate ours if you argue like that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Of course, it is about destroying an uncomfortable institution. Why should I? Do you otherwise take the right of students to choose directly at the level of federal representation? – It is intended to keep the locations directly selected. There is nothing against strengthening the sites. But the question is: Why are you weakening the federal level? – This is obviously the important approach that is actually behind it. You have to look at the overall picture that started with the idea when you came to the government, opposition politicians who criticise the government abroad, to prosecute criminal law. [[Abg. Broukal: Listen, hear!]] It is necessary to remember the main association, the ORF and the Chamber of Workers. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: If it worked at the workers' chamber,...!]] What is happening there now is that the Federal Chancellor said from this point a few weeks ago: The Chamber of Labour should not be able to present such examples unpunished. – Do you remember? “Shouldn’t be able to go unpunished”?- Oh, my God! Now, apparently, the punishment has come to him, as one hears, when one considers the quote from the ÖVP club, which Mr Brosz has brought. Of course, it is also a matter of weakening the Chamber of Workers as an institution that keeps you in mind repeatedly uncomfortable truths. Let me also say the following: We can and should do many hard conflicts. This is parliamentaryism. But: On certain questions, we should continue to agree. They are leaving basic consensus at a democratic level step by step. I know that many of them in their own ranks are already getting eerie. I think the discussions that you are hopefully conducting internally are very important. I very much urge you to take these things very seriously and not to consider them to be small steps that are not important. Always keep in mind the overall picture!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e4750	The next speaker was Mrs Wolfmayr. Speech time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e4768	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! On the budget proposal: A total of €5.95 billion will be available for schools, adult education and culture in 2005. This is a significant increase of 1.18 percent compared to the previous year – an increase which is certainly not taken for granted in view of the general budget situation. As part of the cultural budget, more money is spent on the security of the federal museums. This is a measure that is likely and hopefully considered by all of us as a priority and extremely important measure. There is also more money for the monument protection. The funds were increased by €4 million. There is, among other things, an increase in youth actions. However, the basic remuneration of the Federal Museums remains the same for the 2005/2006 budget period. The increase of €1.16 million is intended to finance the expansion of the Austrian National Library by the acquisition of the Mollard Palace for the Globe Museum and the higher operating costs of the Natural History Museum after a surface correction. In all, it is a good cultural budget that Minister Gehrer has negotiated with the Minister for Finance. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's too much for the sepulchre! There's nothing good for him at all!]] In my speech, I would like to address allegations raised by the Greens by Mr Zinggl in particular, namely his criticism of the Museum Act and the demand for what he calls “compulsory commercial management”. Of course, there is this mandatory commercial management, of course there is also an efficient control of the federal museums. But since the Federal Museums as fully-justified institutions now make public law responsible for all content and organisational decisions, they need to thank God – I think we have wanted this since the 1960s – not for every step of the business the control of the ministry. Nevertheless, they are subject to strict and even triple control, namely through the board of trustees, by a sworn auditor, as well as by the Ministry of Education and Finance. The board of trustees exercises both economic and artistic scientific supervision, and the representative of the Ministry of Finance has a veto right on all financial issues. All reports shall be audited by an audited auditor and shall be accompanied by an audit report. Double economic control! The Ministry of Education shall examine the project report approved by the Board, to which the Ministry of Finance must previously agree. The reports shall be submitted at the end of each year. They are not detailed planning but rather an overview of the content and economic planning of museum work; compliance with the planning is demonstrated by quarterly reports. Ladies and gentlemen! The Kunsthistorische Museum was the first museum to be transferred to justice in 1999, only three months after the decision of the museum reform. It had been more difficult than the subsequent museums due to the short period of implementation of the distribution. But all regulations were fulfilled. This is very good for this large-scale company with the huge collection stock, the large exhibition space and the extensive field of tasks from pure administration to scientific activity up to the execution of up to 30 special exhibitions per year. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is obvious that only the fact that this pioneering role of the transfer into an independent private-sector-based operation has a number of sources of possible errors or misunderstandings. The aim of the Court of Auditors' audit was to identify these and make proposals for any changes. A first test report, the so-called raw report, was presented in early summer. To this end, I would like to quote a reply from President Fischer to a request from the Greens on the 1995 AKH Roh Report, which reads: '... that reports from the Court of Auditors which have not yet been submitted to the National Council should be treated as 'closed', i.e. confidential. The Court of Auditors’ so-called ‘Rohreports’, which have been sent to audited bodies or competent Federal Ministers for their opinion, are therefore also expressly to be treated as confidential; they are also marked by the Court of Auditors with the express reference ‘conclusion’. So to make some uncommented points from the raw report the subject of public debates, how this is currently happening, how it is interpreted by the media and on this basis to demand consequences for the management of the KHM, that is simply unacceptable. That's not all right! [[Abg. May. Kogler: You're talking completely by the questions!]] Our parliamentary approach can only be to deal with the final report drawn up on the basis of this recent review. If these gross concerns are contained, there will be consequences. Nothing else we have from the government parties, nothing else has said Minister Gehrer. And we will certainly not get rid of this proper procedure, even if you, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, want to bring us there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e4824	Mr Zinggl, Member of the European Parliament. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. 8 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e4843	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Somehow I have the problem that because of the distribution of competence in the ministries, I do not know what art and culture is for the state. Maybe you know better. [[Abg. Big-duty truck: That's for sure!]] As a matter of fact, the whole problem of cultural policy begins, that no one knows where the whole thing is going. That's exactly a game of mourning. There is no line, no will and no joy at the ruling discourse. And this game of mourning goes on with a question to you, Mrs. Federal Minister: What to do As the Federal Minister for Culture, do you really have the whole day? – I'd like to know. It may be that you don't have so much time for culture because there are so many problems in science and in education. But without irony: Let us consider what an Austrian Minister of Culture, purely from the point of view of the task, does, except to care for the museums! Look at the cultural report! You see, there's nothing else in it. We must admit that the Austrian culture as a state task has nothing but the accumulation of objects and their care, i.e.: Pick up treasures, maintain them – and nothing else. Now it comes first: Even if we were to recognize this task as the only task, we also lost this task more or less, because the state more or less conjures the autonomy of the museums and thus takes responsibility. He gives the money and the museums do with what they want. What's going on for you, Mrs. Minister? – Actually, there is nothing else for you but to extend the directors, to complete an opening from time to time and to travel to Egypt or elsewhere with the potential directors who want to be extended back and forth to China, Afghanistan, South America, Egypt or elsewhere. That is to say, your ministry should actually be renamed “Ministry of the Museum Director’s Contract Extension”. Finally, there is the whole in relation to a real-life rightfulness. This essentially means that not even the tasks and distributions of competence of these museums have been clarified. We have a very good example right now: A few weeks ago – you may have heard this – a large Rubens exhibition was opened in the Albertina, and in a few days a large Rubens exhibition will also be opened in the Kunsthistorisches Museum. I really wonder if there is not an arwinist eviction contest, combined with lack of coordination, at last at the expense of all taxpayers and the government budget. This profiling of the museums would be the ministry's most immediate task. Who else would do that? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Großruck: Centrally managed art industry! They create what art is!]] Since we've been to the Art History Museum again, Mrs. Wolfmayr: There, of course, is the biggest deficit in disseminating, namely the lack of independent control. There is a director whose contract was recently extended by the Minister without any call for tender, of course, a director who also bears the Golden Honorary Sign of the Republic, and this Director is indignant and unabated like the eaty caterpillar Nimmersatt. [[Abg. Großruck: That's what he deserved!]] Not by chance, the financial manager of the Kunsthistorisches Museum recently said to the press: Well, what are you doing? Who else can control us? – Ms Wolfmayr, the subject of “Control”. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Wolfmayr.]] That exposes the system! It is only up to you, Mrs Federal Minister, to remove these abuses now and to be careful that nothing goes wrong, and then, if something has gone wrong, either to change the law or to exchange the museum director. But what are you doing? - Nothing! That's what I'm asking myself: What does a minister of culture do when she conducts cultural policy? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If we then allow ourselves in the Committee on Budgets to exercise control and ask questions, we will not get any information. They simply refuse to answer. That is to say, you are also preventing Parliament's control. Dr. Partik-Pablé, you mentioned the increasing number of visitors just a few days ago as a positive of the Art History Museum. I hope you've looked at these in the meantime. I said to you afterwards: In reality, visitors have become fewer, by 20 percent. [[Call the ÖVP:In what period?]] Now I'm wondering, What's going on? I am also asking a question about personnel costs. The staff costs are rising, the number of visitors is falling. Mrs. Minister! Why do staff costs rise? You have already asked this question to the director of the Art History Museum and have not received an answer from him. Now I ask you: Why do staff costs rise at the Kunsthistorisches Museum? What have the Austrians brought about so far? There are 100 percent more expensive admissions to this museum. In addition, there is a doubling of the budget for each single ticket on the part of the Ministry, on the part of the taxpayer. There is a decline in visitors and a huge reduction in the reputation of this museum. To do so, I can only “gratulate ”! There is no mention at all of effectiveness, of economic efficiency and of sparingness as it applies to the law. In fact, we hear only more about wastefulness and disorientation. That is the sum of cultural policy as it exists at the moment.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e4939	The next speaker is Mrs Rosenkranz. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e4957	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Some notes on education and school policy as one of the school partners, as someone who for almost two decades has had to leave and accompany a number of very varied and oriented children through Austrian schools. The most important thing that school policy has to do is to guarantee beyond all the ideological ideas we have in adults that the potential that exists in a human being can best develop. Nothing is worse than that a student who is in a wrong school is damned for failure and loses any joy in learning and has to carry out a school career, which then, for the last time in life, well hinders him rather than promoting him. Three things seem to me – so to speak in this matter as a pure practitioner – very important: First of all: The school, especially the primary school, must be child-friendly. Of course, this also means that the units must be manageable that the school paths are kept as short as possible, because children are not small adults, as we all know. The stress of commuting, the early rise, the long waiting time, sometimes over lunch, because one cannot go home because in the afternoon it is class and thus a lunch break, i.e. this stress, which is due to an adult – he may rather process it in the coffee shop – is not to be considered to be smaller children. The transition from the golden time before school to the time in school, where a lot is already required, must be as bright as possible, and therefore, woman Federal Minister, I am very happy and grateful that additional resources have been made available in the course of the financial compensation in order to be able to receive the small schools as well. As we know, there will be a further decline in the number of students in the next few years. Nevertheless, especially in order not to set in motion a spiral that leads down, namely towards a situation that is less and less acceptable to the families, it is important to maintain the small schools also in the countryside. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Secondly, People are highly talented – not a question – and it is good to address it. It is also good to have a differentiated school system; a differentiated school system, as we have proved to be really good for decades. I am actually wondering about you, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, where your constant attempts come from, somehow – in Vienna you see – to get the primary schools out of the education system. Rather, it would have to focus on upgrading the primary schools, as schools tailored to those with a high degree of practical reason. In the past decades of your policy, you have rightly developed a high ethos in this relationship, and I do not understand that you should get away from it now. Not everyone is well removed in a secondary school – in a school that leads to Matura and which should also lead to the conditions for a university study. There are enough people who do great things when you direct them to the right course, where they can apply their kind of gift, their practical reason. I believe that a path from the differentiated school system is a circumcision of the possibilities of our young people, and I advocate that you forget the really old hat of the entire school at last. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Thirdly, I think that continuity – with all the negatives – is already very important in the field of school in the course of the many, many reform attempts. When I think about what I had to suffer as a mother from reform projects in 20 years, what I had to do with everything, I have to say: This does not do well for the education and orientation of children. One of the concepts that has developed in the meantime to characterise what should not actually be is the concept of fun pedagogy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] A statement I can really make from the observation of children is: Nothing is more serious than a child! If we could keep this seriousness that a child has in play, in our work, in our projects, in which what we have to do, we would do excellent things. It is a diffamation of children not to recognize this seriousness and to prevent them from being serious and of course also to achieve and to measure performance. [[New call of the abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] I think it is absolutely not child-friendly to deny children this! I mean, your rejection of notes is also a wrong way. A child also needs orientation, it needs to know where it is. The long, pedagogical description instead of notes – in addition, it is wonderful – is not at all tangible for a child. How is a 6- or 7-year-old child supposed to get a picture of the state of his performance from his teacher's description when it says: You need to improve this performance, you have to do that!Unknown term type: "%s".? That's what I'm saying. Nothing! A note is tangible. Faith You're telling me: Children are far more serious than many adults want it to be! If, as someone living at the periphery of Lower Austria, I compare with a good view of Vienna and also with a great circle of acquaintances there, the school system in the rural area, which is, so to speak, a certain amount of conservative, with that in Vienna, I can say: This comparison makes me very sure! The fact that many parents give their children in private schools in Vienna alone, because in their opinion public schools are not acceptable, makes this clear. You know it yourself, because many from your area bring their children to private schools. I think this is a strange process: on the one hand, to bring the public schools into a state that one does not necessarily want to believe in one's own children, but on the other hand, one's own children, because one can also afford to attend private schools. If I can compare what you, if you have responsibility in the field of school policy, with what I see elsewhere, I can say: This comparison makes me sure! I don't think your school policy can be the right thing.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e5070	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Trunk. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e5088	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Especially valued ÖH-Chairman Team, Patrice Fuchs and Barbara Wittinger! I wish you a lot of strength, a lot of commitment and a lot of backbones on your future path! We will support you in this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mr President and Mrs Minister! The way in which democratic, but also the budgetary and climatic approach to education and science has reached a dramatic point of view in Austria. The quality of democracy is measured, among other things, by how our youth can develop in the future, critical and above all self-confident citizens. But how does this government deal with critics? – dissidents and oppositionists are threatened with criminal law, participation is replaced by the artistic economy, by brutal party politics and by dictatorship – see executive, see the main association, see ORF, see the budget reduction attempts at the AK and see also the demolition at the ÖH which is under way. [[ongoing calls to the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Extensive opposition to the ÖVP.]] It is, colleagues from the ÖVP, deeply undemocratic if you want to bend the majority as you need it. Just a comparison of what you want to do to the ÖH: That would be as if the heads of state in Austria in the future were to determine the members of the National Council and the Members of the Landtag. That would be deeply undemocratic, that would be a scandal! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Minister in particular! The current situation and, above all, the processes around the ÖH make me affected and remind me of transactions of over 30 years ago. [[Abg. Wheelers: You have no idea!]] At that time there was a first red and for the first time female chairperson of the university in Carinthia – that was at that time I – to the annoyance of an absolutely ruling ÖVP student representation at a small university in Carinthia, and at that time the ÖVP-dominated central committee of these ÖH chairmen did not accept the right to speak, the second was not paying out the funds that were paid out, and thirdly, it was also wanted to fight this democratic election legally. It was then the Minister of Science Hertha Firnberg, who put himself in front of democracy and justice and helped us to survive, and it was at that time the VSStÖ spokesman Josef Cap, who helped to speak in the central committee of the chairmen who was a woman. I say to the location of this federal government, quite simply to think: It has once meant one in connection with press promotion: The hand that feeds you does not bite! - That was Jörg Haider. At that time, the then clubman of ÖVP Andreas Khol meant that these politicians were outside the “constitutional arch”. I wonder if the ÖVP/FPÖ government has not followed this path, and I wonder where it has gone crazyly and in whose vicinity she has pushed this bow – to regret democracy in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e5171	I ask visitors at the gallery to observe the ban on the appeal from there! The next speaker is Mrs Fuhrmann. Speech time: 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e5192	Mr President. High house! One thing has to be held by looking at the educational budget or the university and technical college budget: We have an increase of 1.18 percent in the education budget, which is an increase of €69.3 million. In view of this, no one will be able to say that a plus under the line is something bad. So let's insist on what it is, because it's something positive! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The same thing has to be kept in the university budget: There is also a 6 percent increase under the line. If you make the global budget, which is secured in the University Act, and you add the salary increases, the rent expenses, the money for the implementation of the university law and, finally, the study contributions that make up at least €120 million, you will have a budget of over €2 billion for the coming year. There's also a plus under the line. This is money that will benefit the quality of education and students in particular. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the study contributions, I must say the following: This was a very painful matter for many students and also for us, the young ÖVP, because we have said from the outset that the quality must be in the foreground and not, so to speak, the deposit. The fact that this is also the case is now guaranteed. Then: Firstly, students have a say in deciding what to do with the money, and secondly, the right to participate in the University Council is now a kind of control function of how to use the tuition fees. In addition, the Vice-President has the obligation to provide information in writing and in detail about what tuition fees are used for in detail. That means: Transparency and clarity in the performance for the individual student! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This also shows the following: Firstly, there are tens of thousands of cases due to the tax deductibility of study fees, where young people benefit from it, so to speak, and on the other hand, the expansion of study funding is something that, in turn, benefits young people. When it comes to what benefits young people at universities, not least is the high school law I want to address briefly. One thing you have to presend: You can't go here and autonomously shape the universities – the universities decide themselves on structure, profile and budget – but you can't take any changes in your studentship. The time in which direct and centralist decisions have been made have long been over. [[Abg. May. Trunk: Is the National Council a centralist institution?]] This innovation makes clear clearly defined and comprehensible competences where the independence of universities is the priority. How should a Federal Office issue brochures in the future and perform the service function if different guidelines apply in every study law? It does not matter whether this is in the social field, where it is about the conditions needed to get a refund of tuition fees, or about provisions on leave for study, or about the family allowance scheme. All these are things that are regulated differently from university to university. If a student pays the annual ÖH contribution, he can expect something from it. This is something that ensures transparency. This should also motivate the students to really go to the ÖH election in order to be able to decide on it, because nothing is worse than paying something, even if it's just a small amount, and you don't know what happens to it in the end effect. This is precisely what this HSG-Novelle guarantees: the universities are in the foreground that the university decides on the ground or that the students decide which of the candidate groups is the best for them. [[Abg. May. Worm: Democracy reduction means that! And a more massive one!]] I believe that every faculty or any candidate group at the universities will make it possible for the students to make their best offer, and the group with the best offer will also win. The best will win, I tell you, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e5260	Next speaker is Mrs Mandak. 5 minutes speaking time. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé is already on the way to the speaker's desk.]] You are the next, Mrs Partik-Pablé. They come to Mrs Mandak's report, because we always change pro- and counter-redners. Mrs Fuhrmann was a pro-redner, and now a double-redner comes along, that is, Mrs Mandak, and then you are on the line. Mrs Mandak. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e5295	Mr President. High house! Mrs Gehrer, you said: They will be elected for young people. – The students have chosen an ÖH representative, and the problem now is that this ÖH representation, which is currently on the train, does not fit into your concept, because it is a student representation that, from your point of view, is tiresome to show the abuses that are reported to speak, which, if necessary, also goes to the street. You don't want that, that doesn't fit you into the stuff, and that's why you're becoming an initiative now – for no other reason at all! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] A few minutes ago, there was a protest of the students. A handful of students were sitting there at the top of the visitor gallery first, then confessed, one of them said a few words briefly. [[Abg. Scheibner: Well, a few words were not!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: In addition, he did not “speak”!]] As a result, a criminal officer – I suppose, not a member of Parliament – immediately arrived, and those who protested packed and moved very hard at the upper arm. [[Call the ÖVP:Well go!]] - I looked at that. [[Abg. Scheibner:... unlawful conduct...!]] But it is the task of those who practice the law to say first: I call on you to leave the plenary room! – This is the way one usually deals with one another in this state, and not by taking and moving people out of the upper arm immediately. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] You know, it's getting worse! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Yes, it is guaranteed worse!]] The reaction I heard from Mr Wittauer first said: One step in the butt belongs to him! ,and as second, still on top of it: [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Wow!]] I'll do it with my garbage vessel! [[Cheerfulness to representatives of the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] – So, if you find that laughing, I wonder what kind of democratic understanding You have, if this is your response to a very short demonstration of Austrian students in this Parliament! [[Abg. Scheibner: Do you find... democratic political order?]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That was illegal! You support an illegal... action...!]] An illegal action! Yes, it violates the order of this house. Yes. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You don't care!]] How many such actions have we had in this House? This was a short action that has not disturbed or affected Parliamentary events in any way! [[Abg. Scheibner: Only when it suits you!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Laws always apply only if they fit you!]] That's ridiculous, Mr. Klubobmann. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Laws apply to everyone!]] But that shows very clearly how you deal with protest. You have no culture at all! The thing that doesn't fit you into the stuff, it says: Get out of it! Done! What you do in response to protest, to show off circumstances that are not in order is that you come here and apply for an initiative. You! [[Abg. Scheibner: What else should we do except laws?]] You're always talking about co-determination between young people – great! –, by the serious youth. The tears are coming to me! They're doing events, surveys, where the press is there, and you're going down nice words. But when it comes to what do you do? – Then bring in an initiative proposal to eliminate what a thorn is in your eye: A critical ÖH that works for the students, for the study conditions of the students, and that shows that it is getting worse and not better. That's your reaction! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] If you were really concerned that there was a better cooperation, you would have invited the elected representatives of the ÖH, would have sat at a table, would have considered whether there was a need for action in the legal area and what could be changed to strengthen representations at the respective university locations! Here we are d’accord. This can certainly be improved, but not the way you do it: over the heads of those concerned! Just a short while to the alternative schools. We have been accused of supporting private schools which have no principle of performance. Our wish is that teaching methods used in alternative schools should also be applied in the regular school system. That's what we'd like! Perhaps you can talk to President Khol once, who has excellent experience with alternative schools. [[Abg. Brosz: Waldorf schools!]] Ask him if these are not very good schools, whether Waldorf schools are not very good at passing on children, even if there is no emergency system. I don't know, Mrs. Rosenkranz, how you deal with your children. I haven't given my children a note to this day. Nevertheless, they know exactly how I think in different things and how I judge them. You can do the same in the school system. You don't need the note, you can also tell someone what's good, what's bad and what you can improve. But I realize that's not the way you're going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e5565	Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé will speak next. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e5583	Ladies and gentlemen! I could have referred to an actual correction, but I would add it to my speech immediately. Mrs Mandak meant that the demonstrators would not have been asked to go but were immediately packed hard on the sleeve. – As she sees that they have been packed hard, I do not know, but, Mrs. Colleague, you have not seen the second official, or the first one who has stood here and intrusively called on the demonstrators to leave the hall. [[Abg. Sburny: We saw it, we looked!]] But they did not leave the hall, but only when they were asked a little more energetically for it. That's just for this incident up there! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to place the budget chapter “Culture” in between. It is mainly about education, and it must be said that it does not matter, because criticism is practiced everywhere, regardless of whether it is education or culture. It has also been strongly criticised in the Committee that culture does not receive much more money and, if so, only to strengthen safeguard measures. In principle, however, I would like to say something about this budget. Mr Broukal said that the government was going to take a saving course on devils coming out. [[Abg. Riepl: That's right!]] You're pretending we did it out of pure jux and pure brilliance. You all heard Mr Finanzminister's budget speech. [[Abg. Heinzl: Yes, leader!]] They have heard how urgently it is necessary to continue this saving course because we have just inherited a huge debt burden when this government has come to power. [[Abg. Riepl: And now the debt is rising!]] It would be irresponsible to raise the deficit. They're asking for devils to come out a lot of money for every area. I'd like to prove this to you: What has been called for by you today in the first two hours of this discussion would cost hundreds of millions of euros! Mr Broukal is calling for 100 million for the ÖH. [[Abg. Krainer: Not at all!]] [[Abg. Broukal: Have you heard that the rectors also demand it?]] Mr Brosz is asking for 5 million annually for immediate measures to ensure the existence of non-confessional schools. That's where Mr. Ddr asks. Deweiser no more than eight points for improvement in schools, such as a reduction in the number of students, an extension of the funding hours and so on. I am convinced that this costs at least €200 million. In these two hours alone, you have already asked for several hundred million euros, but without saying where the money is to come from. That is the problem! [[Abg. Neudeck: This is 30-year-old tradition at SPÖ!]] Tell me where the money is to come from, maybe you can talk about it if you have a reasonable proposal! By the way, Mrs Trunk – I do not know where she is from – meant that every critic of the Federal Government's policy would have to fear a criminal prosecution. I don't know where you're from, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Neudeck: From the “Falter”!]] This absurd mental form was never the subject of political discussion at all, even a thought. I'd ask you: Stay, please, at least with the truth and do not exaggerate so disastrously! [[Abg. Scheibner: They can't do that!]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I am also aware that the opposition demands, demands and demands. This is the right of opposition. But it is the duty of a federal government to make a reasonable and responsible budgetary policy, and such a one is done with this 2005 budget, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Bauer: Why don't they do that?]] The largest sum in the budget, Mr Collegue, is spent on social security: 18.86 percent are spent to secure the social existence of people! That must also be our primary concern. I can't imagine you're against it. It is obvious that only on the basis of social security does culture have a certain importance. If there were no social basis, the culture would also be of very little importance. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Zinggl has said that culture or what is happening in Austria is a game of mourning. – Yes, please, look at the 2002 Cultural Report! It must be admitted that cultural life is really not a pity. I think you can already be a little objective! There are criticism points – yes! – but the situation is really not the way you're saying it. [[Abg. Dr. Zinggl: Count them up!]] While in many countries theatres are closed, museums are closed, there are no new purchases and so on and so on, there is an extremely lively cultural life in Austria: Exhibitions, special promotions! They criticize that there is a double track in the Rubens exhibition. I have to say, I've been wondering why. But at least it is, I think, the first time that such a valuable and well-known exhibition takes place in two houses. All the special promotions and new purchases must not be ignored if one says that all this is a sad game, all a pity! According to the cultural report, 2.9 million people have visited Austrian museums in 2002 – from this we have visited the figures. That's not nothing! Rather, this shows that the museums are attractive. Not everyone has the same number of visitors, I'm correcting. At the time, I said that the number of visitors had also increased in the Art History Museum. That's not her, and of course you have to try to have more visitors there too. That's quite clear, too! It doesn't praise anyone when an abuse occurs, but I think you don't just have to do anything bad and ugly. That is simply not justified! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Zinggl, you say that the Minister or the Federal Policy is doing nothing in the culture to extend the contract of directors, to travel, to buy works of art and so on. – Well, that’s really a very simple way of thinking! I see, in the opposition you can allow everything, but a responsible opposition policy is not exactly that! [[Abg. Broukal: That's what you're talking about, isn't it?]] Of course we were also in opposition, but we have always made a constructive opposition policy, Mr Deputies. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] They were not in Parliament at the time and therefore do not know. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: But I can still remember! The Stadler!]] I would like to make a few comments: Mrs Minister, the funds for monument protection have been increased by €4 million. That is, I think, very positive and important, because it is also about Austrian tourism! We in Austria are all proud of what structures, which objects of historical importance we have, and of course there is a very important word to speak in the protection of the monument. I just think that the better financial equipment for the protection of the monument must be accompanied by a certain awareness. That is why I would ask you, as a minister, to assert your influence on the countries and communities, that valuable cultural objects are not destroyed, that they are not let rot and so on. It is still a shame that, for example, the Klimt villa is so to speak, “vegetted” that you actually don’t know what to do with the object. There is a club, but it sleeps more or less on the scarf. The same applies to the Primavesi Villa in Vienna. A huge park, which, of course, belongs to the entire ensemble, will be stuffed with any blocks of living. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: The Grasser has no cultural understanding!]] – The Primavesi villa, for example, concerns Vienna. But it doesn't matter who matters. [[Abg. Neudeck: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Niederwieser) That belongs to the BAWAG! It was an own gate now!]] I emphasize: Important objects must be protected, deputies. I don't want to have this patch again now, but that's what we all need to do to preserve the objects! Madam Minister, please do something about it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] One last word: Various museums have been equipped in such a way that they are disabled-friendly. I think these measures must be continued, because people with disabilities should also have the opportunity to visit these buildings, which are partly very old, such as the Art History Museum, the Natural History Museum and so on. I would ask you to strengthen these measures. On the whole, I am convinced that this budget will allow the cultural institutions to continue to be successfully managed.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e5847	Mr Krainer spoke in favour of an actual correction. Mr President, you know the Rules of Procedure: 2 minutes' speaking time; first the corrective and then the corrected matter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e5869	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Partik-Pablé has just said that Member Josef Broukalhätte is calling for €100 million for the ÖH today. - That's wrong! I'm actually correcting: Josef Broukalhat never demanded €100 million in addition for the Austrian high school, but this urgently needed money for the universities! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e5902	Next, Mr Magistrate. Gaßner to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e5920	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! First of all, a brief comment to you, Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé. They meant that the Minister should put more pressure on the countries and communities to obtain cultural goods. – You should look beyond Vienna! The communities make a great deal for the preservation of cultural goods, especially private persons in countless voluntary hours of work. – So much for your remark to exert pressure! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs Bundesminister, you said in your first statement: What does a good education system recognize? – They then said it was recognized that the young people have good chances! - Nice! How do you see the education system in Austria when youth unemployment, i.e. youth unemployment up to 25 years old, is 7.6% in the third quarter? Is our education system bad, Mrs. Federal Minister? We have too many youth unemployed, so according to your statement, your education policy is not true, Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I just looked at a budget request, Mrs Mag. Kuntzl On She said: Which school tests are currently being carried out, broken down by type of school? – You listed a lot of school attempts in the answer, but I did not find a single school attempt at a compulsory school in this list. I'll hear you again. Well, that's not my place, that's what the countries are doing and so on! – But They are Minister of Education and should know what school tests are being carried out in compulsory schools. Or there is no School tests? Is the compulsory school not so important to you anymore? If you look at the budget, you could believe that it is no longer important to you. I am hearing Members of the Government say that the budget has grown bigger and more is spent on the fact that education policy is excellent. – Yes, with this argument, however, your education policy in compulsory schools is not excellent, because this is the only item in the budget that is set lower: minus 2.1 percent for compulsory schools! Mrs. Federal Minister! I appeal to you to take the compulsory schools, the public schools, the primary schools really more seriously, and not simply “handling them along” or not to deal with them at all, according to the motto: That's not my competence! Teachers there are getting less and less. How is it going to go on there if you say you had 12 million euros annually in the budget to receive the micro-schools? Yes, like, please, Mrs. Minister? How do you get the small schools in rural areas? I have not heard a single proposal from you yet, how that should be possible! Finally, I would like to thank all the teachers of Austria who, despite this school policy and despite this school budget, make an excellent school in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e5990	The next item is the report by Mrs Schiesermair. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e6008	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! I start right at the beginning of my speech with a few facts: Increase in the education budget total: plus 1.18 percent – that is €70 million – personnel plus 3.25 percent – that is €71 million – real-time expenditure plus €6.86 percent – that is €63 million – plus 5.9 percent – that is, per student will be added €13.55 – personnel AHS plus 3.10 percent, staff BMHS plus 3.95 percent, staff vocational schools plus 2.9 percent, Waldorf and alternative schools plus 6.95 percent, adult education – you hear and marvel! – plus 28 percent – that’s €2.57 million! Mr Gaßner referred to the only point that had been put forward by a minus, but did not say that we had fewer posts by 18,000 compulsory school students and therefore need fewer posts and that is why the minus is in front of them. If he had also mentioned this, that would have been a little more objective. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There are also more posts for countries at federal schools and a lot more. That's the facts. – Now the question arises how these facts are presented by whom. Now I want to put the term “change” into play. We, who are in government responsibility and take this responsibility very seriously, are responding to challenges with changes – positive changes. You, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, act slightly differently with this term. They take the facts and change facts in such a way that you can beat down party-political small money from them. That's change I don't understand. Now for adult education: I think it is a positive sign of lifelong learning if a strong signal is given in the field of adult education. It has already been mentioned: a 28-percent increase in this area, but also the deductibility of school costs and the cost of teaching materials for those people who actively pursue their training in addition to their profession and thus increase their chances in the labour market. That's exactly what it's all about: Chances to Increase! In this way we support the people in our country who actively shape their lives and react independently to changes in the working world. When the wind of change blows, when the wind of change blows, they build one wall and the other sailing ships. I'm proud to be one of the ship builders.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e6051	The next item is Mrs Sburny's speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e6079	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This debate leads us to look more closely at the figures that have been put into space. I would like to start by saying what my colleague Mr Brosz has already said, Mrs Minister: You said there would be more 450 posts for teachers this year, up by €12 million more. First of all: If you convert this, then 12 million € for 450 posts will cost you 26 000 € per year, and this is a little bit for an average teacher's job. That is, one can assume that you obviously only want to make new appointments. What do you do with the old and older teachers? – It won't be another early retirement wave, will it? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The second is that apart from that, even if you do not calculate it, 1,500 posts are not budgeted. If you say that there are €12 million more and €54 million less, then even if you actually count 450 posts, it would still be 1 500 places that are not budgeted. The fact that you're talking about an increase seems a bit strange to me. Further: You have previously taught our colleagues Grünewald very detailed about what is an extension of the balance sheet. I have here the 2003 budget speech of Minister Grasser, and in this he has found – I quote – that: This budget sets clear priorities here. “We expect more than €8.2 billion for education and science in the 2003 budget; in 2004 these expenditures will even increase to over €9 billion.” In 1999, this was still modest €7.5 billion. Expenditure on universities and scientific institutions will almost double between 1999 and 2004. [[Abg. Broukal: A very blamable sentence! For a Finance Minister almost work-damaging!]] – This is a very blamable sentence. This is precisely what you have tried to explain first. This is a classic extension of the balance sheet, which has been achieved by disbursing the universities, but that the revenue that you have been able to obtain by doing so is again reflected in expenditure. That is, definitely there has been no increase, in any case not to the extent you have claimed. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Now on a point that has already been the subject today, namely the €50 million that the Council of Research and Technology Development has just referred to. They called it: Repurchasing for research infrastructure. It is repeatedly pointed out that university is teaching and research in one and that this is therefore useful. I would like to point out once again that the funds available to the Council for Research and Technology Development are intended for investment in research projects and not for the renovation of the university's infrastructure, which is entirely achieved because you simply have too little budget. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Finally, a question that you might still address: Today, there is a lot of talk about high school and university. In view of the democratic attack you are planning on the new law, this is not surprising either. Nevertheless, we would like to ask about the cultural area, perhaps you could give us an answer to the question – to just one of many who have been asked again and again and to which you never have an answer –: Why have staff costs increased in the Cultural History Museum? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e6134	The next item is Mrs Felzmann's speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e6152	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Our chapter concerns education, science and culture. All three topics are equally important for the ÖVP, even if you are always different in the discussion. We are concerned about the future, and in this context I am particularly pleased that Mr. State Secretary Morak and the Federal Chancellery are focusing on multimedia. This is reflected, among other things, in Austria's intensive preparations for the World Summit of the Information Society in Tunis in 2005. As part of this world summit, the World Summit Award, which is the world multimedia award, is awarded. This award was made by an Austrian initiative, and we have been able to score outstandingly internationally through our commitment. These are topics that the ÖVP is dealing with today, because we are also interested in how we can generally deal with the communication of information, how our children deal with information and knowledge, how we can support our teachers in this education and training. We are dealing with issues that concern the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I also noticed that your page on “Education” comes from relatively little content. It is disrupted by individual percentages in the budget, but I have not really noticed essential proposals – I must say that so far. This is like a red thread, also with regard to the debate on elite union, which I would like to take a short time. I mean, that's where the SPÖ took a special class zigzag course. I'm allowed to quote: Cast builder: Elite Unis for the Economy!Use custom fonts; SPÖ: Not for elite union!Use custom fonts; SP: Yes to the elite union – but not in Austria! – In view of this, I have to say, it is really very difficult to follow your ideas in concrete terms. It is, as has been said, a pervasive red thread that also leads to Salzburg. I found a name there, namely the name of Mr Mayor's damage which I noticed when he was not only with mayor [[Abg. Broukal: But you've known that for a long time, haven't you?]] Häupl's key operator of the measure was that the advertising charge is not abolished, which is a relic from the past, but has also been very intensively committed to minimizing the cultural budget in Salzburg. He says: We need to reduce, but it will not concern many institutions. Therefore, I only ask for fairplay for everyone in the discussion and not just to act purely polemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e6195	The next item is the speech by Mr Krainer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e6213	Madam President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The behaviour of colleague Brinek and colleague Achleitner in connection with the Austrian high schooling is, I think, a shame for this House. [[Abg. Donabauer: Have a good time!]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Learn Parliamentaryism!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Take a little back!]] [[Abg. Donabauer: Hello, something like that! Meet yourself in the language!]] I can also explain why. This is seamless – and this must be said – in the way this small coalition has been trying since 2000 to push back democracy and allow fewer and less democracy in our country. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: You have no idea of parliamentarianism!]] First, in 2000, the liberals began giving birth to ideas on how to change the posting of the Chamber of Workers to the main association of social security institutions, so that there is a majority for black and blue so that you can paint it. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: This is unsustainable!]] Then came the Labour Chamber election – and this resulted in a veritable defeat for you from the FPÖ. This has also led to the fact that you did not have a majority with these new proposals – and so you have made a new proposal. You then changed the law to that you suddenly had a majority there, although that was not the case due to the results of the elections. I feel that this is a shame to democracy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: You had a defeat at the National Council election, didn't you?]] [[Further calls to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Now you are using ÖVP and FPÖ special commissions to examine how to take money away from the Chamber of Workers and limit their ability to act. [[Abg. Neudeck: Don't take away, but don't give it back! That's the difference!]] You are not least concerned that the Chamber of Commerce is taking more than twice as much money as the Chamber of Labour, but this is not so critical, they are not always pre-declared and do not always talk about it. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: My God!]] They do not always demonstrate the policy that this government is making for workers in that country. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Ah go!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: You're just talking about it, you haven't worked out any basics!]] The Austrian University School now comes: When you lost the majority there four years ago when red-green won the majority, you were still thinking of an operational accident. When you lost the relative majority two years ago, it has become clear that a lot has changed. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: You lost here, that's your problem!]] Obviously, now you have lost faith in the fact that you can ever regain the majority on a democratic basis at the universities. That's why you just change the rules of the game until you get the result that comes out. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] I don't feel that very democratic, I find that undemocratic. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Personally, I can only tell you: You can't take as much food as you want to excite orally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e6476	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Dr. Brader. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e6505	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr Krainer, you are a disgrace! I'd like to tell you that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] But now on the subject: The draft budget for education is, I believe, the best proof that a very quality and sustainable education policy is being made in Austria. Just the €12 million provided to countries for the maintenance of small schools or for the coverage of special educational funding needs is proof that sustainable management is being managed. I would like to deal with the coverage of this need for medical education. We in Austria are in the happy position that this funding needs will be made possible according to the unique situation of the child concerned, and we have a very high standard there. Since the promotion of children with hearing disabilities has already been mentioned today, I would like to briefly outline what conditions should be fulfilled so that the child with hearing disabilities can be optimally promoted. That's where we're on a very good way. We have a good early detection. In most federal countries, newborns are examined to see if they can hear accordingly. We have an early hardware supply and early promotion. The decision whether this promotion is based on vocal, sign language or bilingual principles lies with the parents and is a very important one. In order to enable children with hearing impairment the best educational opportunities and to open up opportunities for them in the profession and society, it is necessary, on the one hand, to use the new medical achievements on the other hand. For some time now, Cochlea implants have been increasingly used in Austria, providing optimal conditions for many children with appropriate disabilities. In order to make it possible for these children to participate optimally in the education process, the subcontractors therefore submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you to give your consent to this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e6577	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by the honourable Members. Dr. Brader, Dr. Helene Partik-Pablé, colleagues are properly introduced and supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e6631	Mr Dr. Stummvoll spoke on the Rules of Procedure. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e6650	Madam President. I would ask you to get the minutes of Mr Krainer's speech. I believe that he deserves a call for order on the basis of his last sentence, which he spoke in the direction of the two government groups.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e6677	I would like to ask for this protocol. My perception was different. We will examine the matter if the Minutes are available. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You do not see anything about the socialists at all, I have already noticed!]] The next item is the report by Mr Riepl. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e6706	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! When talking to representatives of the economy, it is often heard of them that it is a site advantage if workers have high educational standards when their qualifications are high. I think this argument is correct. – You can sum it up with a sentence: If the employees have a good training, the economy is fine. [[Abg. Neudeck: Who makes it up?]] This makes me a part of vocational education. The 2005 estimate foresees an increase of 3.5 percent in the budget. I believe that this increase is completely inadequate, especially in order to comply with what I said earlier, namely to achieve a high level of education among workers. With this 3.5 percent in Plus, we also have to cover the increasing number of students. The salary increases and the structural effects of the employees in the education sector are added to the needs of schools. I'll cut off and say, I think we don't have enough resources to improve education quality. We have money to manage, but we have no money to make, especially in the field of vocational education and training. Ladies and gentlemen! Last year, the budget debate announced that an increase in the number of places in middle and higher education was planned by 1,500. The same announcement is again being made in the budget's work today. It seems that nothing is happening in this direction. It's being announced, but there's nothing or too little going on there. Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, the repetition of announcements will not achieve the necessary improvements in vocational education and training. – This too is a reason for the SPÖ’s criticism towards you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Their conservative policy preserves the entire school area and prevents the right steps for the future from being taken now. That is unfortunate, and that is why we do not agree with this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e6742	Mr Donabauer spoke in favour of an actual correction. Mr President, you know the Rules of Procedure: 2 minutes, first of all the points to be corrected, then the points to be corrected. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e6767	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Kai Jan Krainerhat claimed that the government had set up a commission to take away money from the Chamber of Workers. – That’s wrong! Rather, it is true that the AK representatives make any contribution change in health as unreasonable, but even stop their hands and take any money. That's not all right!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e6824	Mr Donabauer, that was actually not a correction, I expressly note. [[Abg. Dr. Bauer: That was no correction!]] Next item is the report by Mrs Franz. [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] I'm looking for peace in the hall! Mrs Franz is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 3 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e6867	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen here in the High House! In advance, I note that in Austria we have consistently excellent teachers who accompany our children, our young people in life. I would like to thank them from this point of view for ensuring the quality of education in Austria. [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Freeman and the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is a pioneer in many ways for positive developments, not only in the EU but also internationally. For example, we are at the forefront of education expenditure for the 6- to 15-year-olds not only across the EU, but worldwide. I hold a balance sheet here, three years eFit Austria, and I would like to highlight this project more closely. This initiative serves as a platform for numerous ideas and projects for the future and aims to enable all Austrians to have new access to teaching, research and culture. The computer billions provided by the Federal Government in 2000 – at the time still in Schilling – served as an essential basis for this project. The great success of eFit Austria can be seen from the fact that the objectives defined in the individual areas were clearly achieved or partly exceeded. I refer to the following results: First: In 2000, 63 percent of students had Internet access, today it is 100 percent. Secondly, There are currently eight PCs on average at the primary schools on a hundred pupils, and 20 PCs in the vocational schools. Thirdly, In the school year 2003/2004, i.e. last school year, there were already 402 notebook classes, from which a total of 8 400 students benefited. In 2000, it was only 33. Something has also been done in teacher training. By the end of 2003, 30 000 teachers completed, about 70 percent of teachers, IT courses. Since 2001, 2 million € have been available to teachers’ education and training institutions. By April 2004, 88 800 certificates were issued for the European Computer Driver's Licence. In the third year, eFit Austria participated in IT further education by 40 percent more people than in 2000. I have taken this issue out not only because it is a great success story, but also because the new communication technologies are particularly important for rural areas. Having access to knowledge and information without any location disadvantages, this creates equivalent living conditions also for rural areas. The educational budget provides a good basis for quality in our schools. The financial compensation also strengthened rural schools. I'm glad. This government is on a good educational path!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e6941	The next item is Mrs Walther's speech. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e6959	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Dear guests at the gallery! Today, the PISA study will deal with mathematics and standards in schools in Europe. In this context, I would like to give the following example from Graz: Due to the limitation of the units of value at BG/BRG Kepler by 360 units of value – and that at the end of the first week of school – the budget for the mathematics olympiade was halved. The preparation for the participants of this gymnasium is therefore massively at risk for the school year 2004/2005. However, it must be noted that the BG/BRG Kepler is not only known throughout the country, but also throughout the country, across Europe, even internationally, for its great successes with the Math Olympics. Now on the topic of ‘academics’ and their budgeting. The High School Development and Financing Plan III was adopted in May 2004. He provided € 156.88 million, and this sum has been reduced by €5.284 million in the last six months. The participation rights at universities as a whole, the possibilities of students, teachers, professors and assistants at universities have been very worrying since the 2002 UOG. This is also confirmed by those concerned, students and teachers. At this point, I would like to thank the staff in the education sector for continuing their efforts to maintain the high level of education and higher education despite these reduction measures. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e6998	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Sonnberger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e7017	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Globalisation requires answers, and the government has begun to focus on education, science, research and development in the coming years. Whoever stops getting better has stopped being good! The university reform is a good example of the joy of reform. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: Destruction will mean that!]] It brought independence from universities and clear decision-making structures. It enables focus formation and profile development. A global budget and performance agreements are the core points, and these ensure an upsurge of universities. Also € 68 million for the research infrastructure is a considerable amount. If the Social Democrats say that it is nothing at all, they no longer know how to deal with money properly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In the context of this university reform, SPÖ had nothing to do with making 57 complaints. 54 times, I don't know who you're going to consult, three times you've got a right, but that's only for the service agreements, for example, that a legal protection agency is set up. The technical universities with the goal of 33 000 students in 2010 are experiencing a special bloom. If €200 million is made available for this, this means that innovation is really being put on the education market. Research and development, set at the Lisbon target: 2.5 percent in 2006 and the ambitious 3 percent target in 2010 will contribute to a corresponding upturn in this area. From 1997 to 2000, €4.6 billion was invested, with €5.7 billion from 2001 to 2004. Finally, a few more thoughts about adult education. The topic is the development of education information and education advice. Focusing on new basic qualifications for sustainable participation in the knowledge society is needed. Special activities for remote-educational shifts are shown – if you look at the unemployment figures in this area – special attention is required for re-entry and older workers, as well as for innovation in teaching and learning methods. In the end, learning is also to bring learners closer spatially. We are in favour of this, and we advocate – contrary to the SPÖ, which calls for the opposite – that schools in rural areas, even if the total number of students is below 300, should not be closed but expanded into real educational centres for the population. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The aim of this government is also a wider range of e-learning and distance learning. The legal studies are a very good example of this; they are offered on a distance basis in Linz. The creation of a better understanding of education and quality assurance and the improvement of international education cooperation are the key factors in modern adult education. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e7072	The next item is Mrs Schasching's speech. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e7091	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Bundeskanzler – because you are just sitting there – we are now negotiating the budget chapter on education and think you should rather save yourself than in education. That, in principle, on this budget! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The educational budget does not give rise to jubilation, esteemed Members of the government groups! With 9.3 percent of total expenditure, the education budget has been the lowest ever since the start of this blue-black federal government. Since you started your government, this educational budget is the lowest of all! Whatever my previous speakers said about the government groups: Please, these are the numbers, hold on! That's right, unfortunately. Therefore, there is no reason to rejoice for us, but also no reason to rejoice for parents and students. If 90 000 people make the effort to sign up to the quality of education and school in compulsory schools, that is not a small number. You know this number, Mrs. Education Minister, and she should give you some thought. Not only have you ignored the educational popular desire, in which the demand for a reduction in the maximum number of school students has already been raised to 25, but you also ignore the fact that there are concerned parents and students and that people no longer want to be liked, that most important of all, namely, in the training of their children, is saved. We want to ensure the high quality that is still available in schools – despite the savings measures! At this point a warm thanks to all teachers who still maintain this high quality. We simply and simply want the gifts to be promoted where it is necessary, This means that sufficient hours are provided to further support these talents, but also to be able to compensate for deficits. We need enough teachers, we need enough hours to do so, and we don't need overcrowded classes. It's not possible otherwise! We also want – as you already know, Mrs. Federal Minister – the further expansion of all day schools. We believe that this is the better concept – not only because it calls for the economy, not just because it simply considers many parents to be necessary, but because we believe that the pedagogical concept behind it is better, because it is simply much better to know our children all day long. One last sentence, Mrs Bundesminister: We have the European Year of Education through Sport 2004 and we have sent you a 10-point SPÖ programme. – The year is not over yet, I would be very pleased to receive an answer from you to this letter. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e7142	Mr Dr. Niederwieser spoke on an actual correction. Mr President, you know the Rules of Procedure: 2 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e7163	Madam President. High house! Mr. Dr. Sonnberger claimed that the SPÖ wanted to lock schools with less than 300 children. [[Abg. May. Controller: We already know that!]] – This claim is not correct – through three decades of social-democratic school politics! It is true that this is a concept that ensures an organisational combination of different sites, which are naturally to be maintained, so that more education and less administration can take place. Just outside, I'll add: Through such discussions you make a constructive work at the Austrian Convention very difficult.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e7204	Mr President, you know that the last sentence has nothing to do with an actual correction. I would ask you to refrain from making any additions to actual corrections. Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hütl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e7225	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Since I have hardly heard a negative word from the opposition speakers about the vocational colleges, I accept this as a benevolent consent. That's true, too, because the numbers speak for themselves. The Federal Estimate 2005 will provide € 151.6 million for the technical universities. This is an increase of around €45 million and an increase of 42 percent compared to the 2004 Federal Estimate. Until full expansion in 2010, federal funding for the high school sector will increase to over €200 million annually. Furthermore, a needs-based extension of the study places to 33,000 places by the year 2010. In order to achieve this number, 300 new beginners will be approved annually from the 2005/06 academic year onwards. This will result in a plus of 4 200 additional study places until the end of the development plan III in 2010. After ten years of successful expansion and growth of technical colleges, the third development and financing plan, now stands at 1. In October 2005, it entered into force, in the sign of qualitative development. The most important contents are: Focus on technology, science and technology-related services, i.e. technology, information, production and biotechnology are being forced; sustainable development of applied research and development; this is also supported by the FH research support programme ‘FH plus’; Internationalisation and European Higher Education Area; in other words, we strive for academic mobility, international cooperation and networks; increasing trans-regional attractiveness; Increase in the proportion of women currently 38 percent – I would like to add that at the FH in Wieselburg there is an almost balanced quota, 51 percent of students and 49 percent of students –; vocational education and training courses at vocational colleges; 27 percent of all courses are already organised in a professional capacity; and Increase the permeability of the education system; graduates of FH degree and master's degree programmes are entitled to start a doctorate at a university. The successful colleges are a focus of this federal government and will continue to be it in the future. They will continue to be expanded, and this federal proposal will also contribute to this in 2005. I would also like to thank our Federal Minister and her ministry for this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e7287	Next item is the report by Mr Faul. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e7305	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Donabauer, it is an indebtedness and an insolence when you come out here as a knowledge bearer and make fun of the Chamber of Labour and Chamber contributions. We, the working people, finance their own contributions; even at the Chamber of Commerce, this is the case, Mr Mitterlehner sets out his contributions at the Chamber of Commerce' Day. Their contributions to the Chamber of Labour, Mr. Donabauer, are paid 70 percent from public funds. If you want to discuss this with us, we can be happy to conduct it so that we can present how it really is. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But back to the topic of teaching. Mrs. Federal Minister, it is true that it is time and again when you present the figures of relations here and therefore also give the Austrian position in the European comparison, but on the occasion of a European conference I have seen that the ratios in other countries are more justly divided. We have many small schools and confess to them – I really want to confirm that no one wants to abolish small schools in the country and thus damage the infrastructure of the communities – but therefore, the urban schools in conurbation centres, such as in the capitals, but especially in the city of Vienna, are affected because the maximum number of students in the schools of equal accessibility is simply not limited from above. This means less funding for students by teachers, no special care and therefore a real disadvantage to the large school sites.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e7346	The next item is the speech by Mr Kurzbauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e7365	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I have followed the debate very closely, especially with regard to the university sector. In particular, statements were made by the opposition parties as follows: It will be shortened and saved for so long until the universities no longer move on. It is spoken of by “Hungarian Course”, “Hungarians”, “Trauerspiel” and “Schande”. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! I honestly wonder what sense it makes if you suffer from all our education, or what messages and signals to our youth and students it is if you are constantly insecure. We live in one of the richest countries of our earth with very high quality standards, especially in the field of education, and we should motivate our young people, ladies and gentlemen, to give their positive signals and to look ahead. To Chapter 14: Today, the budget of science has been repeatedly pointed out and the opposition has been told that it has been shortened. I would like to mention a few figures: With an amount of €3,120 billion, the education sector is at least 4.87 percent of the total expenditure of the state. Let us make a comparison to 1994: In 1994, it was €2.2 billion or 4.44 percent, that is, less. And the following bill: 4.44 percent of the 64 billion total expenditure, that is 2.8 billion, so that it is 379 million more that are now available to us. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I think we are well equipped with this budget to keep quality standards, and thus give a positive future perspective.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e7408	Next item is the report by Mr Rada. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e7426	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! In the short period of time, it cannot be said everything that needs to be said, in particular with regard to the statements made by the previous speakers of the government parties, especially those of the Education spokesperson Amon and Rossmann. You wonder to what extent they have experienced school and education outside of the time when they went to school themselves. If in the “Kurier” of Sunday it is said that we have a school like at the time of Rosegger, I can only give the editor a 100 percent right. It says that 5 000 teachers have been removed for less than 120,000 hours of weeks – and this does not result simply in the financial compensatory negotiations, highly appreciated woman minister, the declines in birth rates that you have always brought together. As a representative of this Federal Government, you cannot make it so easy to always say that the heads of state are responsible and nobody else is responsible. You've supported this. We lack the support for foreign-speaking students, mother tongue lessons. We lack other funding measures, we lack a lot, we lack everything. Mr Schöls is not present in the hall at the moment, I wanted to explain something to him – he never takes care and doesn't really know how to deal with this issue. We have problems in the areas of maternity protection, education, preparation and cetera. Mrs. Federal Minister! Our education system has fallen enormously in recent years and corresponds to what the “curer” writes. [[Abg. Lens: Can you say a positive sentence?]] Perhaps you have taken bonds on your trips to the Far East, where the maximum number of students is 50 to 70 on the agenda. This is absolutely unbearable for Austria. And if you claim that the micro-schools aren't closed, that's basically not right. A final sentence on the request of Mr Brader: We agree with this request, although we absolutely do not agree with the introduction of this request, but we are still happy to give it our consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e7463	I would like to express my warm thanks to the ladies and gentlemen of the sign interpreters. We had originally scheduled the beginning of the meeting for 9 a.m. and have therefore also arrived at the time limit of the interpretation. I thank you very much for the long and persistent translation. – Thank you very much! [[General condolences.]] The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Donnerbauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e7490	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen Kolegen! If one has followed today's debate specifically on science and universities, it is noted that the opposition, which, although always gives itself the touch of progressiveness, is in fact in this area – as in many other areas too; one has this impression – lives unfortunately in the past, in the past of the universities that thank God is behind us, which no longer conforms to today's international standard and no longer to the legal provisions that prevail in Austria, nor to how the system was designed in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: The good times are over – but they come back!]] It is no longer that each one of us goes out and simply demands more money for the universities, but there are global budgets for universities, there are additional fees as they have been agreed and fixed in the university law, and how each university is now dealing with these resources, how it uses them most efficiently, is the university's business. This is quite a view which is not foreign to the SPÖ. Mr Broukal expressed his opinion at the time when he still believed he was becoming a minister of science: Save 10 percent at universities, that's no problem at all, they don't even notice! – Thank God he has not become Minister of Science. We don't save, not 10 percent or less, but we give the universities more money and rightly leave them the freedom to use the money as they mean. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Bucher.]] But there is a second important difference to the old system in which the opposition is obviously still alive, namely: The universities have been stopped – they have been successful in doing so in the last one and a half years – to manage third-party funds, to strive for third-party funds. This is done on the one hand in joint research projects, on the other hand in the meantime also increasingly in Foundation professorships, by providing and financing professorships for certain areas of activity to various companies and other local authorities. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: Other Ministries...! The Ministry of Defence, for example, is doing this!]] This makes sense and works very well. Finally, I would like to refer to the very strongly debated amendment to the High School Act. The criticism of the opposition always comes here in two areas, she says it is undemocratic. On the one hand, it should be undemocratic because an initiative proposal has been submitted. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! How do you see our work here in this House if an initiative by Members of this House is to be undemocratic? I don't understand this accusation at all. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: The content is also relevant!]] [[Abg. Sburny: Not that, but the content! You don't understand!]] – No, no, even the procedure was always criticized, including the procedure. I don't understand this accusation at all. Usually it's said at this point by you: The evil government! Now comes a request from Members of this House, and suddenly it says: The government should come back, we do not want an initiative, but a government proposal. - It's supposed to understand who wants to. As far as the content is concerned, however, the accusation that what we have provided would be undemocratic. I do not understand that something should be undemocratic, which has been common in many areas in Austria for years and decades. Take, for example, the Chamber of Workers, take other legal interests, even there, no national representation is elected by all voters, but each chooses for his area, where it is useful and necessary, and these representations then determine their nationally uniform representation. [[Abg. Sburny: Or the Chamber of Commerce!]] This will also work in higher education and is equally useful there, even where it is especially important for autonomous universities to have strong representations at universities also of students who can bring in the interests of their members and students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e7590	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Muttons. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e7608	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Mr. Donnerbauer! What's undemocratic? We think talks are democratic, discussions with those concerned, and not “speed kills”, about them and quickly change them. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Is there!]] [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Sburny.]] [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: The talks are yes!]] I would like to comment on the Culture chapter. The deliberations on the budget chapter culture have left a bad aftertaste, especially because there has been a lot of failure to answer numerous open questions about museums by the competent minister. Here, Mrs. Gehrer has proved that she follows the German Chancellor's motto – and that she is a schoolteacher – on all pressing questions related to the Art History Museum and its managing director, even to keep silent or to answer questions of budgetary relevance to iron. We've been very busy dealing with the Causa Seipel lately. Co-player in this moral image almost baroque The fullness of power is a museum prince, an educational minister who created the museum prince, promotes him and now makes him the wall. Or maybe you should say: The spirits she called out won't let her go! The President of the Museum is now, as is known, highly criticised by the Court of Auditors. There is among other things the talk of exploding costs, of extremely generous representation costs, of questionable shops, and we also get insight into the Art History Museum as a place of celebrations for a government member – of course at the expense of taxpayers. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Just as it happened for Häupl!]] On legitimate questions to resolve these abuses, we reap either elusive answers or, as has already been said, silence. It has already been said a lot about Causa Seiel, the Court of Auditors, the opposition, the media, and it is tiring, but, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue and we will continue to ask until we get the answers until the Minister finally gives his views and becomes active. [[Abg. Dr. Wolfmayr: After the final report, Mrs. Colleague!]] Because the Causa Seipel is just a symptom of the government's museum policy, or perhaps one should also say: for the government's non-museum policy. As the developments in recent years have shown, there is no strategic planning of museum policy, which has been addressed more often today. So it's a permanent burner. Where does the overall study of the museum landscape remain? Where is the control necessary for the Art History Museum? The fact that more funds are made available in the 2005 budget for the safety of museums is not so much the forward-looking policy as follows the debate that we held after the robbery, after the disappearance of the “Saliera”. Finally, I would like to draw attention to an area of the cultural budget, in which unfortunately there are no increases but reductions. A number of grants awarded by the Ministry of Education are subject to reductions, particularly in the area of important cultural communication. In recent years, this area has experienced a very serious development. What sounds so harmless on the website of the ÖKS, the Austrian cultural service, namely: “With the beginning of 2004, the non-profit organisations ÖKS and the office for cultural communication were integrated into KulturKontakt Austria.” was in fact something different, ladies and gentlemen, namely the execution of a ministerial savings contract with the subsequent merger of the three institutions while simultaneously “sawing” of the unacceptable management. So: Structural change not for the sake of structural change, but to make uncomfortable and critical mouth dead. Ladies and gentlemen! We now also see that in the field of ÖH. Clearly, there is now the intention of reciprocating this cultural mediation financially. I find this extremely worrying, because cultural education and cultural mediation are considered as a basic condition in a globalised world. Unfortunately, I have the impression by this government that it equates cultural communication with cultural exports. Whether this Austria is doing well, we'll see. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e7694	Mrs. Gehrer has spoken. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e7712	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would now like to see the opportunity to highlight some of the areas that have been addressed. First on the cultural field: I would like to point out that I have not answered the questions in committee. I have answered every question, and the questions that have been raised in the Court of Auditors' report have been answered by me to the effect that there is currently a draft Court of Auditors' report, that an opinion has been drawn up by the Museum of Art History, and that, if there is a final report, we will examine these questions more closely. I think that is the answer to these questions, because a report on the Court of Auditors is not a matter of public consultation, you all know. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Bucher.]] But I also say quite clearly: There have been allegations and an opinion has been delivered. The Court of Auditors will examine this opinion very seriously. I also believe that the size of the accusations must be proportionate to what has happened in the art history museum in recent years, what has developed, what has been done. I also say quite clearly to you: If there are serious accusations, there will be serious consequences. If the accusations are smaller, there will be smaller consequences. I think that is what we have to do with the provision of the final report of the Court of Auditors. When we look at the museum landscape, I can see that we have a flourishing museum landscape – with the MuseumsQuartier, with all the federal museums that make incredible offers in the field of exhibition, in the field of event activities for Austrians, and especially in cultural tourism, have a very special importance. I mean, for that, those who work there to say a warm thank you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, there are always new challenges, further renovations, further improvements, and a great challenge is security. That is why we have also provided for additional resources for security in the budget. I would also like to answer some questions raised by previous speakers. Mrs Sburny or Mrs Mandak asked why we need more money for staff in the Art History Museum. Ladies and gentlemen! The budget has been de facto frozen since 1998. Only: There are salary increases, there are biennials jumps, there is the need to hire additional staff. Further: The theatre museum has come to this, as has the National History Museum – and thus there is a larger staff budget. By the way, all of this is to be read in the annual report of the Art History Museum, on page 138. [[the speaker keeps them up to date]] This report has also been transmitted by Members, and in this it is quite clear how much staff is used for this. Mrs Sburny has also said that the money of the Council for Research and Technology Development is “no real money” for universities. – Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, do you want to say that no real, no serious basic research is being carried out at universities?- Oh, my God! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sburny.]] A large part of the work of the universities is research. And these funds are used for research structures that are also used for teaching. [[Abg. Sburny: It would be good if there might be a basic equipment...!]] Everyone knows that in areas where there are technological institutions for research, of course, courses are also taking place, so that this is used for both. I do not understand why it is not possible to recognise that – from tax funds – € 68 million will be made available again this year, next year € 25 million and next year € 25 million, for the renewal and improvement of infrastructure, for new infrastructure, for excellence centres, for improvements, for prioritying in addition to the budget. [[Abg. Sburny: Just not extra! It's just going to be resociety!]] This is made available in addition to the normal budget, target-oriented and on request: for actual improvements in the area of infrastructure, for research, but not in accordance with the principle of foundry. What is made available: Equipment with computers, networking of computers, all of which is necessary for research, for research as well as for teaching. [[Abg. Sburny: This is a basic equipment!]] In other words, the funds are used for infrastructure, for research, which is also available to teaching. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I would just like to mention briefly that there has not yet been any appreciation for what progress has been made in the field of universities. The university buildings are constantly being maintained: In 2004, €30 million has been invested, since 2000 24 university projects have been completed, and in 2005 the construction and general renovation of the Mozarteum in Salzburg and the second section of the University of Music and Performing Arts Vienna are planned to cost around €48 million. At the University of Graz, €28 million will be invested; the expansion and general redevelopment of judicial medicine will cost €12 million; the redesign of the departmental library for humanities at the University of Innsbruck will amount to €12.6 million. Mrs Walther said that she thanked all those involved for the high level of education and higher education. – Ladies and gentlemen, I also believe that this is important and right and what Mrs Walther has confirmed here: that we have a high level of education and higher education. I would like to point out that there is an investigation of ‘FOCUS’ – the result of this survey is on 30 October. September – according to 61 percent of respondents say that they are “very satisfied” with education in Austria, 30 percent say they are “satisfied”. That is, 91 percent of Austrians are very satisfied with education. Thanks to all teachers, thanks to all professors!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e7834	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig is speaking as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e7852	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! It is said that the budget is the policy cast in figures. Unfortunately, you cannot understand your cultural policy, Mrs Bundesminister, on the basis of the budget, because many funding projects are not defined in more detail. And I regret that! It would be desirable if there were more transparency in this area. Mrs Minister, as a cultural councillor in my home community, I would now like to add a little understanding of cultural policy to this debate. In my opinion, cultural policy should allow and promote the whole range of forms of expression. Cultural policy must ensure that trends in social developments are recognised, demonstrated, named and discussed publicly. However, cultural policy is primarily characterised by tolerance. And I miss this tolerance with my colleagues from the government parties, Mrs Minister, which I miss from your ministerial colleagues and that I miss at the Federal Chancellor. Tolerance means respect for the opinions, values and behaviour of others. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you look more closely at your policy – especially those of recent times – you can see: Of tolerance there is not much to see, especially when it comes to dealing with critical people or critical institutions. This is reflected in your dealings with high schooling: Your dealings are intolerant, up-to-date and undemocratic! [[Abg. Scheibner: Go, go, go!]] This is also evident in your dealings with interests, first and foremost with the Chamber of Labour: Your dealings are intolerant, up-to-date and undemocratic! And this is also evident in your dealings with Members, with Parliament: There too, Mrs Minister, your dealings are lifted and partly undemocratic! I just remember the committee meeting, where you, Mrs Gehrer, answered only those questions that were pleasing to you. All other questions have not been answered! This has already been criticised by my colleague, Mr Muttonen. Tolerant, Mrs. Gehrer, you have dealt with Dr. Seiel in particular. That's where I have to ask the question: Is it your understanding of tolerance to be tolerant only to people who are close to you or to the government parties?- Oh, my God! I would like – especially today on the International Day of Tolerance – that the government, and above all you, Mrs Gehrer, as Minister of Culture, do not easily deal with values such as tolerance and democracy, but accept, respect, respect the diversity and freedom of expression, and that you are committed to doing so.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e7898	The next item is the speech by Mr Christ. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e7916	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I also take a position on the budget chapter of culture. Mrs. Federal Minister, you are right if you speak of no one being condemned, but you either seem to have missed a lot – or you are fighting with a very pronounced form of denial of reality, because the Causa Art History Museum and Director Seipel is not a pre-conception, but in reality the real continuation of Steven Spielberg's Indiana Jones film template. For example, the “standard” writes: forgotten travel, incomplete balance sheets, criticism of the Court of Auditors on almost every side. And what are you doing, Mrs. Minister, and the board of trustees? – They do Seizel’s wall and say there’s nothing to hide from the daylight. Let’s look at what the daylight would “do not be afraid ”! The largest art robbery in the Second Republic is undoubtedly responsible for KHM General Director Seipel. Is that nothing?- Oh, my God! The security arrangements were for crying, the alarm system proved to be not properly activated – and the personal “adventure trips” Seiels in “Saliera” can be summarized under the title “Featured Fees Nothing!” The questions we have asked about the gaps in the security system of the KHM were answered with an impenetrable network of contradictions and legendal statements – or not. So far, no consequences have been brought – and I think that is irresponsible! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] According to the Court of Auditors' raw report – which is discussed publicly – accounting and management is rather adventurous in order to easily reword the Court's words. – If not to discuss, as you said, Minister of State Gehrer, this report is not at all if it is already available and is published in the newspapers. Exhibitions in Japanese cities were organized without permission. 60,000 dollars have disappeared in the jungle of the bookkeeping of the Art History Museum! - Is that nothing?- Oh, my God! Art items were bought without an authorisation. – Is that nothing?- Oh, my God! There is also an exorbitant increase in the cost of representation and administration, without any evidence, without there being any operational cause for it. – That’s probably nothing in your opinion! Not enough yet: Thousands of euros for travel expenses, for which there is neither evidence nor an operational incentive. – Purpose of travel and destinations – you hear and marvel! –: neither detectable nor explainable. The personnel costs explode; we have heard that already today. – And that's all nothing?- Oh, my God! But what are you doing, Mrs Gehrer? – Unfortunately, God's too little! as I have to say, but you cover every mistake of Director-General Wilfried Seipel by simply answering questions a little while or not at all. I'm wondering, What are the Austrian taxpayers supposed to think of the obvious friendship services and the proven waste of money in times of sick taxes, democracy reduction and discrimination of the social weak? As a competent minister, Mrs Gehrer, you are asked to take immediate action and take care of the necessary consequences. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e7998	Mrs Hlavac's next speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e8017	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have now reached almost the end of this cultural debate – and I am sorry to say again, Mrs Minister: As in the Committee, you have not answered the questions we have asked you here. Unfortunately, this is the undemocratic style of this federal government: The opposition will not be addressed! No matter what we say, no matter what we do: You just ignore that. It is not true that Seipel is only dealt with in the Court of Auditors' report. For a long time, we have had to see major problems in this area. The scandal around the robbery of the “Saliera” – the biggest art robbery in the history of our Republic – is a subject that we have to address here in this House, and it is also a subject to which we ask for answers. But there is not only the problem in the museum area, that Director Seipel acts extremely self-gloriously: It is also about the politics of museums as a whole. Above all, Mrs. Gehrer, you cannot constantly argue that the museums are distributed because: They still bear the political responsibility for what is going on there! This is our accusation to you, Mrs. Federal Minister: Our federal museums are one of the most valuable cultural institutions in our country, and you cannot simply lean back and say: The directors are supposed to do what and how they want! If the directors compete with each other, instead of working together on the occasion of important art fairs and using synergies, this is a very important issue for politics. The reason for the problems already raised here is undoubtedly the vanity of certain directors, but also the system of financing. If you only get a base budget and have to look at where the other means are to be taken, it is no wonder that the houses make each other competitive. The directors must try to present as public and advertising exhibitions as much as possible – others that would be equally valuable and exciting, but that are not connected with such brilliant names, will then be resettled. For this missing policy, Mrs Bundesminister, you bear the responsibility!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e8065	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Grossmann. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e8083	Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ms. Federal Minister Gehrer, your ministry bears the additional title ‘Future Ministry’, but this is completely wrong when you look at school policy in general and the budget chapter on education in particular. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Objection to the ÖVP]] The school system in Austria does not equal social differences, but strengthens them! More and less, the performance criteria are crucial to whether a young person can or cannot obtain higher education qualifications, but they are more and more the social criteria. When you look at the budget, you can see: This is a continuous continuation of social segregation! For example, the funds for student support are stagnating; the funds for support at school events, but the number of families that slip below the poverty line is increasing as a result of your policy! If you think that a sports week costs an average of €360 per child, then you might be able to imagine what that means for some families – even if there are several schoolchildren in one family. Afternoon care can be provided at the planned staff level – despite otherwise sounding statements of intent on your part; Ms. Minister – not to be offered. The same applies also to support lessons that children especially need from difficult social conditions; but these children are obviously not important enough to you. – On the other hand, these children are also important to us Socialists and Social Democrats, and therefore we are quite specific to the fact that the educational and thus future opportunities of young people depend exclusively on the parents' wallet. – This is your ideology, not ours.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e8135	The next item is the speech by Mr Brosz. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e8153	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! I wanted to take a brief look at the request of Dr. Brader, Dr. Partik-Pablé on ‘bilingual education for deaf children’, with the title this proposal is not really clear what it means. I guess it means: Education in voice and sign language. In contrast to the SPÖ, we will not vote in favour of this request by the Greens, less because of the text of the application itself – on which we could discuss – but rather it is about us having the discussion with you for a long time and having the impression that you could try to play out the possibility of using implants against sign language. If you read this request carefully, you can already find that, for example, the introduction states that for children with hearing impairments, if they have implants, “there is the possibility of gaining the same knowledge and professional requirements as their hearing colleagues”. That's what I'm asking you: Is that not true of the deaf with sign language? – You just have to look at the situation in Scandinavian countries in which there are a large number of academics who are deaf, but who have received very large and professional access with the sign language. – But that is not the case with us! Write Again You from ÖVP and FPÖ in your application that the sign language will continue to be the “most important language tool”. – It is almost embarrassing – given the situation that we have been fighting for decades for the recognition of sign language – that there is no right to sign language education. And then that comes in this proposal as if it were the state of affairs. The application itself – if one takes it neutrally and assumes that you are commissioned by serious scientists to review the possibilities of implants and sign language – could already be considered, only: The confidence that the ministry really values balance is so limited in us that we will not agree to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e8210	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur, Mrs Speciale, want a final word? - That's not the case. We are therefore voting on the opinion group VI of the 2005 Federal proposal. This includes Chapters 12 and 14 of the Federal Proposal in 650 of the Supplements as amended by the Special Report in 670 of the Supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. According to § 55 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the vote be taken on the motions for resolutions tabled at the time of the negotiation of the Advisory Group VI of the Federal Finance Act. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. We therefore come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ddr. Deweisers, colleagues and colleagues on measures in the field of education. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Brosz, Mr Ddr. Deweiser, ladies and gentlemen, about €5 million a year as an emergency measure to ensure the existence of non-confessional schools in free circulation. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who have given their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Broukal, colleagues and colleagues on the immediate programme for universities. I would also ask those ladies and gentlemen who give the consent to a corresponding sign. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Where is Mr. Broukal?]] – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Brader, Dr Partik-Pablé, and colleagues on bilingual education for deaf children. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who have given their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. (E 75.) Advisory Group IX Chapter 63: Economy and work
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e8292	We are now negotiating the IX, Economic and Labour Advisory Group. An oral report has been omitted by the Special Rapporteur. We are therefore entering the debate. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Moser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e8319	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! What is the relationship between business and work? – It’s a very simple one: If people are fine, the economy is fine. [[Abg. Bucher: Bravo!]] And: If people have work, people are fine. This connection, I believe, is a concern to everyone, and it should be so. But the economic policy pursued by this federal government is making people, and more and more people, worse. [[Abg. Wheeler: Matznetter wants yes...!]] We had the discussion about the pension cuts, we now have the discussion about the new health tax. This leads to more and more people getting worse. They are making a policy – and we have seen it lately – for the big corporations, and they are taking away the money from the small people, as we have experienced with the visual aids in recent times. But what's the connection? – The context is – and I really want to appeal to the Chamber of Commerce and to the ÖVP’s economic wings – that many small and medium-sized enterprises, many small opticians, will be affected by this measure in a sustainable way. They're going to lose their business again, they're going to lose additional jobs. You are driving more and more people into poverty traps with this policy, and you are responsible, Mr Minister! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One can also prove this development with key figures. Austria is muffled by economic growth, we have fallen back, economic growth remains very weak. Austria has had the highest unemployment for 20 years, over 250 000 people have no work. This affects demand. In particular – this will then be discussed in detail – are young people, women and older workers. You do not offer a perspective to this group, you are also responsible, Minister! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We will discuss another point. Your house of cards of power liberalisation has collapsed. [[Abg. Dr. Baumgartner-Gabitzer: But not at all!]] They have been responsible for energy policy in this country since 1986. Power lines are not built, there are supply bottlenecks, we are missing the power plants. You are also responsible for this, Mr. Minister! [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] If you continue to drive the game: We have a negative current account, although there is a large export dynamics. Despite this government, companies are able to perceive export opportunities. But many export promotion measures have not been used at all. € 25 million was estimated for special funding, € 8 million was used. Who's cashing here when it's not small and medium-sized enterprises? – Here is actually a question to answer. A next important point is that we look at the bankruptcy statistics. Austria is second worst within the industrialized countries. By far we have recorded most of the bankruptcys that have occurred in recent years, over 6,000 companies are going to go bankrupt this year. [[Abg. Böhm: That's not true at all!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch:... the red raunzers!]] Look at the bankruptcy statistics, it's black on white! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Red on white!]] The KSV is not a SPÖ-near organization. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Red on white!]] This game can be continued. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Red raunzer!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: This is not a game!]] [[Calls at the SPÖ.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] We've had the highest budget deficit rate for a long time. Austria owes €19 000 per capita. This is the highest per capita debt there has ever been in this Republic. [[Abg. Scheibner: Stop the fairy tale!]] What's the Minister of Economic Affairs doing? – The competent funding company Austria Wirtschaftsservice is still almost in the coma. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Hans Christian Andersen der SPÖ!]] There less funding volume is handled with more effort much slower. These are not figures from me; that's what the young economy says, that's what the investment bankers say, that's also other banks. [[Abg. Scheibner: Which one?]] This important institution is in the coma. [[Abg. Scheibner: Who says that? Cite that!]] A second important point [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Is that the health debate?]] The Federal Economic Authority regrets and suffers massively from personnel distress. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Federal Competition Authority, colleague!]] – The Federal Competition Authority suffers from a lack of personnel and money; one is not even able to pay the overtime. We know that competition policy is important for consumers. But there the staff will no longer be provided, there the money will not be made available, and this is at the expense of consumers. You are also responsible, Minister! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They also massively reduce the funding. Industry and industry have 2.2 percent less funding available. That is your answer to this crisis – of course, that can only be bad! In the debate, we will make many other points which do not work. But a connection is also valid under black and blue: When people get worse, the economy also gets worse. As Minister for Economic and Labour, you have the responsibility, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e8595	The next speaker was Mr Mitterlehner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e8613	Madam President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The best thing Mr Moser has done here was not very serious, because in fact the previous debate, the principle debate on the budget, has already shown that you are operating with figures that are simply wrong. [[Abg. Scheibner: That was bad!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Did you expect something else?]] For example, if you say that we have the highest unemployment for twenty years, you obviously do not remember the unfortunate figures of 1997 and 1998, which were absolutely much higher. [[Abg. Silhavy: Just like...!]] [[Abg. Grade: Selective perception!]] If you remember the discussion – Professor Van der Bellen is sitting here – as far as the deficit is concerned, then the net deficit in 2000, in 1998, was marginally higher in 1997, not in absolute terms, but in percentages. You should just show that differently. That is why I must say one thing to you, Mr Colleague: The economic policy of the Federal Government is not collapsed, but only your theses are broken down in the new economic programme. They didn't even stand up to media coverage for a few days and always had to be changed independently. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The second, Mr President: They misplace the contexts somewhere. Because if you say, “If it’s good for people, then the economy is good,” it’s the reverse of a connection that is exactly different: “It’s good for the economy,” because the economy has to work out something that you have something to distribute, “it’s good for people too”! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] What you are saying in this context is that old, false socialist economic policy must be distributed for the time being, and on a debt-based basis. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Who is “the economy”?]] I know, ladies and gentlemen, it hurts you if you need to hear this. But it is fundamentally wrong, and the falsification has unfortunately also proved in recent years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I want to go where we stand. Where are we? – The economy is much better, not only in terms of economic growth in 2004, where we will achieve growth of around 2.0%, but also in terms of the mood of enterprises. [[Abg. Silhavy: Why is there the highest unemployment?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matz-netter]] This has been really better for the first time for three years. Why is that so essential? – Whatever you don't want to hear: Because growth alone does not account for less than 2 per cent, but it primarily uses the capacity, and then one sees that the revenues also have a significant impact on profits and can be seen there. Entrepreneurs shall ensure that they have full order books and then begin to invest in: Then they create new production units, then they create jobs. That's where we are now! In the autumn of this year, investment will rise again, not only through the increase in the investment premium, but also through the fiscal measures whose effect is already apparent. The entrepreneurs themselves appreciate this; we will present it today. Economic barometer Austria: 14 percent of entrepreneurs expect corresponding increases in investment, particularly in the last quarter of 2004 and on the other hand also in jobs. That is, the mood is good, the economy is fulfilling its responsibilities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is what I am with the Advisory Group on IX, and you, Mr Moser, did not say a sentence. There's the question: Does the state also create the right framework conditions? – Look at what happened in the export area: In 2002, export growth was 4.2 percent, and in 2003 1.9%. Then, together with the Federal Government, the economy has decided on a package of measures to increase export capacities and opportunities. This package is from 1. September 2003 to 31. It was implemented on 1 December 2006. What have we achieved – not only through this package – but also through economic growth? – We have achieved that, according to Wifo's statements this year, we will achieve around 10 percent of economic, no, export growth. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Economic growth...!]] – Economic growth would be even better. – You know that an increase of 1 percent in the export sector creates 10,000 new jobs. For example, we have increase rates with Slovakia 14.9 percent, with Latvia 19 percent, with Estonia 24.7 percent in the first half of the year, as measured by the comparison period of the previous year. What is very good about this action is that it goes first over several years, secondly, that not only markets that we already have are better processed, but also new markets are being opened up, and that this action, in particular, activates small and medium-sized enterprises which have not previously exported. That is why the Federal Government has created excellent, right conditions here. Second point: This year, based on exports, we have an increase of 2 percent based on investment. Next year, the following will be added: In particular, through the second stage of the tax reform, but also through the relatively good pay statements, the purchasing power of the population in the domestic area will increase. This is not my thesis, but that is the thesis of the economic research institutes. This is why there is also a corresponding support in the domestic area. The question is therefore: Is economic policy, especially Chapter 9, correct with its promotions and activities? - Yes! We set the right measures for the competitiveness of the site at the right time, thereby increasing growth and, ultimately, improving the workplace situation very surely next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e8768	The next speaker was Mrs Sburny. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e8787	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Mitterlehner, I find it interesting that the purchasing power argument draws at least now. When we discussed this two years ago when it was necessary, you were still deaf to this argument to invest something here on both ears. After all! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] They have praised the growth of the export economy. It is certainly true that this is an essential aspect, but one can already ask why funding in this area is then reduced in 2005. The reduction in expenditure in the field of economic support for exports by €16 million for SMEs is set out in the budget, and it is interesting that this is not at all disputed by the Ministry. What is claimed is that it is less because of the division of these funding for two years, namely 2005 and 2006. Nevertheless, the total amount is not so large, that is, for 2005 there is actually a lower funding, and this reduction of € 4.5 million is granted by the Ministry in a request response. That's why I'm wondering: If the export industry is so important – in which we might be of the opinion – why do you cut the funds in particular for SMEs? [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would like to talk to you about a field that is always busy with us, namely: What opportunities do SMEs and, above all, micro-enterprises, i.e. micro-enterprises, have to make use of funding at all? – That always gets us in the way. In this context, you have written in your answer, which is why it will be less: The breakdown corresponds to the expected progress of the projects. That is, you assume less is sought. This would be in line with the fact that small and medium-sized enterprises are very difficult to apply for such support. This has different reasons; in fact, it has two important reasons. One important reason is that SMEs generally do not have the time to deal with the complex requests for support. Small and medium-sized enterprises up to ten or up to 50 employees cannot use this elaborate process in different areas at all. This concerns both economic support and, for example, the contribution in the field of research and development. In the case of research funding, we also find that a very large part of the small and medium-sized enterprises in this field cannot operate because they are not able to apply for research funding, as the procedures are complicated and time-consuming and this time is simply not available in such a small company. A second important area is the information that comes to light, or the non-information. Small businesses are usually informed of the possibilities there are, in general, much worse than large businesses. This is partly because they are not even connected accordingly. Interesting is there a... [[Abg. Felzmann: That's not true at all! Look at the statistics!]] Interestingly, there is a document on SME research, which you might read once, if you are talking about statistics here. It is clear that local SMEs are relatively well represented, for example in the case of public procurement, but there are shortcomings in access to information. That is, all your beautiful homepages, your information that goes over the network, can only take note of and inform some of the businesses at all. [[New call for tender Felzmann]] The fact is that, in the meantime, it must be said that it is actually on the rise – it is still only 87 percent who have access to the Internet at all; according to SME research, not my numbers, that may be familiar to you. I just think that's too little. An operation in Austria that does not have access to the Internet, where all possibilities for research, calls for proposals and promotions also go over the Internet – that is just too little. From my point of view, some things will have to be done until the government's great broadband initiative in 2004 in a budgetary no-man's country of ultimately, I think, has found €20 million. This is definitely far too little to be able to speak here of an initiative. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In other words, the demand would be that you set up initiatives here and invest money in order to give small and medium-sized enterprises the opportunity to inform themselves accordingly and get access to the promotions at all. A second issue, which I would like to address briefly, because this is always a little too short in Parliament, is an EU directive which is in place, namely the so-called Services Directive, which is currently being discussed at EU level and which ultimately also needs to be ratified by the Austrian Parliament. The aim of this Directive is that it should be possible to provide services across borders within the EU, i.e. in the internal market. There are some questions which arise, or some criticisms, which we also expressed in the Committee last week and which also concern small businesses. The issue of this Services Directive is that businesses from EU countries, for example, can offer their services in Austria, which is of course not a problem. However, the problem is that the so-called country of origin principle is to be dealt with, i.e. that in Austria 25 legislation will apply in extreme cases, because the legislation of the country of origin applies. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] What this means on the one hand for workers, but also for our businesses, for example, when it comes to what skills are even taken into account, is not yet estimated. We have tried to discuss with Minister Bartenstein in such a way that he also presents this problem in the EU, but our request has been rejected, as has that of the Social Democrats. I think it is necessary to discuss this service directive very offensively. I think that through them on our economy, as well as on the workers, there will be a lot of injustice, including the related legal uncertainty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e8851	Mr Matznetter spoke on an actual correction.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e8875	Mr President. Mr. Dr. Mitterlehner has been in the replica on Deputies Mag. Moser claims that there had been more unemployment in 1996 and 1997. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: 1997 and 1998!]] I'm actually correcting: As anyone can easily read under statistical reports at www.ams.or.at – which has been available since 1946 – the number of people who have been identified as unemployed reached a historical peak of 240 079 in 2003. In none of the years before, a number of over 240 000 were ever reached. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e8915	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e8934	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Matznetter is not on the list of speakers. Why, I don't know, maybe he no longer enjoys the trust of his clubman or he may offer us a new economic programme again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Mr Matznetter, if you already come with a statistics, you will also say that there has never been such a high level of employment in Austria as those we are now and now. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I should like to comment briefly on the comments made by Mr Moser: “If it’s good for people, then the economy is fine.” Mr Mitterlehner presented his view. He said: “If the economy is good, then people are fine.” [[Abg. Far from it: Who is “the economy”?]] [[Abg. May. Johann Moser: Who is who?]] Since the position determines the point of view, we will probably not be able to solve this permanently, but we can agree that there is definitely a relationship between the economy and the people. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: There is no economy without people!]] On the other hand, I regard as false the statement made by Mr Moser, who claimed that the small ones would be taken away from the money, so to speak, to turn it into revenge on the big international corporations. I'm sure that's not right. You always have to do one, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, you have to see both tax reform steps together, because overall a lot has been done especially for small and medium-sized income recipients. Not for nothing, real income growth is at least 2 percent. [[Abg. May. Johann Moser: And where is the connection?]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I think it is unthinkable to mention statistics whose origin is unknown and which are not stated, and which are still obviously operating with false figures. In fact, I think it is unshakable what Mr Moser has done with the insolvency statistics. [[Abg. May. Johann Moser: That was the KSV, please!]] As you have done when you have to resort to such means, once again the helplessness of the opposition reveals. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The internationalisation of the economy today is a challenge, globalisation, fast-moving, the time of rapid change and certainly also the increasing competitive pressure. EU enlargement, as we know, is risky, but it also brings opportunities. These are challenges, and this federal government has also accepted these challenges. So now we can deal with the actual figures. Mrs. Sburny has done so in an approach and has found that there are fewer incentives. Mrs Sburny! Although there is an overall increase of 6.3 percent in the budget section we are now dealing with, I also tell you that it certainly does not come to the level of the funds alone. This alone is not a criterion, but it is also about the use of these means, the sensibleness of this commitment, the effectiveness and what is ultimately to be moved by the means used. It was also symptomatic that no one addressed international comparisons by the opposition speakers, with the exception of a comparison with regard to insolvency addressed by Mr Moser. Why Make You don't? – Because You would otherwise have to break out of this federal government in hymns of praise! [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] Of course, you know, in the 1990s, there was criticism of economic policy, social policy and budgetary policy on the part of well-known international institutions. This criticism by international institutions such as the International Monetary Fund has now turned into praise. There is therefore praise from the International Monetary Fund, but also from the OECD, which sees Austria as a model example of successful reform policy. [[Abg. May. Johann Moser: And what about unemployment? 270 000 unemployed people have never existed in Austria!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! The International Monetary Fund notes that strategic change in Austrian policy has made it a European country for reform. He highlighted the areas of public finance, budget, pension reform, the tax reform started – I say that the May 2004 report is – the single supervision of the financial market, modernisation of competition conditions and appropriate measures in the labour market and in research and development. [[Abg. May. Johann Moser: And where is Austria with its unemployed?]] Ladies and gentlemen! The aim of this Federal Government is to reduce the tax and tax rate to 40 percent by the year 2000. [[Abg. Riepl: Until when?]] I am very confident and we can also assume that in 2006 we will realistically reach a tax rate of 40.6 percent. Private households will have more money, citizens will have more money, the purchasing power and the equity of businesses will be strengthened. [[Abg. May. Johann Moser: What about the unemployed?]] You know, I would like you to make the international comparison of the unemployment rate. If you do, you operate with numbers that nobody knows whose origin no one knows. However, if you did so in an understandable way with the unemployment figures, you would find that we have the third lowest unemployment rate within the European Union. [[Abg. Silhavy: But there's no jobless thing about that!]] – I also know, Mrs Collaborative, that this does not help the individual unemployed. That is why there are also appropriate efforts by this Federal Government and through this government coalition. [[Abg. Riepl: But they are not visible!]] We see this as a task, and we will continue to put in place appropriate measures in the future. [[Abg. Silhavy: And where does this fall in the budget?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let me point out that the research and development quota has now reached 2.27 percent. This also makes us significantly better than the EU average. Exports and export increases have already been mentioned. So we are looking forward to a very positive future. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: But the applause was not very convincing now!]] You should not repeatedly use the necessary reforms, which you too know are necessary to create uncertainty and uncertainty among the population. You reinforce this by your actions. This government coalition, on the other hand, secures a good future.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e9180	Mr Bartenstein spoke from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e9198	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The budget chapter of the economy and work is a welcome occasion to talk about the situation of the economy in that country. The economic spokesperson of the Social Democratic opposition, Mr Moser, said, among other things, that we would be depriving the great international undertakings of the money. – He said it less politely, but I was just serving this division. That's what I thought: What have I read in the “Kurier ” today? [[Abg. Scheibner: I often think so!]] An internationally active company, the Voest, is undeservedly disrupted by one of your state captain's representatives by a country election campaign, writes excellent record results. [[Abg. Gradwelt: Who wanted to scrape this family silver?]] If Mr Koppler were still in the National Council, he would be very surprised at you, Mr Moser, that you were talking about these undertakings indirectly. An internationally active, highly successful steel company, which is successfully accompanied by the government, for example, in the field of CO2 certificates, invests a billion € this year, invests one billion € next year, writes record results and records record employment. Or did you mean another internationally operating company, the OMV? – A representative of the company is not far from here. – Did you mean the OMV, which also writes record results and is managed by excellent management? She is now a player between Black Forest and Black Sea, a company that has quite relations with the federal government in terms of its ownership structure, but also with investors from Abu Dhabi. Did you mean this company we're throwing money to? Or have You might mean Bank Austria, the company, which has not been sold by party friends, not from Styria, but from Vienna, to Germany in that case, but has really been hurt? – We now know: On the other hand, it would have looked much better. Bank Austria should have taken over HVB, that would have been the right way. - Did you mean it? 700, 800 million € result, an excellent company, only unfortunately put from the ownership structure from you into the wrong hands. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: How much tax do they pay you?]] Or do you mean Austria's middle class, who's doing well? Perhaps not all, it is not always good for all companies, but a clear majority of companies are doing well and we are doing something about it: tax relief and much more. [[Deputies Dr. Matznetter and Gradwelt: See Lannach!]] Mr Moser, Mr Matznetter and Mr Sburny: I'll stick to your regulations. You said: Let's talk about key figures, let's talk about statistics! I have a paper in front of me, which I would like to refer to briefly. It is nothing but the summary autumn forecast of the European Commission – Mr Matznetter, not ORF online of anything, but the autumn forecast of the European Union. [[Abg. This was the AMS!]] These are the eight parameters, eight sizes by which the European economy is classified. I can briefly refer to these eight characteristics of the economy, each of which is Austria's value for 2005 because it concerns the year 2005, we want to look together into the future, into an even better future for the country. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Attention! Grasser started that way too!]] The present is good, the future will be even better. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's it!]] First growth: After all, growth is everything. That's what you've seen in the meantime. Growth creates work and jobs, we want that, we need it. The upswing is there and hence the growth. The European Commission predicts Austria 2.4 percent plus next year. Mr Mitterlehner, you said it's going to be 2% this year, that's probably going to be it. 2.4 percent – European average: 2.3 per cent, so Austria is one tenth above it. The unemployment rate: Mrs Silhavy, I fully agree with you, every unemployed person, every unemployed person is too much. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: How many were it in the nineties?]] . I know, Mr Matznetter, in these key figures, which speak in our favor and at your expense, you will always be particularly nervous and especially noisy, but I have the power of the microphone with me and let me at most motivate you and certainly not give me any thought. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Make an honest comparison!]] We are not talking about justice now, Mr Jarolim, this is another time on the tapet. – Let us stay on the issue of unemployment rate! According to the EU Commission, Austria's forecast is 3.9% for next year. Openly, my people tell me that this is a little optimistic. I say that too, but I refer to you the values of the Commission, so 3.9%. On the other hand, the EU of 25: 9.1 percent. Inflation rate, money depreciation: Austria next year 1.8 percent, European Union 2.1 percent. Employment: Austria is an increase of 0.7 per cent, the European Union is also an increase of 0.7 per cent, so we are probably European average next year. I would also be pleased if we were better, but we are not according to current forecast. A parameter that has been underestimated in Austria and elsewhere in recent years is productivity development. Austria's productivity will increase by 1.7 percent next year. The productivity within the European Union of the 25 – and this is where the rapidly growing new ten Member States are involved – shows plus 1.6 percent, in the European Union of the 15 only plus 1.4 percent. So we are much better in this area again. A very important size, Mr Moser, is investment, because those who invest today will create value added, growth and thus jobs tomorrow. Austria next year plus 4.0 percent – by the way, after plus 6.2 percent in 2003 and this year plus 2.9 percent. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: And what does the refinancing rate look like?]] The European Union plus 3.8 percent. Private consumption expenditure: Granted, it is important for us that we grow by about 10 percent in terms of exports in this year. This may also be a bit the internationalization offensive, but these are largely the excellent achievements of our exporting companies. In the annual average it will probably be plus 10 percent. Nevertheless, it would be right for me to increase consumption expenditure even more this year, but it will rise by 1.2 percent. [[Abg. Sburny: People have less money!]] Next year it will be plus 2.1 percent. In the European Union plus 2.0 percent. [[Abg. May. Johann Moser: This does not apply to the unemployed!]] Last but not least, because this is a budget debate, the eighth parameter – I don't let anyone out here, that's completely transparent and you can have it and copy it. You can also download it on the Internet. The budget deficit will amount to 2.0 percent in Austria – here our Minister of Finance is a trace of optimism. We expect that we will be able to stay just below, but that is the Commission's forecast. European Union of 25: 2.4 percent, a deficit also with the European Union of the 15. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! No one has taken the truth for himself, neither I nor you in particular, Mr Matznetter, but the European Commission is for us in its publication something like a very serious source of data and statistics. Of eight key parameters of the economy, Austria is seven times higher than the European average, in one case at exactly the European average. I believe that this is a very good starting point for a budget debate on the Economic and Labour Chapter.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e9398	The next speaker was Mr Eder.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e9444	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I mean, you really should put a lot of things right here in so far as you delicately distinguish between theory and practice. Of course, the Federal Minister rightly referred to a number of Austrian companies which make good profits and which are also hearty companies. Among other things, he also mentioned the OMV, which he believes is also a very modern property structure and has also called a owner, namely Abu Dhabi. I can say that when Abu Dhabi came to the OMC as another owner, the Social Democrats still ruled. I would like to thank you for expressing this praise to us here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: And why do you reject this now?]] Mr Federal Minister, if you listen to me on the subject of economics, you have the impression that you are listening a little too little to the people of our country. The reality is that very, very much is saved, but not because people have so much income, but because people have a certain fear of the future. There you should try to put people in fear of the future. We also note very strongly this fear of the future that domestic demand is, unfortunately, falling significantly. You can see and hear this at any Christian child market, at any business you enter, and the business people tell it. This is not a good situation, because if there is less demand for goods, then it naturally has to do with the individual's job again, and we may be producing more unemployed again. If there is always a comparison with international unemployment statistics, then we must compare the same thing with the same thing, because we have not included in unemployment statistics certain people who have no work either. All those who are in training are not in the unemployment statistics, including all those who have gone to early retirement in any systems are no longer included in these statistics. I therefore believe that we should look closely at this, but we should not be too euphoric in these comparisons. If you – Mr Hofmann as one of my previous speakers said this – are very pleased about the highest employment we have ever had, then that may be all right, but you also have to bear in mind that workplace is not the same job. Let us look at where people and how people are employed, how many are in part-time – especially women – and what the income situation is. [[Abg. Bucher: We have a record of employment!]] Despite employment, Mr Hofmann, there is poverty among people, despite employment, people can often no longer pay rents, despite employment, people cannot pay for electricity prices and energy costs in their households. [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Of course: hundreds of thousands of people are affected!]] Here it has been announced that everything will be cheaper when deregulation comes when the free market comes. What has happened to deregulation and the free market? – Prices have not been reduced, we have higher prices today, there have even been taxes on energy, so that poor households can no longer afford heating in winter. So it doesn't look so rosy and so good with economic policy in our country. If you look at the “profile” – I don’t want to read it any more – from Monday on page 68, there is that voestalpine chief Eder or Sanochemia founder Frantsits, for example, and so on, even remember to leave the country with their businesses because we need a more business-friendly economic policy. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein:... Eder?]] - He's not related to me. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Eder wants to go? Androsch too? Eder and Androsch want to go?]] Mr. Minister, these aren't renommies! We should also look at this, and we should try to get these companies to stay in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e9546	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Tancsits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e9565	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to talk about labour market policy in terms of economy and employment, but I would like to say a few words about my previous speakers from SPÖ because, I think, it is remarkable what access this party has to economy and work. This is where Mr Eder will lead us as a new indicator of economic and labour success. ==References====External links== [[Abg. Eder: But these are the “little people ” you are always talking about!]] This is where Mr Moser, the SPÖ's main speaker, tells us about this chapter, about the overall chapter on the economy and work, that there are too few planning positions and too few overtime in the competition authority. – A truly interesting parameter to measure economic and labour market success in a country. There are capitulators going through where too few expenditure is being spent everywhere, too little bureaucracy, and then in the same breath where money is actually taken into control for investment, where there is actually a relief from too many expenditures. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not think that Austria's economy and labour market deserved to receive this strange zigzag course of SPÖ as a scale in detail. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Exactly! Bravo!]] I would like to highlight in the field of work the total expenditure of € 4.5 billion for this essential area in which we can implement economic success for the people of this country. This includes once again our successful unemployment insurance, the classic unemployment insurance, with as little as possible – every individual, every individual too much – and as short as possible stay in unemployment. I would just like to mention the order in the middle of the international comparisons you know about, but to avoid them. There was about last week in the "Tyrol daily" the report that under 254 EU regions of Tyrol and Salzburg take second and third place. These are the successes of a labour market policy based on a successful social market economy. However, I would also like to mention the structural changes and structural reform, particularly under Minister Bartenstein's ministry in the labour market service, where step by step – I say openly – I am not yet 100% satisfied with the courses in all areas – the conversion of unemployment management into a customer-oriented service company. And if 35 000 to 40 000 people are already in further training each and every time, this is clearly a success and a positive contribution to the labour market. At this point, I would also like to thank the 4 200 employees of the AMS, who do good, for helping to create a correspondingly positive labour market situation in Austria. However, I would also like to draw attention to the implementation of the major reform of the labour market, which we have decided together this year, with a modern system of availability, with regard to the distance from the workplace in terms of time and occupational protection. We have understood them in such a way that we meet the new requirements, but that these changes do not occur until after a time, because about 70 to 80 percent of the unemployed no longer do, because they have been mediated before. It's a very important area. In conclusion, I would like to ask whether we are right in labour market policy, then I say yes. It is not only the international comparison that gives us the right, but also the right to qualify, to set up quick mediation and to set up an economic and financial policy that enables work and additional work.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e9622	The next speaker was Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e9647	Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps Mr Tancsits would like to answer something directly to Mr Jarolim. I'd like to make it available for a few seconds. I do not intend to interfere in the dispute, whether Abu Dhabi is the right partner and who found him. To be honest, I think that's pretty irrelevant. And I would also think that you could think about whether it was really good to sell shares just like the OMC to Abu Dhabi. But to push the debate so far would lead to another field. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] [[Abg. Steibl: Perhaps the Federal Minister wants this!]] I would like to make it available to you, Mr Federal Minister, here as in other cases, which you might also have to discuss, for example, why the situation of motivation in the Federal Government is changing so quickly. VA-Tech? It would also be interesting to discuss this. I heard something else 14 days ago or three weeks ago. My topic, Mr Federal Minister – you can breathe calmly or you can’t be calm, but listen hard and attentively – is, of course, primarily the labour market. [[Abg. May. Molterer: The Minister doesn't look particularly hard on it!]] I am absolutely not satisfied, Mr Hofmann, that you are saying that we are now the third best. I still remember very well with regard to unemployment: There you were proud, and you've been bragging that we're the best. They have been made aware by me and others that we had times in Austria, because we were indeed the best in Europe, and only by narrowing Europe to the European Union have you managed to assign Austria again alternately to second or first place. But the countries that were not in the European Union in the 1990s – as I now mean not the candidate countries, but Switzerland and Norway – still have better labour market data than Austria. But this is not a proof that it is so good for them to be outside the EU, but it is a proof that it alone proves nothing. We were top riders in Europe and are now gradually losing track of terrain – which is also evident from labour market data. The unemployment rate is rising, you should not hide it, and the employment figures – please do not give me the keyword – are increasing only because the number of children's benefits is taken into account, because the number of children's benefits is higher than ever the number of pensioners who have been included but who have actually been employed. [[Abg. Bookbooker: Employment is increasing!]] [[Abg. Steibl: They were also included!]] And that's the point. The present servants are included. It also includes unemployed people who are in training. They're reported as busy. [[Abg. Steibl: That was always the case!]] [[Abg. Bucher: Was that not the case before?]] Ladies and gentlemen! It was the same before. Only – next, Mr Bucher – we had mentioned this in the nineties – you mentioned 20 000 people in training, now it is 50 000 people. Taking on a success, but if you know the quality of the trainings – which has not yet been talked about, only by the colleague Tancsits – then it does not look so good anymore. The trainings have been shortened, the trainings have been diluted, on the other hand the training participants count... – Calm down [[Abg. Steibl: You can't just talk about the last three years! What has happened in the last ten years?]] Please! Now I'm talking. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You can do an intermediate call, that doesn't bother me at all, but then I should be able to understand it. But if you talk continuously, I can’t understand it anymore, then it’s just a “airy carpet! ” I'm sorry. - Please, you wanted to make a call?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Steibl: I don't want to bring you out!]] - You can't bring me out. [[Abg. Steibl: But you have forgotten what has happened in the AMS in the last 20 years when you are talking about the quality of the seminars! ... at the trainings! You can't just talk about the last few years!]] So I tell you one thing – and I say this in the knowledge of the situation in the AMS; I do not want to push this into the shoes of Mr. Federal Minister and say, only he is responsible, I am far away from such children: That's got system for years! The quality of the training measures has been diluted. And that's clear, because if only – and now I'm at the budget – the same budget is available, but instead of sending 20,000 people into training, then quantity increases, but it also reduces the quality of the courses. And that is the point, ladies and gentlemen. There you should also practice a certain degree of honesty in the presentation of numbers. Then we can continue to talk about whether what has been done in the training field in recent years was really useful. I dare to doubt, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, that it is really useful to convert people into training courses. First point. Second point. I really dare to doubt that it is good to exclude, in fact, large groups on the labour market from training measures. You've now focused on the elderly, the 50-year-olds, and on the whole boys. In the middle, care offers are de facto excluded from training. That's a huge problem. They will probably feel in a few years that these qualifications are missing. I am not saying that the Minister should also finance this from this budget, but the quality would become even worse. I'm just pointing this out. We have experienced several times in recent years that a group has been taken out, for example, older ones, then you have seen, then the problem is increasing among the disciples. Now try the double attack, now take the disciples and the older ones, and think something will happen already. Well, it's gonna get caught in between. You assume from the concept that they can best claim to be in the labour market. Only: That's not true! – Mr Federal Minister, you have the opportunity to reply. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] Nevertheless, the topic of the Chamber of Workers. There you were quoted in the “Kurier ” on Sunday in a steep template. They demand savings and contributions from the Chamber of Labour. [[Abg. Silhavy: This is really scandalous!]] On Saturday Mr. National Council President Khol was quoted. He would like to set up a study group to monitor the Chamber of Workers, which will examine whether the Chamber of Labour is spending its money properly. And then he says to that, the slug: The whole thing must not give the impression of a punishment action. It has to look like it's just an objective test. Mr. National Council President Khol probably kept thinking about the phone and said: Go, dear Martin Bartenstein, how about that? The Federal Minister takes over and says: By the end of the year we want to have an examination, and the Chamber of Labour should present proposals for savings, because savings are already given. Now I would just like to ask one, Mr Federal Minister, that you question or give an answer: Where to save? In recent years, the Chamber of Workers – and I can well remember – has done so with the votes of the ÖVP and with the votes of the Greens; we and you have been involved in it – have increased legal protection and legal advice. I'm in favour of that. It was a step forward. The legal protection and legal advice of the Chambers of Workers cost a lot of money, that's soft, but it's successful. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] And the only area where one could say right away is the amount of the workers' chamber's budget – this is also known by Mr Tancsits: You can save there. Can I hear something, Mr. Federal Minister? Do you really want to save on legal advice from employees? Do you really want, Mr Tancsits, to limit the offer made by the Chamber of Labour, for example, to precarious workers? The new self-employed are not represented by the Federal Chamber of Commerce! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] - I'm right. Mr Mitterlehner, the Federal Chamber of Commerce, that was the key word. I think it makes sense for free servants, precarious employees of all other kinds, to be advised by the Chamber of Labour. [[Abg. May. Tancsits: Do you really want to claim that the Chamber of Labour should get a share of the highest contribution base?]] Clearly, they don't pay any contribution to the Chamber of Workers, but that they receive advice to a limited extent, I think well. I think that's a step forward. Mr Mitterlehner is not quoted with the limitations and the savings. But before you, Mr Federal Minister, respond so directly to an appeal or to a call from the President of Parliament, Khol, so to speak, in order to avoid the appearance of a punishment action, say now that the proposals where can be saved must be made, please tell us where the Chamber of Labour should save. We do not have these savings, because we cannot save on legal advice and legal activity and also on the public offer of the Chamber of Labour, which is good and qualified. It would be in the wrong place and at the expense of the self-employed and partly also independent precarious workers.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e9854	The next speaker was Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e9874	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Oellinger, you can always philosophise about the purpose of the Chamber of Workers' Circumstances. If money is made available – whether by state governments or by the Federal Government – then you want to somehow say what the money is used for, as it is everywhere in life. [[Abg. Oillinger: Why not also at the Chamber of Agriculture?]] And if you do sensible things there like the educational check and so on, if you grant travel costs subsidies for those who have a lower income and who receive it from the workers' chamber, then that is all right. Of course one could examine this, but everyone would want some automation, for example in increasing the maximum contribution base. Withdrawing and automatically having an increase without having to do anything about it, one would probably also approve of it in all other areas. This, of course, has advantages for the Chamber of Workers because it does not want to act as a bitter if it wants to increase it, that is clear. But we can discuss it another time. I must say one thing about the labour market policy that you have done, Mr Oellinger: The active labour market policy has been vehemently forced by this Federal Government. If last year's active labour market promotion has been paid €767 million, this year with 784 million and next year's even with 796 million, I have to say: Shut up! We have forced active labour market policies, which benefit above all many women. This has also significantly increased the efficiency of labour market placements. Individual care plans have been drawn up for each job seeker, which was not the case in the past, and a qualification offensive for younger and older workers has been implemented. – That’s just to put a few things right here from this pult. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The 2005 budget is marked by the tax reform of this year and next year. This tax reform with a total relief of €3 billion supports Austria's economic location and improves the conditions of competition. In my opinion, tax relief is now at the right time. Exports last increased by about 11 percent. The purchasing power has been strengthened in Austria. The future opportunities for today's and future generations have also been secured, and of course new jobs have also been created. The aim is to have full employment, to secure work and income – in my opinion, these are the most effective means against poverty and social exclusion, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] By introducing a modern group tax, Austria is an example in Europe; the reduction of corporate tax from 34 to 25 percent also ensures the economic location. If it is often criticised, especially by the social democratic side, that would only benefit the large companies, the corporations and the capital companies, then I must say one thing: 1.4 million workers are employed in capital companies. And if you say that the small and medium-sized enterprises do not benefit from it either, then I have to stop them from benefiting from the preferential taxation of the profits not collected. [[Abg. May. Kogler: If they do any!]] Of the 5.9 million taxpayers in Austria, 2.55 million are no longer paying wages and income tax through the 2005 tax reform. This is a huge relief for Austrian citizens. ==References== January 2005 you pay up to an annual gross income of €15,770 no more taxes at all. The general amount of deposits is also included in the wage tax rate, and the... – All of this belongs to the budget, ladies and gentlemen and social spokesperson of the Social Democratic Party. [[Abg. Silhavy: This is the wrong speech, Mr Dolinschek!]] [[Abg. Riepl: And how big are the pension losses?]] One cannot separate one from another, and the tax reform is the essential element in this budget, which strengthens purchasing power in Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I know you don't like to hear that, but even with the single-earner discount, improvements are being made. This is 364 €, and there is a surcharge for the first child of additional 130 €, for the second one of 175 € and for each other one of 220 €. This measure benefits the Austrian families, ladies and gentlemen! This tax reform... – I am speaking to the pensions tomorrow and tomorrow when it comes to the harmonisation of pensions, Mr Reheis. [[Abg. Reheis:... bed and breakfast!]] For pension harmonisation you'll hear more from me tomorrow, and you'll see that we're also making nails with heads here.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e9994	The next speaker was Mrs Silhavy. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e10013	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! If Mr Mitterlehner has shown us today what he understands as a business, that was actually very revealing. He said: If the economy goes well, then the businesses consolidate, then they also look at profits, then they invest, then work is created, and then people are fine. I think Mr Mitterlehner is confusing business with companies, and that is the point. When we talk about business, we're talking about all of us. I would like to put my attention on that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Tancsits.]] - Of course! The economy also includes workers, or do you think that Dr. Bartenstein has made everything himself? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] Of course, entrepreneurs also belong to the economy! [[Abg. Riepl: The shoe straps he made himself!]] Yes, that's right – but I really wanted to talk about labour market policy. Federal Minister! In October, we had the highest unemployment figures for 20 years – confirming these broadcasts from your own area. Your statements that all of this is not pleasing, and the international comparisons are of little use to us. Since you've been in the government, we've always been through the same thing: They say we're sorry, the sole of the valley has gone through – and then the next month's figures show that there are again higher unemployment rates. This cannot be the right policy, and we reject this policy! Federal Minister! If you look at your budget estimate, then you can't say that there's something active below it, because if I see you're using the 2005 budget to account for 7 percent unemployment, I wonder what's going on. You actually intend to do against this unemployment, because this is a mere declaration of bankruptcy that you are delivering here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It may be quite nice, Mr Federal Minister, if you give prizes in the course of “Fit for Future”, namely for apprenticeship training, but if you say to my question, how do you intend to promote apprenticeship training, there are no additional funding measures, all this has to be covered by the existing budget, then I wonder: Where is the future of youth from your perspective? As the Federal Minister responsible, you do not give the youth any perspective! Another point that is also interesting: I asked you how you intend to provide for 2007 with a view to reducing ESF funding. They answered me: At the present time, it cannot be predicted how high the average dot on Austria will be. In reply to another question by Mrs Lapp, you will write: It is true that the promotion of the qualification of employees in small and medium-sized enterprises is an important and very successful priority in the framework of ESF actions and that this is provided for in the drafts again. Yes, do we know anything now or do we know anything or do you just hide something from this house? This is what we are asking because you do not want to take care that these less revenue will otherwise be covered by the budget. I am very surprised, however, if you, as a responsible minister, confuse a statistics of the AMS, which Mr Matznetter had as a document, with one of the ORF. As Minister responsible, if you could already distinguish AMS and ORF, I would advise you, Minister. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Your attitude to the Chamber of Workers is also very unfortunate. You are the chief supervisory authority of this Chamber of Workers. Now I'm asking: What criticism do you have if you respond to Mr Khol's call as you have obviously responded? When we talk about financial means: The Austrian Chamber of Commerce has at its disposal € 580 million, the Chamber of Labour, which provides very many self-employed workers, has at its disposal € 270 million. And when we talk about transparency, Mr Molterer, we are talking about the transparency of the agricultural chambers, because there is no transparency at all! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] All in all, you are making a policy at the expense of workers, and that is what you continue in this budget chapter.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e10095	As the next speaker, the honourable Member's head is mentioned.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e10142	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am going to allow Mrs Colleague to address the matter of chambers later on. Mr Moser said: “If it’s good for people, then the economy is fine.” The Chamber of Commerce, on the other hand, is currently paging the slogan: If the companies are fine, people are fine! They have previously tried to divide the economy and the people, and they have said that we do not think the workers would be there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] I say that there are both entrepreneurs and employees in the companies. Maybe you missed that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I say to you about these two comparisons: This is not about the dispute “Hen or Egg? ” I say that the Chamber of Commerce is right, and only the Chamber of Commerce is right. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. One: Of course! Who else?]] For a very simple reason: Of course, it's right that people should be fine, but when can people be okay? Not if a government gives them anything or decides any laws, but simply and simply when the economy in a country is so good that you are able to earn so much in the entire economy that it creates prosperity. But not the other way round: People are doing well, and that is why the economy is doing well! It can only be reversed! That seems to be a little more than the question, what was there at first, but that is an ideological question. One must first make the money that people want to use for consumption and for their prosperity. That is the big difference in our view, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They also criticised the fact that three, four years ago, when the economic weakness began worldwide, your proposals were not followed. What would you want to do? You would have wanted a new debt if you would have decided to discharge at a very wrong time. Every economist will tell you that this will not do anything in a time of global economic weakness. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. May. Hoscher.]] At this time, we have made economic packages that have stimulated investments that have supported educational investment and research investment. And what is the result, ladies and gentlemen – the Minister has already said –: Economic growth next year will be 2.4 percent and thus higher than the EU average. The unemployment rate is lower than in all other countries, inflation is lower, productivity is better, investment is higher. What does that lead to? – First requests from foreign companies for investment in Austria: plus 21 percent. Successful completed investment projects: plus 55 percent. BMW invests, Infineon invests, MAN invests. Ladies and gentlemen! I think the foreign entrepreneurs seem to have far more idea of economic policy and economy than SPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e10215	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Weinzinger. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e10233	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mr Kopf has just made a really interesting creed, but the fact is that there was not much to be said about it. The creed number one corresponds to the following: The Chamber of Commerce is always right! [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the ÖVP.]] Number two: The economy is the most important! The government can decide what it wants, it doesn't matter anyway, because it matters to the economy. Number three: That the economy is now growing again is nevertheless the merit of the government and not the economy. It knows who likes it! Mr Kopf, this was more of a culinary enrichment than a debate contribution. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But I wanted to talk about three topics. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The culinary on it was the polite description of the salad he had just served. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] [[Abg. Großruck: The word “culinary” has been inappropriate!]] – The word “culinary” may have been a bit too demanding for some, but I still use it, after all, we are in the House. [[Call at the ÖVP: Green stew does not taste special!]] Let us first talk about unemployment. Some comments on the subject have been made by previous speakers. What remained hidden – and here I quote an APA message, not a press release from the Greens – was that the increase in unemployment is exclusively at the expense of women. In other words, unemployment has now become female. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] – You hopefully know the statistics, the relevant homepage, where you can read all of this, has already been recommended. In case you haven't done it yet: www.ams.or.at. Since May, we clearly have the trend, consistently, every month – you can follow that – that unemployment among women is rising and rising, while men are already falling in the same time period – fortunately, I say –. The shift in unemployment to women cannot be taken in vain, but that is exactly what you are doing, Minister of Labour. I hope you feel responsible not only for the male workers and workers, but also for the female. But then you have to do something urgently. What you have done in recent years is well known: The AMS funding has been dramatically reduced in all areas where it would have been aimed at promoting women's employment by training et cetera. The trainings and what they essentially serve, my colleague, Mr Oellinger, has already described. [[Abg. Großruck: The AMS has never worked as efficiently as now!]] In addition, this federal government opens up new holes, creating unemployment for women, tag child care money, so that we do not only have the pre-existing situation that women from 40 onwards are considered to be difficult to find on the labour market, that young women, as well as young men, especially highly qualified, recently no longer find jobs, but also the situation that women can lose their jobs out of the children's break or can only re-enter in part-time and minor jobs. Mr Bartenstein, what are you doing? Do you really want to fight against women's unemployment? I tried with interest to find out, research: Whatever you invest in work, it is obvious that it does not work to address the unemployment of women. [[Abg. Oillinger: A little curserel!]] Yes, three times in a row, the course “How do I apply for it?” is true, especially for women. Point two: Let us talk about economic promotion; You are also Minister of Economic Affairs. There, too, you would have a broad field of activity for women's promotion if you wanted to do this, for example, promoting entrepreneurs inside. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. There should be a lot more. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Felzmann.]] The only problem is that they are even more difficult to do, especially in the start-up phase. However, the competent representation of interests is blind when it is intended to be a negative perception. So it would be much more inside. I can only give it to the Chamber of Commerce, if it is always right, to take care of the entrepreneurs inside. This is because we would again be with the many SMEs and the new self-employed or self-employed who are in a precarious situation. In this area, there is a large proportion of women, but in the Chamber of Commerce, both men and women in this sector encounter closed doors. For example, Mr Minister, you would have had a huge chance to bring in gender-specific correction elements in the tax reform, where the companies were anything but empty. In the context of economic promotion, they could make an economic over-promotion for companies that are fully exploiting the potential that is available. And we know from studies – there are studies with the sounding title “Women, the unused potential in the economy” – that there are plenty of Brachial, pardon: Potential is broken. [[Abg. Großruck: “Brachial”, that’s true!]] – This was a beautiful joy’s experience now, because at least little happens in this context. So there's a lot of activity. Minister, what are you doing? You in this field? - Nothing! Third point, currently: Minister! What to do What about the definition of what constitutes serious work? – I find it strange that the hard work is almost already presented as a “social case” from the outset, because only the Minister of Social Affairs should be careful to draw up the definition. In any case, I hope that he will observe the heavy work of women to the same extent as that of men, because so far women are not sufficiently able to benefit from the heavy-worker regulation. Mr Bartenstein, I can conclude. Bring your own gender budgeting quote, because you are really far ahead in all fields, if I may give you faith, because you write: The Women Promotion Plan of the Federal Ministry of Economics includes the anchoring of the Gender Mainstreaming – hurra! – the equality of women and men in all political and social matters – beautifully written, correctly – as a universal principle in all areas of activity of the Federal Ministry. Ah yes – I'm waiting for where. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e10377	I am now interrupting the debate on the IX Consultative Group so that the urgent question requested can be dealt with at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Request for urgent procedure by Dr Josef Cap, colleagues in the Federal Chancellor concerning the threat to the fundamental consensus of the Second Republic by the Federal Government (2315/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e10404	We come to the urgent debate on the written question 2315/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e10581	I give Mr. Dr. Cap as the first questioner on the grounds of the question referred for a preliminary ruling pursuant to § 93 para. 5 of the It is not allowed to exceed 20 minutes, the word. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e10605	Mr President. High house! It is indeed unfortunate that it is necessary to make a urgent request of this kind here, namely on the question of the threat to the fundamental consensus of the Second Republic by the Federal Government. [[Members of the ÖVP refer to empty seats in the SPÖ banking series.]] . You have the question before you, it contains a explanatory text and short, but, as I believe, very precise questions at the end of this text. We hope that the Federal Chancellor will also give a concrete answer. As you know, the strength of the Second Republic was that, unlike the First Republic, we have found a basic political consensus. Of course, the establishment of Parliaments was of great importance as well as the way of dealing with each other in these parliaments, as well as the establishment of the social partnership which has contributed decisively to the building up of prosperity, wealth and security in that country. That was the political system in Austria. Just next year, when we will hold big commemorative celebrations: 60 years of Second Republic, 50 years of state treaty, ten years of accession to the European Union, for which many have, by the way, fought side by side in this House, it is necessary, as I believe, to have in the light of the events, to sit on the one hand in the Austrian Convention and to think about whether there is a new constitutional order, and to try to bring new basic values into this Constitution, and on the other hand, there are daily political steps of this government that contradict common basic political consensus: This is a process which, of course, is not trusting and which does not correspond to the basic political consensus of our Republic. This starts with how to deal with the workers' chambers. They will remember the time when SPÖ had the absolute majority under Federal Chancellor Dr. Bruno Kreisky. [[Abg. Scheibner: There you have always agreed.]] I can't remember talking about the Federal Chamber of Commerce contributions at the time and about how much percent you could lower them. I can't remember having discussed Raiffeisen's cooperative law at the time. I can't remember talking about the Chamber of Agriculture. I can remember, however, that at the time the position of the farmers became another, the pension insurance of the farmers became another. I can remember that. This was a liberal society for which social democracy was established at the time, and not a society in which one works with dictatorship, repression and, ultimately, with political and material threats, as you do. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If I remember correctly, even the clubman of the ÖVP Stephan Koren has become president of the Oesterreichische Nationalbank. Today, even if you don't have a black party book – model Lower Austria, I just say, extending across Austria, under the title: Dear Erwin, dear Wolfgang. [[Abg. May. Molterer: What about Tumpel Gugerell...?]] This is clearly stated here. It was the invention of the liberals that one even began to discuss the chamber environment. Whenever the Chambers of Workers represented the interests of their members and had to say unpleasant truths in public, you have started to discuss the chamber environment. [[Abg. Scheibner: If there are truths!]] That is, in fact, undemocratic! That's the job of the workers' chambers to do that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Riedler: Party Policy Ads!]] When in the “Kurier ” of the 10th century. It says November, the Federal Chancellor has made the critics in the ÖVP club “a snail”, then I think it’s the case of the ÖVP club when snails feel comfortable there. I can only say that fact is that I believe this quote from the “curier” even where it was rendered, it should not be given more money to the Chamber of Workers who make propaganda against the government, that is, this representation of interest. But if the President of the National Council also thinks that one should be watching, then I must say that it is not a coincidence – I have mentioned this here – that the Federal Chancellor has his office in Clemens Prince Metternich's former room. You know, that was the repression specialist of the old monarchy, who suffocated every comb of liberalism in the germ. This symbolism has something for itself. We've always proved that can't be a coincidence. But if you want to start to observe the work of the Chamber of Labour, and then come to the conclusion when too much criticism of the government is there and the result of the observation is that it is critical of government, then you have to act as a legislator and here you have to take legal action against the will of the members of this Chamber who are glad that their interests are represented, then I must emphasize: That is what is at the bottom of the Second Republic's consensus. That must be done. Let us take note of this. We will not accept that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Then we finally come to a very current point, namely the question of how to deal with the Austrian high schooling. Klubobmann Molterer was my knowledge representative in the Austrian high school, as well as colleague Ikrath and Mr President. There will be some who were mandates in the Austrian high school, I too. I was in the central committee, I was in the main committee. There are certainly also some of us who also worked there. We were active in the Austrian high school because we thought it was necessary to represent the interests of the students, but at the same time it is also a model that there is a general political mandate and that the Central Committee of the Austrian Higher Education is of course also directly elected. Because it's finally another legitimation when you're directly elected. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] Mrs Brinek, please concentrate a little. You may still be a little fogged by the Pragmatization! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] But I would like to tell you that this is really a matter of political... – I take back “needed” and say: influenced. [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] This is really about the legitimacy of high school. I have to tell you that if this is shaken, then it is ultimately to be said that the high school can no longer effectively represent the interests of the students. You have to take note of this! And then we go back to the time when the SPÖ under Chancellor Bruno Kreisky had the absolute majority. I can remember that there has been an absolute majority of ÖVP students, except for those universities in which the Ring of Freedom students – at that time there was still the ring of Freedom students – had a significant part of the vote. [[Abg. Scheibner: You don't have to point out to me!]] Yes, can you remember that there would have been an initiative by SPÖ alone government at the time, just because there was an absolute ÖVP majority there to shake the representation of the high school or even to abolish the direct right to vote?- Oh, my God! [[Prolonged condolences with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] – It didn't even exist! The strength of the time, i.e. in the 1970s, was that one has tried to represent, as a government and especially under the conditions of the absolute majority of all Austrians, to seek consensus in the country and, abroad, to represent the interests of Austria, namely all Austrians. There were no illiberal trains in those days. [[Abg. Scheibner: Incorrect!]] Remember, when it came to the reform of criminal law, how much time has been taken here in Parliament, how it was negotiated, how really it has been tried to include the opposition in the process of lawmaking! Do not apply for an initiative in a night and fog action, such as the High School Act, and do not allow it to be reviewed! Mrs Brinek, it was you, so I looked at you so keenly before. In a night and fog action as an initiative proposal so that there may not even be an assessment by those affected by it! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That wasn't a night and fog action!]] This attitude is undemocratic! You have to take note of that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: What an understanding this is: a right of Members to call it undemocratic! Mr Klubobmann, learn the Rules of Procedure!]] No, Mr. Klubobmann Molterer, the understanding is: We want the differences – no! – work between these two forms of government policy and government style. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's a good keyword! That's what we want to do today!]] No, that's what we're trying to do! We want to open this up because here is the social-democratic model of democratic, liberal, open society and of truly democratic dealings with the political competitors. [[Abg. Dr. Sonnberger: It's about the future, Mr. Cap!]] You have the model – I would say so: from top to bottom! A bit of Metternich’s influence, a little authoritarian, a little illiberal, sometimes also undemocratic – in any case where you do not fit to threaten with material reductions, to implement them and to reduce democracy. Mr Bundeskanzler, this is the model for which you are responsible! All these initiatives do not come without your knowledge – as I hear you are active in the club meetings of the ÖVP in a significant coordinating role: Nothing happens inside what you don't want. This is a very tight organization that you have in the club! You don't succeed in the government, that's what it's all about. But at least the club should be organized in such a way if the government is not already organized. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] - No, don't be tired here! At the club meeting, be tired when the Chancellor holds the presidency! With me, you can easily get tired, I'm just the opposition speaker here! The emancipation exercises please again tomorrow at 8 o'clock in the morning, but not here now! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I have to tell you that there are two different designs of politics, of society, of handling. We are on the basic consensus of the Second Republic – you are no longer on the basic consensus of the Second Republic in some questions! And it's damn hard for you to find space within this basic consensus at all, just like you do with important institutions of our society... – Yes, immensely, I can only say, is the next, namely the way you deal with the main association of social security funds. [[Abg. Dr. Sonnberger: This is immense!]] Today in the “Kurier” on page 2 are They have been rightly criticized for dealing with high school. – I am surprised that you are involved in former mandates who have no relation at all at all at the time when they were mandated there. But that must be done with their conscience and with their political understanding. On the question of the main association, where you have sat down and said: We are now simply making a legal arrangement, because we do not want there to be a real representation of the trade unionists, the chamber officials! We don't want all of this! In fact, we want to find a law in which we finally have a majority as a government! Although on the one hand there are three million employees and on the other hand 300 000 employers, although more contributions are being made and the others make fewer contributions, that is all meat! I'll sit down on the tearboard and say, How do we get a majority in that? - That's it! Thank God we still have a constitutional court. Now you should listen a little bit more crazy. The Constitutional Court is a very important institution, because it is right and proper for you to knock on your fingers. And there are not a few of the projects that you have set up that have been withdrawn by the Constitutional Court, including what these, I would say, are: political intervention in the main association of social security bodies by the majority of the government. That's where the Constitutional Court has spoken, and now you have to go until 31. In December 2004 a constitutional solution was found. Fact is – exactly! –, the new assessment draft for the reorganisation is of course the same again in the final effect! [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: That's it!]] A few of your lawyers just sat down and said, How can we do the same thing we have done before, namely that black and blue have a majority in it, because we want to exercise a majority in it?- Oh, my God! All of this is more expensive, although it will no longer bring insurance companies to health, we will not be able to do anything in any way, although it will not have any "sworn" influence at all; where we are spending all the money, we still do not know, but we want the majority in it! This is our understanding of the exercise of power. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] And that's where I tell you: This is a break from the basic political consensus that you are doing! And we will not accept that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In reality, the model of self-management is a thorn in your mind, in reality it is a thorn in your mind that there is simply social capital to which you have no access! In fact, you want to privatize in as many areas as possible, so that private capital has access there, so that it is no longer socially managed! – Yes, but then tell the population openly and do not act hidden over the back door here! At least a little courage! If you have – what have I read in the “Kurier” on page 2 today? – make “a conservative revolution” if you already want this society to become more illiberal and undemocratic, then stand down and tell the Austrians in two years: That's our design of society! We don't want an open society, we don't want democracy anymore, we want less democracy, we want more access to the collective, to the lives of individuals, we have a different idea of society! - Then say it! Then start as a program and don't try it over the back door! Do not talk on the one hand in the Austrian Convention of Constitutional Drafts and of new ways in the context of constitutional reality and then take these steps in day-to-day policy! There you will encounter the resistance of a large part of this house and also the population! With what you're doing, you're no longer in the trend of time. I would say you're about 40, 50 years late with this attitude, but you still want to force it all. In any case, we will be voting against it, I can really promise you today, especially as regards the question of the main association of social security funds in the final effect. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Since we are currently dealing with the social field, I would like to return to the meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs, which we recently had. So I'll tell you... [[Abg. Steibl: You weren't there at all!]] Do you know what's bothering me? – If you don’t get to the brink of the whole pension harmonisation project, then negotiate in time, then see that you’re getting done, then see that there’s a better government management! [[Abg. May. Molterer: Were you in the committee?]] The problem is, there is no proper government management on the part of the Federal Chancellor, and there is no proper department management in the resorts either. The FPÖ Members suddenly recognized the extent of the burden in its full dimension in the Committee, as I have been told, during the Committee's meeting. [[Abg. May. Molterer: You were not in committee, Mr Cap!]] I wonder what have these Members done in recent months? What information has the Ministry of Social Affairs done? What has actually been done to enable all the Members of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to know or to know what will be decided here? – This is about cuts of up to 20 percent, and some are sitting there like the honourable Member Hase and saying: My name is Hase! Jessas, there will be shortened; after if I had known that earlier! That's where we have to negotiate! [[Abg. Scheibner: Is this a new representative of yours?]] And then the best comes: If there is already a meeting of the Committee – and this could be done with some other committee – then it is the right to have the amendments served in good time. Of course, this is not the case in time, of course there will be a number of amendments in the second reading, of course, this is a consideration of the Committee, where I say: This is really undemocratic, and this is not a respect for Parliament, which we also have to ask for and call for from a majority of governments here in the House. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The last point in the question concerns the mass re-occupying in the field of executives and the Ministry of the Interior. [[Abg. Großruck: He didn't ask any questions at all!]] – Yes, the questions are these four! Take glasses afterwards, read through! I'll tell you something. It is precisely on these four points that I have now referred to here that the question is whether these democratic institutions should be safeguarded, for example, by constitutional means. But I come to the last point, to the mass occupations in the Ministry of the Interior – a very sensitive area of public security. As we know, since 1999, the security situation in Austria has worsened dramatically, both from the number of offences that have increased and from the intelligence rate that has fallen. We hear every day that there should be reforms in the police sector. – The reforms are there, but these are not reforms, these are mass new occupations! Now we hear 5 300 posts are to be re-occupied – 5 300 posts! Is this a new political light so that you know who will have what functions to wear in the future and what functions may not have to deal with? What's that? – The experiences so far have become suspicious, because one of the upper blacks in this government is the Minister of the Interior, I have to tell you, and this can be clearly explained and clearly demonstrated! They don't need to paint anything in the agricultural sector, because everything is black. If you want to make a call, you can save it. I know what you wanted to say. I'll give you the answer. It'll be faster. That's your mentality! And I must tell you that it is justified to worry about democracy in Austria! [[Call the ÖVP:Questions?- Oh, my God!]] I'll tell you something. Don't believe that this can continue! Do not believe that we will continue to continue our cooperation in the Austrian Convention, if you are at the same time carrying out this democracy reduction here! We won't play there – believe us!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e10990	In reply to the question, Mr Bundeskanzler, Dr. Schüssel, spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e11008	High house! I should like to refer to the urgent question, first of all to the 2005 spring. – Ladies and gentlemen, I would have liked to invite you, or would like to see you present the programme. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: You didn't invite us!]] You would have seen that we do not at all value seeing this one-sided. For me, history did not end in 1970, and I hope you did not start with 1970, with Bruno Kreisky, and end with the end of the last century. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] We deliberately want to highlight the full spectrum of the Second Republic – present and future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Now a few minor corrections to the general appellate law, which was contained in the justification of the urgent question, such as that the appeals at the Constitutional Court have been explosively increased. I can only refer to a few facts here: In 1995, there were 46 standard examination applications, 47 in 1998, in this period we are now talking about, 2001, there were 45, in 2003 there were 57 standard examination applications. Of the 21 requests made by the Socialist Group, only one of them has since 2000 – one of 21! – led to a complete withdrawal, seven of which have led to cancellations in quite a few individual points. And that is completely legitimate. For this we have a supreme court, which has a watchful eye to respect for the rights, the constitution and the laws. And that's good, ladies and gentlemen, and we'll stick to it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That's a little pretty dyery, Mr. Federal Chancellor!]] Again, only a few facts, perhaps to dissuade the accusation that we are now in a pitfall. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That was unscrupulous!]] We in Austria – as well as in the past decades – actually have reason for optimism and stand very well. Just take the balance sheet, the dry facts since 1999: Since 1999, we have had 30 000 unemployed people in Austria, but 200 000 more jobs. [[Contradict with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Is that not a reason for optimism? - I think so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Remember that we have had 42 000 additional companies in Austria since 1999! This is the success of the Second Republic. They'll question you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: On the matter!]] And when we talk about the workers and employees in Austria, we also compare the wage sum. [[Abg. Neighbors: A beauty mistake is the high number of unemployed!]] In 1999, the total wages amounted to €82 billion, today €12 billion, namely €94 billion. That's at least 15 percent! A pity? – No, but we have become and remained one of the most stable and secure in Europe. [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter:... as a percentage of GDP!]] As the exports reached: In the time you put us under control, we cannot rule, the export from Austria has increased from 60 to 90 billion €, at least plus 50 percent! – Ladies and gentlemen, not a cause for regret, but a reason for joy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. May. Johann Maier: And what about the unemployed?]] As you always come from the SPÖ with the pension examples, only a single number: The expenditure on pensions – I am even leaving the officials aside now – in Austria has increased since 1999, compared with the next year by €4 billion, from €19.5 billion to €23.5 billion. And that's where you want to blame us for social cold? 4 billion € more for pensioners in five years – and you're talking about social cold?- Oh, my God! Mr Cap, this is not serious – and the public should know that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Sburny: Unfair behavior in social things!]] Now to the so-called exorbitant cuts. Mr Cap, I have been negotiating this with the social partners for a year. Fritz Verzetznitsch is sitting here, and the other social partners, Herbert Tumpel, Rudi Schwarzböck and Christoph Leitl, also know: The demand, desire or incentive for a “corridor”, i.e. after an early retirement, after a pension before the jointly disputed age of 65, came from... – No, for everyone when we are there. [[Abg. May. Worm: For men!]] [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Worm: For men!]] – No, 65 stands out for everyone! Let me finish this thought! The suggestion to introduce a “corridor” did not come from me – you will confirm it, Mr President – that was a wish to encourage the social partners. [[in the direction of the Abg. Verbatim]] And the social partners have not disputed how to calculate the subject matter of insurance. That's it, please, no reduction! Life expectancy for a pensioner is beyond dispute. For example, for an average man aged 65 in retirement, she is over 18 years. The only question is: Does he want to have paid the pension that he owes for over 18.5 years or more than 21.5 years? The sum of the pension paid is by the way, so that you tell the truth, not a reduction for the one who went three years earlier, but even slightly higher, because at least the 13th and 14th. In addition to the salary. Therefore, the life board for the “corridor pensionist” is 1.5 percent higher. [[Abg. May. Worm: Ask the pensioners once!]] Therefore, Mr Cap, do not worry about the many million pensioners or those who are just ahead of the pension! It has been your proposal, and we have implemented it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Now on the specific questions. Question 1 refers to the Chamber of Labour. – I can’t really understand why you’re so upset here. In 2000, the government programme said that we call on the social partners to also make a thoughtful contribution from their side to reducing the additional wage costs. That's where you can read it! I'm also here about this... – I'm sorry, but you're just pretending to be an invading discussion. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: That doesn't make it better!]] The discussion has a beard that lasts three times around the table. Four and a half years have been talked about! The difference is already spectacular: At this time, the Chamber of Commerce has reduced the entrepreneurship contributions by €150 million, from € 516 million to €360 million. To this end, it has reviewed all the savings potential it has given and has set down the reduction of the volume of Chambers by legislative change in the Chambers of Commerce Act. For comparison: The Chamber of Workers – and this has nothing to do with the quality of the Chambers of Workers – has not done so. In 1999, the Chamber of Labour had 241 million euros in revenue. More than € 287 million will be available next year, i.e.: 46 million € or 15 percent more, not through a member's decision or referral, but through an automatic approach. Ladies and gentlemen, I would strongly recommend: If we are serious about social partners, then every organisation should also be in the interests of its members – for from there the money comes, we take no action, there is no government plan on this issue – sparingly dealing with these resources. The discussion that one can demand sparingness not only from the state but also from one's own organization is, in my view, an absolutely meaningful one. That's why it's all about nothing else! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] On question 2: the Austrian high school. After the 2002 UOG, many things have changed, as Members know better than some others. It has moved the centre of the decision to the universities. There are all the important decisions today – on the budget, on the posts, on the allocation of funds, on the priorities. That is why, of course, local representations are to be strengthened, whatever happens. [[Abg. May. Posch: Yes, yes, of course!]] – If you say “naturally!” anyway, it’s all right. I have here a decision of the chairmen's conference of the University's representatives of 17th century. ==References== The following resolution has been adopted: “An adaptation of the § 30 of the Higher Education Act 1998 to the increased number of higher education in universities (...) and the change in the student contribution distribution so that“ in the future not 70, but 90 percent of the students’ contributions are to flow to the university’s representatives and the Federal Representative 10 percent. – Now they have 30 percent. What is now being made in the request – not a government initiative, but a request from Members – is not even the full fulfillment... [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Bures: You have nothing to do with it! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] – You asked me, so I can argue, right? What is being made in this application is not even the full implementation of what university representatives themselves have required, but a partial implementation by simply spending more money on the ground. Overall, the high schooling is not available for less than one euro. ÖH has available € 6.26 million in 2004 and 2005; the ÖH contributions amounting to € 14.86 per student and semester continue to go to the Austrian high school in full in future. Now I'm gonna tell you something: If you think it is totally undemocratic to change the representations, I ask: Please, is the Chamber of Labour organized undemocraticly? It works exactly according to this principle. The Land Chamber is directly elected, and the Federal Office is elected indirectly. Is the ÖGB undemocratic? [[Call the SPÖ:No!]] - I don't think so. There the works councils are elected. They have the sub-union unions, and there the Federal Office is elected centrally. Is the Chamber of Commerce undemocratic? – Members shall vote on their section, on their collection. The Innung elects the state representation, and in total there is a common representation at the federal level. [[Abg. Mandak: But the difference is that you set it by decree!]] It is the same with agriculture. Here, too, the national representations, in which case the universities, are elected, and they then have an indirect further right of representation. So with permission... – This is not insidious! [[Abg. May. Johann Maier: This is unscrupulous!]] This is the truth, Mr Deputies, to understand. I'm sure you'll have to do that. It may not fit you; it may be. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I also understand that if one wants to criticize this, but I am acting – in order to defend the Austrian social partners – that the representation that is proven at all other interest groups should suddenly be undemocratic, as you are doing with the accusation of the plans of Mr Brinek & Co. If that is so, then that means that the other rules of representation in the social partners are unfair, and that is simply not the right thing to do, Mrs Deputies. [[Abg. May. Worm: Over the heads!]] Now to the police, question 3: The Federal Government has planned one of the very large administrative projects for this legislative period in the combination of four guards: the Federal Security Guard, the Criminal Officer Corps, the Federal Army and the Customs Guard. This has, by the way, been followed by a consistent basic consensus between all political parties. I was able to see this in the consultation of the year 2003. And the merger, apart from this basic decision, has been prepared for a whole year, starting in March 2003. The objectives were: slimmer management, slimmer management, merger of management and administration levels, use modern working methods and consistently implement resources: to strengthen the fight against crime, to transport monitoring and to other risk management. We also have a security package with almost €40 million. There are 150 additional executive officers this year and now 800 more for the year 2005, and just as consistently we are moving forward with the integration and modernisation of the guard bodies. This is carefully discussed with those concerned and is perfectly prepared. There is a constitutionally sound basis. – By the way, I don't understand why you have to make a urgent request. The draft has been in Parliament for a long time and is actually being dealt with by you in the committee. However, what is necessary – and that is, I think, very useful – is: We reduce the number of commanders from 45 to nine, and according to today's legal situation, it is necessary that the functions be advertised, not at federal level, but exclusively at these country commands. This means that, in all countries except Vienna, up to seven commands are merged into one. These arrangements, the planning arrangements and various other things that come there are limited until December 2005. All of this is in Parliament, so there is no reason for a urgent question. Question 4: the reform of the main association. . I should like to remind you that the Constitutional Court has not removed parity, because parity is important because the contributions are also made in parity by the insured and the employers. This has not been lifted! The reason for the withdrawal was that neither the Annual General Meeting nor the institutions of the insurance companies had a right to participate in the appointment of the Board of Directors and the assignment of tasks to the Executive Board. The provisions of the Constitutional Court have been taken into account in the draft which is now before the Council of Ministers and which has been adopted. I therefore assume that, on the basis of the decision-making now taken, nothing stands in the way of a decision – with hopefully a broad majority. Last point: The question of constitutional anchoring is simply a matter for me to discuss in the Convention. You will have to assess whether there is still a need for additional protection on the legal safeguards, which are undisputed – social partners, the ÖH, the main association. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e11447	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having an overall speaking time of 25 minutes. Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Darabos. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e11471	Mr President. Federal Chancellor Hohes Haus! Her answer to our urgent questions was provocation and clearly shows that it was very urgent to address this issue here in this House. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] Your answer was precisely borne by the spirit we criticise here: Anti-democracy and not full reconnaissance and transparency. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It would also be very interesting if you were to take up your speech at the beginning of your speech and referred to labour market policy to discuss this issue too. It would be just as unpleasant for you. They spoke of the “Jammertal. ” – Yes, Austria is in a bad valley! [[Lively ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] I grew up in an Austria that has developed upward in European comparison and worldwide comparison. I grew up in an Austria where there was equal opportunities. I grew up in an Austria where there was a future. Since 1999, Austria has been developing downwards in all key figures. That's what you have to do with your policy! They take Austria in many areas of the future, and above all you take the dignity of older people as well. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Coming to the real topic: What's right doesn't necessarily have to be good. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] – That’s right, I just heard from over there. [[towards ÖVP banks]] – This was said by a minister who was praised for the Constitution. And he didn't say it in a dispute about a law where there might be a red-green opposition that fights this law, no: He said so in connection with a constitutional court judgment. He questioned the highest instance of this republic with this way of commenting. And I'll tell you quite openly: In any other civilised European state, this would have been a sole reason for withdrawal for the Minister of the Interior! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is particularly true in an area where democracy can be handled very sensitively! But that seamlessly integrates into your understanding of democracy. At the beginning of Schwarz-Blau, 2000/2001, the handling of democracy was still masked. They fled in marketing bubbles. For example, Minister of the Interior Strasser has always spoken of a red and white-red ministry. As all Austrians know, the ministry is now deep black in color, which is unlawfully black in color. Legally deep black colored! You have it black on white from the Constitutional Court: The removal of highly qualified officials in the security field has been unlawful. That was the first step of a negative and a very peculiar access to democracy by this black and blue federal government! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is no time to list all your errors in this area of democracy, just one thing: the undemocratic coloring of the main association, which the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany is trying to remove so salopp from the table. This must be broken on the tongue: It is not those who have the responsibility to represent the insured, but a small minority has to represent it! That's a democratic principle? – Our democratic principle is not that! [[Abg. Rädler: How does Bank Burgenland look?]] In addition to these infarctions, the Ministry of the Interior has also adopted a series of judgments of the Constitutional Court which have shown a peculiar attitude towards your government's access to democracy, such as a twofold abolition in the field of civil service. The Minister of the Interior is still, although he has already gotten it black on white from the Constitutional Court, not ready to pay civilians adequately. He is not willing to implement judgments of the Constitutional Court. This is your access to democracy? – This has already become political everyday. [[Abg. Grandruck: Do you believe what you are saying? - He's holding himself to shame!]] It's hard for someone to get upset about this. We will increasingly address this, even after today's meeting. They have tried to strengthen access to public broadcasting ORF. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch:... Shadow cabinet!]] Unfortunately, you have succeeded in many areas of God. They have smashed and broken the ÖBB, with the intention of colouring politically there in your mind. One law after another was repealed by the Constitutional Court, starting from the accident pension tax, through the ambulance charges, to the Civil Service Act Novelle. I understand that you do not like to hear the expression ‘social cold’, but it is precisely these judgments that the Constitutional Court has lifted that one sees the social cold of your government work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The culmination of this whole discussion is now the loud reflection on the “punishment” – under quotation marks – of the Chamber of Workers. Mr Bundeskanzler, you yourself have spoken about criminal proceedings in this House. You said that you could say anything unpunished here, that you were not right at all. That is, as it were, the attitude you are attaching to and the one that is attaching to your government. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Go, please!]] [[Call the SPÖ: An original quote!]] Since here you wipe the discussion about the Chamber of Workers also salopp from the table and say: Everyone has to save!, then I would like to write you the following in the main book: The Chamber of Labour is not a priority critical of government, but it is critical of government because the measures you take are restless – 44 burden measures! – those people that the Chamber of Workers has to represent. It is the worker's most direct mission to represent these people, and it will not be put to death by you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You may, if you are talking about economy, think about it – even at the beginning of the so-called thought year that you have called out – if it would not be possible to make a more economical economy in terms of your expenses, of which you will at least have 72 million euros flowed for propaganda purposes. [[Abg. Großruck: It would also be good for you if you had a thought!]] In the ÖH Act, you also say salopp that this is a very democratic decision. – Very “democratic”, if 20 percent of voters now vote according to your novel, after your reform, representing 40 percent of students. [[Abg. May. Worm: “Bravo”! “Super”!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Who says “bravo! ”]] The students have a right to a national representation! Its policy follows two basic patterns: Critics starve – that is the basic pattern number one – or, if it fails to reverse election results, where they are not accepted, by a new majority finding. They will remember Figl and Raab in the commemorative year of the ÖVP. – I say quite openly to you: Figl and Raab have had democratic access to Kreisky and the other German chancellors, who were set by the Social Democracy. But they endanger this basic democratic consensus in Austria. I would ask you and call on you to reconsider your attitude and return to democracy in Austria at the beginning of the 2005 thought year.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e11681	Mr Oellinger spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e11713	Mr Bundeskanzler, you have said in your speech that since 2000, the number of employed workers in Austria has increased by 200 000. – That’s wrong! A correct view of the number of employed workers in Austria, regardless of the period of comparison you take – 2000 or 2001 compared with 2003 – shows that between September 2000 and September 2004 the number of employed workers rose by only 16 700. In September 2000 the number of self-employed workers – I can also predict – was 3 099 594 in September 2004 it was 3 116 294 adjusted by the number of child care workers, the present and the civil servants, because they are not actually employed. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Just like the oillinger would like to!]] Even if you produce a different number of comparisons and compare the year 2001 with 2003, the balance sheet will not be better, but worse: Between 2001 and 2003, the total number of employed workers has fallen, ladies and gentlemen, and you should take note of this without any excitement. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e11767	As the next speaker, Mr Dr. Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e11786	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Klubobmann Cap, there can be an arrogant power policy. [[Abg. May. Worm: Yes!]] No one is allowed to acquit himself from the outset of this accusation, and everyone has to see how he can deal with this problem. [[Abg. May. Worm: That he is not caught!]] But there may also be an arrogant opposition policy, and I would ask you to think once about what it is all about. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Exactly!]] Do you know who said that? – Your long-standing clubman, our current Federal President Heinz Fischer. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Exactly!]] And that is the basic question: how we deal with each other, with which means we conduct policy. How do I get to that? – Of course, we have Members around the clock for discussions to be available, we have to put up with the discussion and we have to take responsibility for what we are doing. But please leave our families, our children out of the game! [[Abg. May. Molterer: Exactly!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Yes!]] Something has happened several times now, as last Friday. [[Abg. Grandruck: This is a scandal!]] The Committee on Pension Harmonisation is being negotiated; at home the family is visited by Mr Donabauer, the company of colleague Mikesch is visited, and there are political actors – I can't say otherwise – responsible to the ÖGB for our families, our children for what we are doing in politics! [[Abg. Scheibner: This is a naughtiness!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Awesome!]] [[Abg. Großruck: This is a cleanery!]] Is that the basic consensus? [[Call the ÖVP: Unheard! Unheard of!]] Is that the basic consensus we want together? Yes, a tough fight here in the house! [[Abg. Parnigoni: Take responsibility!]] We take responsibility, but I ask you: Let my wife and my children out of the game when it comes to the politics we are doing! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman and Bravorufe at the ÖVP.]] Of course, we are saying that there is a strong representation of interest. Of course, the Austrian People's Party for the Chamber of Workers, for the Chamber of Commerce, for the Chamber of Agriculture – we are also the only political group to set up presidents in all these chambers! And that means “people’s party” – you only often forget that – and, of course, the People’s Party is also a member of the Chambers for compulsory membership. But I'll tell you one thing: Membership of duty also requires a special responsibility for those who are equipped with this vote! And that's why we stand up to it when panic is done. [[Abg. Bures: The people are you wurst!]] Look – I'm just calling you an example now, and I could call you a lot of others – A young woman – Claudia Numerer is called here – says she wants to have two children, but that would mean to her: minus 36 percent. [[Call:Schiffer]] The planned cuts are anti-female. – We reject this when the Chamber of Labour spreads the exact opposite of the truth when panic takes place! Please, it is unique in Europe, ladies and gentlemen, that in the future four years per woman can be considered as a pensionable reason. [[Abg. Bures: There the children must not be in the world again!]] As long as you were in the government, you never thought of doing anything in this area for women. That's the big difference! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Bures:... not for a woman who has a child today!]] You must note that on the one hand we are of course in favour of strong legal interests, but there is no one under a fall in glass, and also at the Chamber of Labour, criticism must be possible, yes, it is necessary to criticise it when such panic is committed. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer:..., that's right!]] - That's not right! The example with the minus 36 percent is drawn by the hair and is wrong! [[Abg. Bures: prove it!]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen, next item: In recent years, hardly anyone in the Republic has had such an increase in resources that he has automatically received, such as the Chamber of Workers. There are 30 million € in addition since the year 2000! And whoever has at his disposal € 270 million a year in the Chamber of Labour, he doesn't sleep on a hunger cloth, ladies and gentlemen! That is why I say to you: Don't twist the facts! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Call the SPÖ: Don't twist the facts!]] The opposite of that is the Chamber of Commerce! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I don't know if you know: The Federal Chamber of Commerce has saved €150 million in recent years, and just today in Upper Austria, the Chamber of Commerce has announced that it will save €1.7 million. [[Abg. Bures: How many members does she have? How much money...?]] Why do I tell you that? – Because we all, political parties as well as public interest representatives, are invited to deal sparingly with the resources available. I'd like to tell you one thing: No chamber is in a party's possession! [[Abg. Marizzi: Eh not!]] In the Chamber of Workers, however, it is often forgotten that there is also a President Dinkhauser, a President Fink, especially when you have to send representatives from the Federal Chamber of Labour. [[Abg. May. Worm: What did the Dinkhauser say...?]] These two then lack a decisive qualification criterion: This is the SPÖ party book, I tell you! [[Abg. May. Worm: What did the Dinkhauser say...?]] Best example: the ÖIAG. Five employees' representatives must be sent. You can only guess once which party the five representatives come from. – After all - understand all from the SPÖ! [[Call for disapproval of the ÖVP.]] Is that extra-partial representation? – Certainly not, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Nine...!]] Mr Darabos! I don't know if you know the personalities I'm calling you: Do you know Mrs Tumpel-Gugerell in the European Central Bank? Do you know Dr. Zöllner at the Oesterreichische National Bank? Do you know the highly successful Dr. Ruttenstorfer in the OMV? Do you know Dr. Zilk in the Federal Government Reform Commission? [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] It was not the party's book that was crucial to them, but it has put them in the respective position! This is the only criterion that applies to us. Only: In your world, you are hard to deal with this procedure, Mr Darabos! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Many didn't think of you!]] [[Abg. Bures: Do you have anyone else on the list?]] I could continue the list for a long time, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Read on!]] Only, you see: The red light is shining here, and I would like to say one more thing very clearly, because it is very important to me. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Keep up the list! Keep reading! Who's the rest of the people? – That’s incredible: All four have come to his mind! Four living!]] Ladies and gentlemen! You are not bad when you raise demands in individual papers that may lead to the future. When I read your pension paper, the “Fairness Pension for All Austrians”, I see that you naturally address pension harmonisation in it. [[Abg. Bures: You didn't read it at all!]] You, Mr. Gusenbauer, have acted together with Parnigoni and have called for the merger of the Gendarmerie with the police. [[Abg. Parnigoni: What do we have? What do we have?]] There is only a big difference between you and us: They create demands, but when it comes to implementation, you lack strength, courage and courage to do so. This is the big difference to us: We are implementing the necessary reforms properly and making these important reforms! You, on the other hand, stand by the fact that you raise demands. – This is the big difference between you and us – and in view of the way I have experienced you here in the House, I assume that this will continue to be the case in the future. [[Abg. Bures: Don't tell fairy tales! You don't believe that!]] That is why I say to you: The only reliable partner for the Austrians when it comes to implementing necessary reforms – which are not pleasant in the meantime, but which are necessary and correct – we are! Unfortunately, you have neither the strength nor the courage to go along with it.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e12299	Mr Vergestnitsch spoke on a point of order to make an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e12320	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Lopatka has here made the claim that representatives of the ÖVP “Polit-Agiteure des ÖGB” threatened family members and also addressed employees. [[Vivid calls at the ÖVP]] In fact, it is true that a Mr. Emmerich Wahringer – a Du-Known by Mr. Donabauer – was at his house, did not find him there and asked his wife to tell him something. [[Abg. Head: Yes, yes, yes, yes!]] [[Lively calls of call and ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] The same has happened to the second Member. In both cases, they are du-Known, I still hold that! [[Abg. Grillisch: Was that with Mrs. Mikesch?]] If you only understand the free mandate here in the house – we have a different understanding: that we also talk about it among the citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e12382	Mr Parnigoni spoke in favour of a further actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e12403	High house! Mr Lopatka has claimed that Member Gusenbauer and I would have called for the merger of the Gendarmerie with the police.– That's wrong! That's totally wrong! We have only talked about the extent to which the government structure of the security authorities is reorganised. – That is only the truth!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e12433	Mr Donabauer spoke on a personal reply.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e12455	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I should like to say the following to the President of the Council: It was at about half past six o'clock on Friday, when a group, led by Mr. Wieringer, came to my farm and, without asking for access, even entered the premises and agitated my wife there, may she suggest that I do not agree to this pension harmonisation, because I am doing something bad and a robbery against pensioners. – My wife has found that at any time I am able to discuss with them, they should make up for it with me. They then wanted to take a photo because they needed it for documentation – I don't know who to look for. [[Call to the ÖVP: What for?]] That's the truth, and I have to tell you that. I think this is immense, because I consider the situation to be such that the one who exercises his mandate has to face the matter. The family must be kept out of this dispute, and I apologize for such actions!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e12489	Mr Scheibner spoke as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e12510	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I also have a few friends in your group, and I am in favour of that. But I ask you, send me, if you want to do anything to me, these du-friends don't come home to me, but explain your criticism here, because this belongs here – and not to the private apartments of Members of this House! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Mr Cap! The “risk of the basic consensus of the Second Republic” is addressed here, and Mr Cap already explains what he means: He would like to show the different models between SPÖ on the one hand and the government of the Free and ÖVP on the other. Thank you for this urgent debate, Mr Cap, for such a principle debate is probably necessary, and I will not hold this principle debate at the level that I am asking: Who has now done more to pensions?, Who has made more debt or less debt?, Who has raised or lowered taxes?, but really talk about the basics, of the two also ideological, principle-political ways you wanted to address here. We know your way – you have pre-examinated it in Austria for many, many years and decades. Our path has now been implemented in Austria for four years, Mr Cap. In your urgent request, you have described something quite right in the first three paragraphs. The history of the Second Republic was a success story – of reconstruction, of the principle: never again war, never again these conflicts between the political parties that led to a terrible civil war and undemocratic conditions in the First Republic. The result of this success story was material prosperity and social peace in Austria. In this urgent request you also say that this was the success of the Austrians. Politics has – and this has been the case – provided the necessary framework for putting this goal of reconstruction, social peace and the preservation and building up of prosperity in the first place. So far, so right – even in the introduction to your urgent request. [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] What They have not said: that then this awareness, the parties work for Austria and for the people – for people have built this country, not the parties – has turned around. Perhaps it is true that it is never good in democracies if there are a few very large, powerful factions that divide power in the country and control is relatively small: In the course of the years and decades, in the end, people have no longer felt that they are at the centre – including the political interests of the parties – but vice versa. People had more and more the feeling that they were becoming dependent on the services of the parties and depended on the fact that the party's book was important for the public sector, so that they were given the appropriate position that the party's book was important and sometimes the only prerequisite for getting a safe home, that the party's book was also access to some leisure facilities, and that with a fundamental political and ideological view, people were trying to bring from the child – from the scratches – to the old homes into the sphere of influence of the political parties. Ladies and gentlemen! That was also your concept for Austria in the second half of this good reconstruction phase. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Cap! That is why we are very conscious of you. Your concept is: The party is all, the party is in the center, and the citizen is actually a bitter with the political party. – Our concept is that the party is not self-interest, it has to be a service provider, it has a platform for political ideas and to do work for the country and for the people. That is the only condition and the only purpose of political parties in Austria! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This did not work anymore in the nineties, because people had enough to take note of the grotesque formations and finally the results of this basic mood, where then a “Club 45”, an AKH scandal or privileges with double, triple and quadruple salaries became possible. – All of this was too much for the people. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Broukal.]] Mr President, you are also addressing democracy. – Yes, Mr Cap. These were the two major parties at the time. They've been in the single government for a while. Sometimes you've had the feeling that you've ruled alone until 2000. You see, however, that since 2000 a different concept has been implemented in Austria, in which, as has been said, the influence of the political parties, in which the privileges have been reduced and in which democracy will really be brought about a breakthrough, ladies and gentlemen! How did you understand democracy? – At the beginning of the nineties, there was a electoral reform in which we tried to divide the constituencies in such a way that the two major parties in Austria could, as far as possible, achieve a maximum of mandates here in the House. - It didn't work. There you have – democratic understanding, Mr. Cap! – people are threatened to prevent them from signing instruments of direct democracy, such as popular desires. There your party officials went to the congregation apartments and said that if you sign a popular desire that we do not like, then you will lose your home. [[Abg. Bures: This is a scandal!]] There are the works councils... – I know, Mrs. Colleague, because the people who were desperate came to us and said they do not trust to sign this initiative. [[Abg. Bures: That's crazy what you're saying!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] These were the facts, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Bures: That's a nonsense you're saying!]] But then you got the bill. That's what it was. Your view of democracy: Democracy only where it suits you. If someone has a different opinion, then he is influenced and put under pressure. That's what it was. Your system! We are aware of this system, Mrs Bures, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democracy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Call to the liberals: Truth is painful!]] How was it here in the House when it came to including the opposition, ladies and gentlemen also of the Greens? [[Abg. Oils: And now?]] We have experienced this for years when it was not a matter of not complying with a 24-hour Commissioner for one or two hours, but we have tabled massive amendments at second reading with the last speaker. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: But now you do it exactly!]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: And now?]] – I guess there is no longer any such thing, Mr Van der Bellen. [[Contradict with the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! At that time we were sitting in the committees and tabled amendments. I can still recall Members who said that everything we have brought in would be quite good, but they could not change anything, because this law had been negotiated by the social partners and was brought into Parliament here. [[Abg. Oillinger: Mr Scheibner! What is it like now?]] They should not change any more, no more points and no additions should change them there. Ladies and gentlemen! That was democracy, as Mr Cap suggests. This is not our model of democracy. That's where the people's representatives have the laws to make. There the voters have to decide who makes the laws, and not other institutions – which are important and necessary, but which are not responsible for the law making and are not called into law, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: There you get a red head!]] Or on important issues such as EU accession, ladies and gentlemen! How have you tried to involve the opposition, for example, in this important question of the EU membership of Austria? – Not at all because you have said that you do not want to see the liberals at the negotiating table. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Take-off policy!]] With a Freedom Party that represented over a million Austrians at the time, there were no negotiations, no talks, not even the attempt of consensus on this important issue. [[Abg. May. Worm: The Lord's bowl was there! Where was the ÖVP?]] Or the Constitutional Court, which you are now repeatedly quoting: Thank God there is now the possibility of control by the Constitutional Court. [[Abg. Oils: What's going on? What happens to the judgments?]] We have often discussed this. You have made this control of the Constitutional Court impossible with your two-thirds majority. I have just cited an example of colleague herbs, since one has already said that the knowledge was not yet there, and that one will definitely prepare a law. No matter how this knowledge turns out, one will maintain one's own opinion. [[Abg. May. Worm: You don't have a two-thirds majority, that's the only difference!]] That's what it was. Your understanding of political control, not our system, Mr Cap! We also stand on this political control of our laws by the Constitutional Court as the highest body in this area. Or the social partners, ladies and gentlemen: Yes, we also confess to the social partners, but that must not be a shadow government. [[Abg. Oils: Brav must be them!]] The social partners, no matter where they come from, whether the Chamber of Commerce or the Chamber of Labour, Mr Oellinger, must be very careful in dealing with the contributions of the forced members. [[Abg. Elder: Obey!]] You must be very, very economical. [[Abg. Oils: Suitable!]] The Chamber of Commerce has implemented savings programmes. [[Abg. Oils: Servil!]] The Chamber of Workers promised it and did not do it. If it is only because we have said that it is unfair for the Chamber of Labour to flow through the maximum contribution base a basket fee of €1.5 million, and that one should draw a lid here, pretend as if the freedom of representation of interests is being excavated, then I really wonder what confession you have from this institution! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That's great! More money without more performance! That's great!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The final sentence: We see which model the SPÖ had there and even now has, if you say, you won't work in the Convention at all. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: What a threat!]] They are not willing to bear responsibility – neither in the Austrian Convention nor in the pension reform, nor in health, nor in democracy. We are proud that our system differs from your very positive!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e12881	Mrs Bures spoke in favour of an actual correction. 2 minutes speaking time. Please don't turn your back on the speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e12903	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Scheibner has just made the claim that Social Democracy has threatened the termination of municipal housing houses. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That's right!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That was so! That was disgraceful!]] I'm correcting: Social democracy is the party that has always been used for the protection of tenants and the protection of termination, in contrast to this government, which is just about to drive the tenants out of their homes and avoid the protection of termination. [[Contradict with the liberals]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e12976	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Believable. Desirable time: 7 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e12994	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. I have been very attentive and also with some strangers, I must say that the answer from you, Federal Chancellor, belongs to the urgent question. It is strange because I have the impression that you are actually a very intelligent and very quick-looking politician and have actually understood the meaning and direction of this request very well. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Do you wish yourself black-green?]] That is why I think it is clear to you that you really did not want to give an answer to the issue on which we are dealing today. They talked about economic growth, unemployment and the harmonisation of pensions. As you have talked about it and what you have hidden is symptomatic. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] One can discuss these issues. One can discuss each of these issues soberly and objectively. You can discuss benchmarks and see how this is in other countries. I wish, however, that we could get away from this agitatorious inaccurateness, where we are simply spreading advertising brochures in a way that is kind of rhetorical and is not really serious and serious about the problem. [[Abg. It's what the Greens say!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Self-knowledge!]] That's the like. The other thing is what. The issue that we are dealing with today is not the question of whether this pension reform is fair or whether it can be implemented in a different form, but the issue is actually a very sensitive one, namely power, abuse of power, abuse of majority voting and the question of how to deal with it when one has lost sight in the medium term. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: You have never asked the question!]] – And I think you have lost sight, Federal Chancellor! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We have already tried to address this on several occasions: I think it would be very appropriate for a republic that looks back on such a story, as we do, to have such a thing as humility and respect for power and for dissidents. This is the theme you just don't want to understand. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Many people have a very strong feeling that there is a very large arrogance. I do not think that the basic consensus of the Second Republic was the division between red and black. I felt a little misunderstanding about this today in the debate. I have always thought that the basic consensus of the Second Republic is another, namely the experience manifested in this difference that has been made in Mauthausen and Auschwitz between man and man, and the consensus that there will never be. This presupposes something very important, namely respect for the dissident, respect for the one who belongs to another ethical or religious orientation that is critical. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You say that!]] I think the essence of democracy is not only to allow these critics, but also to promote them and to understand this as something positive. This is the essence of democracy: Thinking differently than enriching, as diversity, as the strength of democracy. And I miss that. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] With regard to this respect for dissidents, we have experienced a number of things in the last four or five years. It has actually happened – in the ÖIAG, in the ORF. Editors as “white elephants” have been placed on the shelf track. [[Abg. Head:... a little unfair!]] Here in Parliament too, there is a cave-out. Mr Scheibner, that was written to you once in the main book: I always wonder with what kind of self-evidentness you describe entirely right points of criticism of the past. ==References====External links== What has happened is that applications have not been approved, that there has been an infinite delay in practice, that something logical, such as a minority right to the committee of inquiry, is blocked for decades, all of these were positions of the FPÖ. - You forgot all of this. They do exactly the same, one to one! [[Abg. Scheibner: Isn't it?]] This is exactly the same abuse of majority and power as it has been usual and on the agenda for decades at the ÖVP. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: As committee chairman, we have always complied with the Rules of Procedure.]] What we discussed in this Parliament last week was actually a very serious issue, namely dealing with critics – with critics who are citizens – the criminalisation of lawyers in the human rights field. We have also experienced the attempt of a Member of Parliament to criminalise it. These are all evidences that one has lost sight. It is about these sensitive cross-border crossings, respect for the dissidents, before those with whom the rules of democracy should be jointly designed. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I am deeply disappointed that the Constitutional Convention does not talk about these issues at all. This is precisely the question: What values does the state represent vis-à-vis the citizen? How do you deal with the fact that they want to talk more? How to deal with popular desires? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shy: So hypocrites!]] How to deal with fundamental rights? – It is deeply embarrassing that in the field of fundamental rights such issues as equal pay for equal work do not even find themselves in the social partners agreement in any way that it is not a matter of course to deal with issues such as discrimination against older people, children and women. These are modern democratic issues, and not the division between red and black, I say very critically now. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The values that the state represents towards the citizen, the citizen, are modern questions of democracy. In the Austrian Convention they are far too short. I would have liked you to be a little more critical of your own institutions. All the institutions – the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Workers – have expressed their support for being incorporated into the Constitution. It has been said today that the proposed reform of the ÖH election law is totally unproblematic because it is the same system as in the Chamber of Commerce. We have always massively criticized the system of the Chamber of Commerce. It is deeply undemocratic. I don't think that's what I need to tell you. If, for example, you get 64 percent of the economic parliamentary mandates from 50 percent of the votes in Vienna through this delegation system, through the innctions and sections, de facto all of which are automatically assigned to the Economic Union, then there is something wrong. To call it fair and fair is really bizarre and absurd. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I also find it strange, Mr. National Council President Khol – I am sorry to have to criticize you again! – that you interfere in this discussion with the Chamber of Labour, with such sentences as: reduces the hearing, but it should not be given the impression of a punishment action. – I know that you can’t say anything about this now, but I still find it strange to somehow set up such things as self-organised, self-managed organisations as national council presidents. I'd ask for restraint. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Would you like to ban the President from expressing his views? It's not allowed to express opinions, is it?]] One last thing about ÖH and the universities. I just want to give you a single sentence. The universities have maintained a critical spirit for many decades and centuries, no matter what educational ministers have given it. It is given to you or to you the following sentence: And she's moving! The university's critical spirit is inexhaustible – no matter what ÖH reform you will do.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e13221	The next speaker is Mrs Csörgits. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e13240	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The government's policy has been and is rightly criticized. It is criticized by the employee organisations, and it has been and is criticized by the representatives of the students in Austria. The answer of the government groups is that in the last days and weeks they simply act against these representations of interests – whether the Chamber of Labour, or the ÖH – again. There is simply a government partner and announces that the AK's money will be frozen over the night without a single conversation on this very important question. I think that is extremely undemocratic, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you, Mr Bundeskanzler, say that the Austrian Chamber of Commerce has shortened its contributions, that is right. However, you also need to add something second and third, namely that, in connection with this reduction in contributions, the benefits in the Austrian Chamber of Commerce have also been shortened or distributed and that now the chamber members of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce have to pay for these benefits. – That is also said! Furthermore, the amount of money available to the Austrian Chamber of Commerce is as high as the amount of money available to the ÖGB and the Chamber of Labour. [[Abg. Scheibner: They send people to the ÖGB for information, the Chamber of Workers!]] That also belongs to that, Mr. Federal Chancellor! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What does an ominous freezing of contributions to the Chamber of Workers mean? – It means less protection, it means less service, and it also means less rights for workers. [[Abg. Scheibner: That must not be true!]] Mr Bartenstein, Federal Minister, of course, supports you when it comes to shortening and restricting the representation of workers' interests, because the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour repeatedly forgets that he is also responsible for work. The economy is much more at his heart. Federal Chancellor! If you intervene, this also means that there is a unilateral shift in the balance of power of the social partners, and, of course, we must not forget that either, but we are already used to it by your government, at the expense of workers. If you obviously want to weaken the Chamber of Labour as an attorney for workers, that is the right way. That you want to weaken the rights with what you do is probably the only explanation, because otherwise there is no other explanation for your actions. [[Abg. Head: With actions like... and Donabauer weakens the Chamber of Labour itself!]] You do not believe that this is in any form related to health reform. It is a purely arbitrary act with the aim of making the Chamber of Workers mouth dead. Or maybe I should say it's a revenge? – Because, for example, the FPÖ has suffered extreme losses in the last Chamber of Workers elections because the Chamber of Labour has given you their entirely justified criticism [[Abg. Scheibner: You don't know what you're talking about!]] Her social cold keeps in mind again and again – see pension reform and pension harmonisation. [[Abg. Scheibner: The money would already take you from the supposedly unsocial pension reform!]] Criticism in connection with the edition of the "Kurier" of the 10th century. In November, Mr Klubobmann Cap has already set up, Mr Bundeskanzler, so I am saving myself. I too was very surprised, as was Mrs Glavischnig, at the fact that you, Mr Khol, have also responded. I would just like to say to the fairness that I have received the notice that you have been addressed to the "Tyrol daily" on 15 May. In November you announced that you are making this proposal more of a reason to remove the pressure from the Chamber of Workers. Mr Khol, I would You really ask that, if so, you give this to a wider public. Although the "Tyrol daily" is important, it is certainly not a leaf that is read very strongly. [[Abg. Gahr: Good paper!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The members of the Federal Government, as well as the representatives of the ÖVP and FPÖ have repeatedly said in recent weeks that the examples of the Chamber of Labour in connection with pension harmonisation are wrong. In fact, they have proved that these examples are wrong, or show a single false example, but they have not been able to. [[Abg. Scheibner: This has been shown several times by Minister Haupt!]] It is also interesting, Mr Scheibner, that calculations have just been submitted in the Committee last week by the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which basically supported the calculations of the Chamber of Labour. [[Abg. Scheibner: Main has already proved several times that the calculations of the Chamber of Workers are wrong!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you cut down the money of the Chamber of Workers, that means that the members no longer have the same rights and opportunities and that they are no longer sufficiently advised. [[Abg. May. Worm: That's your goal!]] And that would be a pity! Many members need this consultation, need this Council and need this support. Whether or not advice or representation of interest: The Chamber of Labour ensures that its members not only have rights, but also receive these rights. That's more important now than ever. Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, needs debate, no restriction! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e13412	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Head. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e13431	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The social partners in our country are an institutional achievement that I do not want to miss, nor my party in Austria. [[Intrusions of the Abg. May. Posch.]] If it didn't exist, then you would have to invent it very quickly for this country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is also a very valuable counterweight to the proper power of the state and its organs. I think it is just that strong because there is a duty to be a member of these organisations. All employees on the one hand, all entrepreneurs or farmers and farmers on the other hand are mandatory members in their organisations and make them as strong as they are by this comprehensive representation. [[Abg. Grill:... Original vote...!]] – Mr Grillitsch, it is fully correct, Mr Grillitsch, that it is secured by the original votes of the members and that they also want this membership to be so. However, this compulsory membership also imposes special obligations on these organisations, namely obligations to deal sparingly with the duties of the members, to make appropriate use of these funds and, of course, to act in accordance with the law as regards the performance of tasks. It is already legitimate that the government, initially in the person of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour, who, as a supervisory body, by law, has to monitor these organisations, has an eye on what happens to the funds of these organisations, how the tasks are carried out and whether this is actually done in accordance with the law. If Mr Bartenstein makes a statement on this, this will be done within the framework of his legal responsibility. I don't understand how this is criticized at all. Or: Of course, the National Council, which has given these organisations its legitimacy by means of appropriate laws and has assured them, for example, of their membership by law, also has the right to question their economy and effectiveness. If, therefore, our chief representative of the National Council, Mr President, makes a critical remark, that is not just his right, but his duty to observe these things critically. Mrs Glawischnig, I do not understand at all and cannot accept that you want to take this right to the President of the Court of Justice of his opinion and opinion in this supervisory duty, which is even assigned to him. I can't accept that. I have to point this out. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Scheibner.]] If we are already in the throes of these organizations, I must insist: The Economic and Social Committee was particularly aware that it must also legitimise the membership of its members, that it is precisely necessary to deal with the resources in a fair and appropriate way. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: That's hair-throwing!]] The Chamber of Commerce itself has ordered a savings programme and, as a result, the contributions for its members are reduced by 30 percent, by € 150 million per year. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Holy shit.]] This leads to the fact that what has been said before is no longer true. Once you deduct the service facility of the External Economic Organisation and the expenses for the entire economy, the budget of the Chamber of Commerce – without this organization – is now lower than that of the Chamber of Workers. That's how it looks, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What are we talking about here? [[Abg. Sburny: Maybe about the number of members?]] We are not talking about how it was again the division of Mrs Csörgits, of an attack-like reduction in contributions and the revenue of the Chamber of Labour. We are talking about the fact that an additional financing measure for health care, only from this title, i.e. raising the maximum basis of assessment, should not have created any additional revenue, beyond normal revenue increases, for the Chamber of Labour. Nothing else we talked about. It must still be allowed to start a discussion that such a windfall profit should not arise. I recognise that the independence of interest organisations is respected – including this House – and that there is no direct intervention. But a discussion about what I've just explicated must still be allowed. I would urgently ask the Chamber of Labour not only to allow this discussion, but to begin on its own, to legitimize its own institution, and to explain once what it looks like with the expediency and sparingness of dealing with compulsory contributions from its members. I cordially invite them to do the same as the Chamber of Commerce.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e13526	Mr Broukal spoke in favour of an actual correction. You know the Rules of Procedure, Mr Cot. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e13547	Mr President. Mr Karlheinz Kopfhat claimed that the Chamber of Commerce would have reduced the contributions for its members by 30 percent. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: That's right!]] – This is not true insofar as since then members of individual benefits received from the board have to make additional contributions, so that the balance is another one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e13585	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e13603	Ladies and gentlemen! Whenever a principle debate takes place in Parliament, someone comes out of the opposition – today it was Mrs Glavischnig – and calls for tolerance or respect for dissidents. This demand for respect for dissidents is, of course, meant by Mrs Glawischnig in such a way that one should have respect for the opposition. One does not even think of having respect for the opinion of the government parties. We always miss that, ladies and gentlemen. If you are not the opinion of a representative of the government parties, you will immediately come with the punch “right-wing” and “undemocratic” and so on. And today you throw around with the term “undemocratic” on every subject – we have discussed it all day long today. You, mys. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition parties, always confuse something. If you have a different opinion on a law, then you are not “undemocratic”! But you think anyone who supports a bill that you yourself are not convinced of is undemocratic or even a lawbreaker. I think you should review your opinion – but above all, not only talk about respect for a dissident, but also live once, ladies and gentlemen, of the Greens and the SPÖ! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Such respect also includes the fact that measures that are necessary and therefore discussed and decided by the government parties are discussed and decided on in a material way – and not everything and everyone immediately with the punch: everything bad, all bad! I think that you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and Greens, have a very great need to think about how you yourself deal with respect for others. By the way: What would the Federal Chancellor have done today to give correct answers? Mr. Darabos said that the German Chancellor’s answers would have been a “provocation”. – I can only say: This is so ridiculous your request that it should not be taken seriously at all. But the Federal Chancellor took them seriously – and therefore: This again falls into the category of how you deal with the opposition with the opinions of representatives of the government parties. But, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, as regards the ‘basic consensus’ you have referred to: I don't know what you understand. Do you understand, among them, the debt policy of the Socialist Finance Ministers by the end of 1999, a debt policy that has led to every Austrian indebted with €13 000 at the beginning of 2000?- Oh, my God! Is that the policy you say has led Austria to success? This debt policy has led to a reform policy now to secure pensions in order to secure the health system in order to secure families. They from SPÖ have never taken the opportunity – even in times of economic good times – to take financial measures that would have made it possible to resort to them in bad times and to prevent such profound measures as now need to be adopted. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Of the Social Democratic Social Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it could be said that these were active under the motto: Behind me the flood! They have left the SPÖ a pension system that has lasted for just two or three years, but no longer, so that the Federal Government has to implement a far-reaching pension reform. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] Under your policy, thousands of jobs have been lost: 60 000 jobs in the nationalized industry; 120 billion schillings have been lost. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Wittmann.]] I also refer to the DDSG and the pleite with the “Mozart” At that time, Mr. Federal Chancellor Vranitzky took over the “responsibility”, he said at least. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: When I think back, it shudders me!]] But what did this “responsibility ” look like? – That the Austrians had to pay half a billion schillings – and Mr. Vrannitzky has a good pension, but for the disaster of the “Mozart” he has actually taken no responsibility at all! – Mrs Bures, there is really nothing to defend! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bures.]] [[New call of the abg. Bures.]] Another thing: They have accused the Minister of the Interior of Strasser of motivating himself about a knowledge of the Constitutional Court. – I remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, that Mr Jarolim took part in a meeting at Lansky law firm in which socialist politicians broke their heads on how to strengthen socialist influence in the judiciary! [[Oh, call the liberals.]] This is your view of democracy! – Now you don’t need to smile at yourself like this, but you should rather knock on the chest and say: [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Yes, these were our sins! For us from the coalition parties, the basic consensus is the long-term provision for the Austrians, in all areas: in the economy, in research, in young people, in education; for us, the basic consensus is the peaceful co-existence of all Austrians. If someone really broke the basic consensus, then it was members of the SPÖ or the Greens, who, when this Federal Government was installed from FPÖ and ÖVP, traveled to Brussels or also to England and there – partly with sparkling glass, partly without a glass in hand – made mood against Austria! [[Abg. Oil: Yes, yes!]] That was a break from the basic consensus, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen! [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Dr. stupid.]] Mr. Gusenbauer and Mr. Van der Bellen have also filed certain opinions on Austria, so that you are now opposed to a release of these reports, because you made such accusations against Austria at the time. If that is not true, you say that these reports should finally be presented! They from SPÖ and Greens have followed Austria – and that was the biggest break of the basic consensus at all, ladies and gentlemen! [[Contradict with the SPÖ and the Greens]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] They showed your true face at the time – and also showed you how “serious” is really a basic consensus. However, we have worked with you, and for the first time, Vice-Chairman Riess-Passer has offered you to work with you on the policy of government. [[Abg. Bures: You sent her to the devil!]] – But you from SPÖ and Greens have not accepted this offer! You always heard and heard only criticism. But then try to accuse us of FPÖ and ÖVP, we would have broken the basic consensus! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Typical red raunzer!]] That's not true, but: We stand for a peaceful living together of all Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e13796	The next speaker is Mr Grünewald. Desirable time: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e13814	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! High house! Let's talk straight as it was! Mrs Bundesminister Gehrer invited me to a discussion in October of this year and presented me with a few variants of a possible change in the law of high school. She said she would discuss each of these variants, seek consensus with the high school and involve the opposition. It is true, however, that a genuinely invading proposal by Mr Brinek and Mr Achleitner has come, and it is obvious that it is so lupen-only that they have not written this initiative themselves. He was written in Parliament. They adorn themselves with foreign feathers; if this goes on, they soon have a plumage like an Indian skipper from the tribe of the black feet. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the SPÖ.]] You have not written this request. For the listeners you have to ask: What's the consequences? – This draft law is not subject to review! Chancellor Schüssel called us his motives and said that autonomy is one thing, it's all going to the universities. The universities even have their budget and budget autonomy. – Of course, the universities will like to hear that. Is there another finance minister? Is there still Mrs Gehrer? I wonder, Does she have no influence on the university budget? [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Brinek and Mag. Hakl.]] Mr Bundeskanzler Schüssel also said that he or Mrs Minister had a letter from the Conference of Presidents. – Federal Chancellor, the Presidency Conference is a consultative body of the Federal Republic of Germany. They have plenty of nine signatures from 21 universities, and there is nothing about the abolition of the direct election, no sentence from the abolition of the direct election! And signed is this paper by two AG members. – Should be like that, but that’s not a legitimate organ! I just wanted to remind you of that. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Federal Chancellor! But what I really want to address is your autonomy. If it were true, it would still be nice. It is true, however, that if you look at what this law does to change the allocation of mandates: If the last election had been elected in accordance with the current law, the election result would be – see! - on the head. If you explain to me that this is in line with the random principle, I have to say that this higher mathematics, in which it goes, I don't know. If it's autonomy, I'll ask myself: Why aren't we economical? I'll give you a savings tip! In Austria, we only make municipal elections, we save ourselves everything else, and the municipalities send out the parliamentarians! That's autonomy, too! Molterer, who served as a student, was Minister of Agriculture. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: You have said that before!]] Please, explain to me: Why do we need a Minister of Agriculture? Let us call out the autonomy of the farms and the fields and the stables! [[Abg. Parnigoni: This is a good idea!]] The local authorities know better: The twigs grow on the trees and the earth apples in the soil. I don't need a minister to do that. The autonomy must live! And where does autonomy live? – Look Take a look at the RFS homepage! There you thank for the talks. Gehrer did not talk to TU Wien and also to the University of Graz, the University of Linz and the University of Salzburg, nor did he talk to their chairmen. But to whom she certainly did not talk, that is the legitimate representation of the ÖH, namely the federal executive. Just a little bit about autonomy. – In one point, however, do not take these seriously: The autonomy is countercared by very powerful university councils, of which a non-explainable part is sent by the Federal Government. And see: At least 50 percent of these were in the National Council election in your Proponents Committee! How far do you take autonomy seriously? You need a scientific council, but you or the Federal Government nominate it! You need advice on research and technology development, and you also nominate it. What about autonomy? - Nothing! What does the law now look like, apart from the fact that majority relations would turn around? – The ÖH will eventually be downgraded to what you want to see. They may then reproach that one professor loves one and the other is evil and that one is strict and the other mild. – Should this be the field of activity of the student parliament alone? Should they just say that certain laboratories are bad, that the exam repetitions are too rare and the exam offers are poor, not four or five dates in the semester, but only one or two? Am I mistaken, Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, when I assume that the laws are made by the covenant and that the existence of the universities of federal laws is influenced? And this federal representative gets 50 percent less money and is sent and no longer elected free! – Mrs Hakl, you should not talk too much about universities, because that is not your special area to say it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hakl.]] [[Congratulations and cheerfulness with the greens.]] It is also new that the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Labour must deliver performance reports, accounts and accounts to Parliament. The OH must do that now! Where have you taken into account the need for autonomy, Mr Bundeskanzler, where you have interfered? Where did you take into account the principle of autonomy at the ORF, the health insurance companies, the main association, the ÖBB and the Chamber of Labour? If all the problems of the students are caused only by local circumstances, I wonder: Can the Federal Government explain itself or can the local circumstances of the university and ask itself: What is our contribution to the fact that they are not well?, and the ÖH allows to represent also total university interests – to produce scripts and such things, that is the university's task and not the studentship! Another thing: The ÖH wasn't the first. With the last university law, the rector's conference was abolished, there is no longer any more, it has become an association. The conference of professors no longer exists, it has also become an association. And there is no longer any scientific personnel at all. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's not true!]] Of course that's true! Please don't tell me any fairy tales now! I told you about the emperor and his clothes! The motto “Divide et impera” has been broken down by very large university representative bodies! They now face 21 rectors – rectors do not exist – which you can individually – under goose feet, which is not meant to be so evil – and which then have to negotiate their budget. But who really represents education policy? Who uniformly represents research policy outside? – No one is entitled and legitimate by law to do so, and I think that I have to say that honestly, bad! Another thing because the RFS Graz has been so pleased: Federal Chancellor! Her minister Gehrer wasn't exactly shy in ordering really national citizens! You can be tolerant, there may be that too. But if I now have an honor card from “Olympia” and other compounds – and I really can only say: Have d’honor for this invitation! – get to a Conrad Lorenz-Commers, in which – according to Konrad Lorenz – stands: “The ninth sin of death” is the Frankfurt School, a “combination of neomarxism and psychoanalysis”, then I must say: It's not far from there with science! I admit: Horkheimer, Marcuse and Adorno may be difficult to read. But it's not all that's hard to read, nonsense. – I hope that at least on this point you will agree with me! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e13913	The next speaker is Mr Broukal. The desired speaking time is 4 minutes. – You are speaking, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e13933	Mr. Rasinger, my bad luck star! Beware of my closeness when I'm talking! [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: But no, the lucky star, the Christmas star!]] Ah, my lucky star now? - All right! You're going to be at high school – we've discussed this more often, and I've also shown it to you on a website of the RFS – about the Quasi removal of the Federal ÖH. Thank you for this openness on the Internet! But once again you don't go to work with velvet gloves! I'll determine where to look. This starts once with the innocent claim that the high school has been invited to talk anyway. Mrs. Brinek last Friday in the “Time in Picture 3” in the original tone: The Conference of Presidents, that is, all the chairmen of the universities, have written a resolution, and the points are essentially what we have now tabled as a request. Today I received a letter from the president of this conference, Mrs Patrice Fuchs, in which she writes: As chairman of the Presidency Conference, I must stress that neither the Ministry nor members of the Federal Government have ever approached us, nor the chairmen of the University's representatives, in order to negotiate the HSG-Novelle. - Quote. [[Calls and calls between representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] There are 21 chairmen of the university, but only eleven of them have spoken out, and neither have these eleven opted to abolish the direct election to the Federal High School. – Mrs. Brinek, why do you say the untruth on television? The abolition of the direct election of the Federal Republic of Germany is your wish, not the wish of the Uni-ÖH chairmen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As you constantly emphasize your willingness to talk from the ÖVP: You have rejected the invitation to the Round Table of the ÖH. You have rejected the invitation to discuss your draft at the ÖH. But you're ready to talk! It's just, you know, Where? Probably to the RFS, how to read on its homepage! By the way, I do not criticise Your right to make proposals for initiative, I would just like to suggest that you, you and the Ministry of Education, in this case, have deliberately and against better knowledge in the faith that the Federal Republic of Germany would be able to support the change of law. I criticise the fact that the Ministry of the ÖH wrote a letter two months ago, in which there is little need for adaptation in some areas, but now this “conservative revolution” is initiated by you here in Parliament at night. – By the way, that’s not mine, but: Copyright Margaretha Kopein, “Kurier”. They want to make the self-confident federal ÖH mouth dead, and that a few months before the next ÖH election. That is a bad style, this is reckless use of a majority, and that is a lack of respect for democracy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] “Now it’s the right to vote,” writes Herbert Lacner in the “profile”, “first of all to that of the high school.” – We’ll fight for it not to get that far, and not just at high school! But there are also massive objections to what you have presented in the technical field. 8,000 students voted differently at the last election of the ÖH on the Union level than for the Federal Office. “Fachressung” is for thousands Students seem to be slightly different from political representation at the federal level towards the Federal Government. There is a need for a direct personal election, and we cannot warn you enough to ignore this need! There's another thing to do here: 18 000 students study at more than one university, and the latter have two votes indirectly in your electoral model. 800 of them even had three votes. With your proposal for an initiative, you are creating an electoral right that is contrary to the top principle of democracy: Every person a voice! Do you know what you're doing? Are you still on the bottom of the Constitution? I assume that the Constitutional Court will also have to bring you back to the ground of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e14005	The next speaker is Mrs Dr. Brinek. 5 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e14023	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I can refer immediately to the statements made by my previous speakers. – Ms Csörgits said: Democracy is called conflict. – We agree! However, if the introduction of an initiative proposal into the evening hours of a Parliament which meets several times a year or more until 9 a.m. in the evening, as a “risk of the Second Republic’s basic consensus”, is to be called “disgusting” and “suffer”, Mr. Krainer, then one can no longer agree with and endorse this view! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is a reason to be appalled and to worry about democracy policy. I just need to remember that we all go through the house here with visitors, students and students and always hear the gentle accusation and demand: Are you not actually the extended arm of the Federal Government? [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Yes!]] [[Abg. Eder: Yes!]] [[Further calls at the SPÖ:Yes!]] When are you your own initiative? . We have become an initiative with this initiative and have developed our parliamentary self-confidence, Mr Cot! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] If you don't want to, you have to ask yourself about your motivation to be here in this house. That is the crucial point! Do not measure with two measurements! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Step out of here and say: I have put my interest in the door, I do not want to make any proposals for initiative here! By the way, I can remind you: Self-employed proposals from the SPÖ: 68 in the number. Independent requests from the Greens: 38 pieces. – Are these the better ones, and is my and Mrs Achleitner's request worse? What democratic understanding do you have, ladies and gentlemen? – Fairs You don't measure twice! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] What is it about, ladies and gentlemen? – It is about the so-called abolition of the federal representation. “Abolition of the Federal Office” does not stand in my request! What is your request, Mr Broukal? – It mentions structural reform as well as the social partners’ institutions, as well as the working class, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Agriculture or, for example, the student representation and the Notarial Chamber, and so on. Are not all of these democratic institutions? Are these structures perhaps also to be changed in a night and fog action? – You do not take yourself seriously, ladies and gentlemen, if you do so! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] The most direct-democratic legitimacy is that of the base. Is the University of Vienna's base not to take and strengthen seriously with 60,000 students? – Who here claims the opposite, may step out and say that! I say: 60 000 university students Vienna or its student representatives deserve to be strengthened, and this strengthening manifests itself in a stronger allocation of funds and in a stronger, better democratic legitimacy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] By the way, Mr Broukal: There is a difference between contributions and prices! I should like to say this to you, Member of the Chamber of Commerce, which you seem to be, about your correction by Mr Karl-Heinz Kopf. Another note: Subsidiarity is widely written in Europe and in tradition in Austria and in the Austrian People's Party, and subsidiarity also characterizes this ÖH law. I come to the point of view once again: Democracy means conflict. – I looked at one of my model women, with Minister Firnberg: In view of the EH-Novelle in the 1970s, she said: I can already imagine that the students and the professors are dissatisfied with my proposals, but we still have to make the reform. She also said: This is the first time... [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Who said that? Which party was that person of?]] Ms Firnberg von der SPÖ said: Even if they can't go along, we can't do anything! Ms Firnberg also said that the High School Act would be adopted without the votes of the opposition. What is it?, she said, we cannot discuss endlessly! – She spoke of another university. In the 1970s, 44 percent of students took part in the ÖH election, 44 percent! Today it's almost 29 percent. That's an alarm signal! The red light is on! We need to change the structures, ladies and gentlemen, and not continue! [[Abg. Broukal: Why did you say the untruth on TV?]] In conclusion: Mr Darabos said Austria was a “Jammertal”. – I mean, in the positive sense, you could say: That's a joke! In the worst sense, however, it would have to be noted: Mr Darabos has lost his right to be taken seriously! Ladies and gentlemen! You didn't do anything with this urgent request!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e14159	The next speaker is Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. Speaking time 5 minutes; The Group's remaining speaking time: 8 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e14177	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Broukal, we cannot speak at all in connection with the Austrian high school! [[Abg. Broukal: The RFS sees it differently!]] If you have read the proposal for innovation, then They found that 21 university representatives were elected. They will continue to be directly-democratically elected by the students as before. [[Abg. Broukal: And the Federal Öh?]] The Federal Office will still be there, it will recruit from the university's representatives. The ÖH will not break down, as Mr Trunk has explained in an issue today. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It is positive and good that the interests of each university will be better represented in the future. Through the university law, it is fact that the university organisation is now at the centre of decision-making and responsibility, and therefore it is important that rectors, Senate and university councils are faced with a strong representation. Mrs Glawischnig said: Critical spirits are inexhaustible. - Yes! They should also be inexhaustible, because critical students are in demand at the university's representation when they work for the local students at the universities.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e14231	Mr Preineder! They are now making sustainable calls in plenary. I'll give you a call for order!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e14261	The individual universities are now really moving into the centre and are also supposed to be the centre of the work of the Austrian high school, and therefore it is only good that the financial resources are also re-turned. This does not mean that the Austrian high school gets less money. The sum of money remains the same, and the most important thing is: The offer for the students remains the same! Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! They demand more and more transparency, and this is particularly taken into account in the new Higher Education Act. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: By abolishing elections!]] Transparency will be increased if the tuition fees are set out more precisely when students receive the right to information, what happens with the tuition fees, and that this money does not disappear anywhere in the budget. Furthermore, students also have the right to check how to use the ÖH contributions by submitting a performance report every two years. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: But to Parliament!]] Mr Broukal, I have to mention you again: ==References== In an issue of November, the politically colorful student parliament was to be preserved. - Yes, exactly! This innovation will strengthen smaller groups by having the opportunity to join list associations, and therefore the smaller groups will have the opportunity to be represented in the Federal Office. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Broukal: And the bigger ones are made smaller! That is called “democracy! ”]] Ladies and gentlemen! There will be a strengthening of the direct university representation, greater transparency and democracy. – This is a real yes to a strong representation of interest, and that is why we too will agree to this present ÖH novelle.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e14331	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. Desirable time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e14351	Ladies and gentlemen! Something very strange has now happened: Mr Achleitner explained just before the law was even here in the House: We will agree! – That’s exciting! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: There has been negotiations on this!]] The second strange thing is that Mrs Brinek has long tried to explain to us that she has written the initiative proposal. Mrs Brinek, don't let me ask you the question. They state: Faith You really think you've written this request yourself? Do you want to make us believe that you yourself have written this request? That's really incredible, Mrs. Brinek! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Let's go back to the real subject. I would ask you and ask that you also follow us on this path a little: It is not about us discussing here and now whether a Duz-friend has appeared in the yard with Mr Donabauer and has caught his wife instead. I have found this to be an exaggeration, but I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, first of all, first of all, after the corrections to the overall picture which Mr Vergestnich has put forward today: Let the one thing that happened there – no matter how you can evaluate it – really compare with the very massive – now you could say: unauthorized!, I say: legitimate! – Are there any accusations that there is something big happening in this Republic that will be recolored, that people will be removed from posts, that whole institutions will be created? That's the force you're planning! And that really deserves an argument. This is the attempt at authoritarian redesign of this republic! I do not agree with colleagues from the SPÖ if they believe that it is enough to return to where we have been before. Unfortunately, the basic consensus of the Second Republic – and I am absolutely grateful for Mr Scheibner's speech – was never one that – beyond the good cooperation of the social partners at the beginning and its success – would have included other groups of society. This led not only to the founding of the Greens in the 1980s and 1990s, but also to the rise of the Freedom Party. And I do not want to return to the nineties, where a hatred propaganda has also accompanied the rise of the Freedom Party. This is not our Republic, where foreigners and other groups in this country were hit, where one was played out with privileges against the other! This is not our idea of a republic! [[Abg. Bucher: Where was the hatred propaganda?]] The Federal Government, formed by Schwarz/Blau in 2000, would have had the opportunity – if it had not had this composition – to show here that it is different that it can do better. You would have had the chance not to dye, not to speak in the language of the lab – Mr Scheuch, you are still coming, would you? – to be dependent, not to be silent where there is criticism of the other, because one does not want to be criticized either. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: I hope!]] All of this could have been the subject of you. But what did you do? – From red-black agreements in the past with an intermediate stage of blue ascent, a black coloring of this Republic has become: from the ÖBB on ÖIAG, the ORF, the pension insurance institution of the employees – have you already forgotten how this happened at the time, ladies and gentlemen? – the main association, the health agencies, the self-government, the universities, the high school, the workers' chambers up to the posts in the Ministry of the Interior and in the other departments. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Einm]] There's a violent thing going on! That's real. Your work of the last four years! In this quality, there was no such thing in the Second Republic. You, the liberals, were expelled in the 1980s to criticize exactly that. But now you keep your mouth shut and join us. They praise the ÖH reform before it was introduced into Parliament. They say: There we are, because you recognize the purpose: That's what it's about to make dissidents, dissidents mouth-dead. Where it is not about killing the mouth, it is at least about taking the opportunity to prove themselves in functions, or about giving a clear indication, as is the case with the Chambers of Labour, which reads: Woe, if you again criticize, then a little money can be taken away! [[Abg. Wheeler: A little?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] This is not a mouth-death, but it is a clear indication of what you can imagine in these rows. This is the problem we have with your policy! There the hare is running, and there the Republic and the democratic consensus of this Republic cannot be found! I do not like to conjure up a fundamental consensus in this Republic. I still remember how the then Clubobmann and current National Council President Khol moved the “Constitutional Arch” from one party to another every hour. This is not my basic consensus: by explaining one for five minutes for democratic and the other for five minutes for undemocratic! This is not our view of how to make policy here! This urgent request would have been very appropriate if you had not talked about pension reform, the number of employees, any house visits and what else I know. They're trying to avoid the subject. You won't get through with that!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e14502	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Key to word reported. 2 minutes speaking time. Facts – and no political values, Mr Deputies. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e14523	Of course, Mr President. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: I think he says something to Mr. Brinek!]] Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr Oellinger here claimed that the Freedom Party would have become big and strong with a “hass propaganda”. - That's wrong! I'm correcting: The Freedom Party has become great and strong with politics for the people!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e14567	Mr President, you have now corrected a political claim by another one. But it was no actual correction! The next speaker is Mr Parnigoni. Desirable time: 4 minutes. The remainder of the debate is 8 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e14593	Mr President. High house! After all the undemocratic practices, as at the ÖH, the Minister of the Interior is now trying to tear the total power in itself. He wants to create an executive, which is exclusively under him, he breaks down with all the traditions of the government structure of that Republic. [[Abg. Rädler: The security debate is later!]] Such a thing – my Ladies and gentlemen, to your understanding of basic consensus! – there is no Europe-wide – except in systems to which dictatorship is said. [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: Please?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Rädler: order call!]] They create police structures, according to which all executive bodies are directly subordinated to the Minister of the Interior. Ladies and gentlemen, this is really a scandal! [[Abg. Rädler: Austria is not a dictatorship!]] [[Abg. Silhavy: (in the direction of Abg. Rädler) He didn't say that either!]] [[Abg. Wheeler: (replicating) Safe!]] [[Abg. Silhavy: (a.k.a. No, he didn't say that!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Interior Minister Strasser wants direct command over the entire federal police force. Thousands of security officials are solely responsible to the Minister of the Interior, whose progress is solely dependent on the Minister of the Interior. They will therefore have everything the Minister of the Interior wants of them to do. Such a state is a democratic rule of law of the 21st century. ==References====External links== It's unbearable! Ladies and gentlemen! It is also the attempt to redefine all the functions with the Security Police Act, one that is truly scandalous. The Federal Chancellor is here speaking of nine national police commanders whose posts are to be issued. In a reply to a question from the Federal Council, Mr Pröll, in the representation of Minister Strasser, said: 9 Landespartis-..., uh, state police commanders, 9 alternates – well, clearly, Mr Fassleven, exactly so it will be: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fassleven]] For You'll be the party commander! –, 53 Head of Division, 47 Head of Division, 60 other senior officials, 138 Head of Department, Investigation and Assistance, 138 alternates of these functions, 1 497 other E2a officials, with and without qualifications, and 3 363 other executive and administrative officials. For all of this, posts are signed out. Ladies and gentlemen! It is immense that the Minister of State is making himself here and pretending that only nine posts would be rewritten. The entire executive, the entire executive device will be involved in 2005 – and that in the security situation we now have! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm still holding the following: Thousands of executive officials will have to fear for their function and for the social protection of their families – I emphasize this because we have spoken so much about families today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kößl.]] That, Mr Kößl, is really a joke! [[Abg. Kößl: Stay with the truth!]] The fact is: They threaten 5,300 executives in their existence, for none of them know what will happen to him! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Kößl.]] Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ, it is safe: Your approach to the Constitution is a “very special”; you have already proved it in the field of asylum law and civil service. But what I'm telling you now is putting the barrel out of the ground. I say to you: I have a decree in my hand, in which is the following – I quote –: "The permission to provide information to the media in accordance with laws and regulations remains valid as regards positive occasions as in the relevant act. As regards all negative occasions..., the report B/C shall include the note ‘No Press’.’ In addition, it says here: ‘However, any relevant information may be provided by the editing body on... negative occasions if the case is already known to the media.’ Then comes the special sentence: ‘But there must be no counterproductive statements, such as lack of personnel, lack of overtime, too few strips, internal organizational problems, etc.’ That's a muzzler lass par excellence! That's a democratic scandal! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] And that speaks for your policy, which, in reality, devastates democracy and the rule of law!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e14777	Mr Ing. Reported chapel to word. 2 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member, reject the facts by means of facts.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e14799	Mr Parnigoni, you have claimed here that the social security of the Gendarmerie officials and of my colleagues would be threatened or threatened by this reform. I'm correcting: That's wrong! [[Abg. Eder: These are not facts, please!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] That's wrong what you're saying, because it's all the old people's money!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e14871	The next word came from Mr Dr. Fassl evening. 5 minutes speaking time. Rest of the speaking time of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats: 6 Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e14889	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ has today submitted a urgent request entitled “Consistency of the Basic Consensus of the Second Republic by the Federal Government”. If you take a closer look at or analyse the explanations, you get a highly interesting result. I'm starting at point 3, where it's about the merger of gendarmerie and police. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! ==References== To call democracy a threat when the most necessary thing is made, namely that two guards are put together and thus an efficient instrument for combating organised crime is created, remains your home. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] If you see the fact that you are not being cared for in Purkersdorf by the Gendarmerie and in Vienna by the police and in Groß-Enzersdorf again by the Gendarmerie, so that you do not employ three different authorities within half an hour, as “hazardous of the basic consensus”, then this is your case! Mr Parnigoni has been very quick to get out of here when the finding was made that he would have claimed that he would have been personally for that. I don't think he was personally for that. However, I have a report of the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” of 1. February 2003 before, where under the title ‘Documentation – this is what the SP wants’: “The SP presented its programme for government negotiations with the VP on Friday. The following are the main areas of action: That's what it says: “Work and Economy:” And then it's under "Internal, External Security": ‘Fusion Police/Gendarmerie’. Maybe you didn't. Perhaps the SPÖ never decided. It may have decided and, as we are used to, withdrawn immediately 24 hours later. I don't know. At any rate, the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” have so recorded it under the title “Documentation” because they believed that this is your opinion. [[Abg. Parnigoni shakes his head.]] If you now say that this endangers the “basic consensus of the Second Republic, ” that is another very different thing. Next point: They have dealt with the Chamber of Labour, with the criticism that the contributions are too much increased, or also highly criticised that the President of the National Council has expressed his views on this to the public. I would like to say to you: The public administration in Austria is, from the Constitution, characterised by the principles of sparing, economics and expediency, or there is a constitutional mandate to conduct them in this way, and this, of course, also applies to self-government. If there has been an increase in contribution performance of almost 20 percent within just four years without extending the tasks, one can certainly question that. Although the mere questioning is already a violation of the basic consensus of the Second Republic, I feel that some have not understood the basic consensus of the Second Republic. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Next point: Ooh. – I ask you: If, in June of this year, the university representatives demand a certain reform, namely that the funds should reach 90 percent of the universities, and the government takes this into account in November, is this really also a violation of the basic consensus of the Second Republic? You've been fighting it. I just want to say: Here is the issue of the APA, which notes the following: ‘The Presidency Conference invites the legislator to accept this request and to take into account the new circumstances created by the in-force step of the University Law 2002’. This issue was signed by the following presidents: Klaus Auracher, Medical University of Graz, Stefan Frischauf, Medical University of Innsbruck, Judith Böhm, Medical University of Vienna, Stefan Frey, Montanuniversität Leoben, Silvia Allerbauer, Technische Universität Graz, Gabor Sas, Technische Universität Wien, Christian Müller, Universität für künstische und industrische Gestaltung Linz, Philipp Funovits, Universität Graz, Peter Putzer, Universität Klagenfurt, Marco Ginder, Universität Linz Linz, Manuel de Roo, Universität Mozarteum Salzburg, Nicole Kaltenegger, Veterinärmedizische Universität Wien and Michael Supan, Wirtschaftsuniversität Wien. The government takes this into account – and this obviously violates the basic consensus of the Second Republic! You have also referred to the main association, and I would like to say to you: You know very well that we are obliged by a highly judicial judgment to reorganise the main association, and this is happening at the moment. [[Abg. Silhavy: That's clear because you decided before...!]] I repeat: That's happening! Because the basic consensus was called into question immediately, I would like to give you an example. Mr Cap may have succeeded in taking the initiative to the counter-attack. Maybe tomorrow, some newspaper writes: Yes, that's questionable! Or: There could be something about it! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] Nevertheless, this point will probably fall on your mind – I tell you – because what happened? Do you know what happened in the course of the health reform? . Indeed, the basic consensus of the Republic has been called into question, namely the basic consensus that has so far been assumed to apply the principle of “pacta sunt servanda” that agreements should be respected. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Yes, yes!]] Secondly, the basic consensus has been called into question that if all local authorities reach an agreement that should not be misused in a party political way. [[Abg. May. Worm: Rebus sic stantibus!]] Maybe you have several media on your side for a day, but I don't claim any more and no less: Mr Cap and Mr Gusenbauer! The violation of this basic consensus of the Second Republic will fall on your mind sooner or later!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e14975	Next word: Mr. Dr. Jarolim. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e14993	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Fassleven, in this context, that you are talking about pactability and “pacta sunt servanda”, I find it quite grotesque. Leave You'll tell me at the beginning of my speech. Mr Brinek, you have informed us today that it is a kind of parliamentary self-confidence if you submit an initiative proposal here, which is actually no more and no less – and I think you have to say so openly – as a resolution of the student parliament, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: But no!]] If this is your confirmation of self-confidence, then I think that is embarrassing and embarrassing, I can tell you right at the beginning! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] – Thank you very much! It can't be serious, either, that you can relate this to the Chamber of Labour's election! You know very well, the election of the Chamber of Workers follows a growing right of election. If the Workers' Chamber election were to be carried out all over the country, there would be a “unanimity majority” for social democracy. I don't know why you're right now, just the other way around, saying that's the model. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] The fact is that what you are doing here in the field of universities clearly has the opportunity to help the students. And, Mrs. Brinek, I have to say, because today you have played as a truer of the rule of law and as the one who always runs a correct line at the universities: Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Neugebauer! We all have the 2003 “standard” article mentioned earlier in mind, in which we were able to read that, within the framework of the university law novels you decided at the time, it is a definition for all in the future – namely, from 1. January 2004 – no longer to give. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: There are...!]] On the occasion of the finalisation of your own person, Mrs. Brinek – and that is what I think is so embarrassing – there has been an opinion that it has been agreed that Brinek should not definitely apply for lack of qualifications. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Then there was an intervention, and you have become it! [[Call the SPÖ:Yes! Yes!]] I think it is embarrassing that you stand out here and defend that the student parliament should be dissolved, while at the same time trying to play the first violin! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Yes! You're a disgraceful case!]] I don't go into the personal myself otherwise, but if someone is like you here and tries to shoot in the glass house, then it's necessary! [[Abg. Scheibner: No! But where!]] A brief comment: The Constitutional Court has already drawn up a number of findings which have found that there are constitutional irregularities. Never in the Second Republic, ladies and gentlemen, has there been as many repeals by the Constitutional Court as there are in such important laws. This should also be noted by the Federal Chancellor, who has tried to relativize this here. Before my speaking time is over, I would like to read to you two or three more sentences. To the main association, the Constitutional Court said: The problem of the main reform of the association was that social security companies are excluded from participation in the Board of Directors. – Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! I recommend you read on the homepage of the Constitutional Court how far the Constitutional Court has been doing unconstitutionally here! Against the background of the anniversary celebrations, I think you have to take note: The most arbitrary and dangerous government in the Second Republic is truly this government, which is now in office! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e15116	The next word is an actual correction by Mrs Brinek. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e15138	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Jarolim said: With today's date no university teachers can be pragmatized or definitely presented. - That's wrong! [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: No! I said...!]] That's wrong! The transitional right continues to apply. After this I applied with my age and my requirements. It hardly has anyone or anyone so many positive opinions in front of me – both domestically and abroad! – had like me! And even if you try to discriminate and defame me as a parliamentarian and a university teacher, you will not succeed! I have nothing to hide! [[Abg. Bures: You discriminate against the pensioners!]] [[Call to the SPÖ: This is not an actual correction!]] Leave You don't like these attempts. They're not good at you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e15198	Mr Riepl has now been notified to the House, but the speaking time of his group is exhausted. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry.]] So no one has been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e15225	I will now resume the negotiations on the IX Consultative Group. Mrs Rossmann has spoken. Requested time: 5 minutes. Mrs Colleague, I give the floor to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e15246	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! From a political debate in principle back to an economic policy debate which is now taking place. I would like to follow where my previous speaker, Mrs Weninger, has stopped. [[Call the SPÖ:Weinzinger!]] In fact, it has vehemently criticised and asked the Minister: What to do Are you actually opposed to increasing female unemployment? [[New calls at the SPÖ:Weinzinger!]] – Weinzinger! Sorry! I think it seems to you that there are a number of new entrant programs that are running very, very successful. It also seems to you that there are professional research programmes. I myself have been able to speak by chance to a group of young women who have participated in such a professional research programme. And these were enthusiastic, really enthusiastic, for a totally banal reason, namely, that they are unfortunately – and these are shortcomings in our system! – No one has previously made it clear which profession they should take that they could not actually make the decision which school they went to or will go to alone. With this professional research program, they have made this experience and for their lives very, very much – and thank God still in due time! – learned not to become long-term unemployed. You also miss the fact that there are a lot of qualification programs and courses that are also very successful. On the basic economic debate, it is already to be said that Austria is now in third place in the ranking of the EU-25. This is a success for all entrepreneurs in Austria, but, of course, also for all workers, as well as for the policy that has established the framework for it: with an active location policy, with an active labour market policy, with an economic and financial policy that can be seen in Europe, and finally with a social policy that is achievable! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] First of all, the reduction of KöSt to 25 percent at the right time has caused the boom that Austria is being traded as an expert in the EU, and that many companies are now exploring in Austria – and there is a real boom specifically from entrepreneurs from Germany, South Germany, how to find out – how the economic location is and how to open businesses. But the frustration in Germany about the downside of the reforms and also about wrong reforms has, of course, also contributed to this. In the meantime Germany is unfortunately in the position ranking among 21 countries in the final place, Austria still in seventh place. However, I do not mention this comparison because of joy over Germany and not – although it is close – about the failure of red and green politics in Germany, but rather I mention it with pride, because Austria does not go this way as Germany did, but makes a policy with the social partners, with an active labour market, economic and financial policy to strengthen Austria's economic location. But I also mention this out of concern, because the Austrian economy is closely linked to the German economy. We have already noticed the first effects of economic downturn in Germany and the lack of purchasing power in Austria in the run-down summer tourism season. We're worried about that. And the solution can only be to continue working on these reforms with this active labour market and economic policy, to continue working with these reforms, to continue to be careful and to communicate the 2005 tax reform quickly and quickly internationally. Austria has only opportunities if economic conditions and location attractiveness are ensured in the regions and federal states. While the Styria and Carinthia and also the Burgenland have gained attractiveness, Vienna is cutting off very badly. There is a new study by A.T.Kearney on the attractiveness of cities as economic sites; in this seems Vienna – just listen! – as such bad on that companies are even recommended: [[Abg. Parnigoni: Why don't you talk about Carinthia or Styria?]] Before they settle in Vienna, they should better go to Prague! – The city of Vienna is already that far! You can read this, Mr Parnigoni, I will send it to you. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Where?]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Enjoy! Please!]] They will laugh, there is a detailed study, even quoted in the “tourist austria. ” [[Abg. Parnigoni: Very good! Yes! Let me have this! Thank you!]] As a former tourist speaker, you may read this paper from time to time. It is actually very sad that Prague is now recommended as a location instead of Vienna. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Tell the Minister behind you!]] And I add that this is unfortunately to be found everywhere – thus the circle closes again – where all-powerful red politics, especially red economic policy is at work. [[Abg. Parnigoni:... Bartenstein...!]] The emergency programs of your mayor's chief do not help much for his ten-year anniversary. He's got to sit down and don't jubilate. Just point this out to him! [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. May. Molterer.]] [[Call to the SPÖ: Such an unfavorable one!]] At least we will continue to work to ensure that this federal government continues this economic policy course.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e15396	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Hoscher. 3 minutes welcome.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e15430	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have long waited for Vienna to speak again in this debate on the part of the government parties. That's what happened now. Normally I am used to that by Mr Maier, who then usually hears the answer from me that it is amazing that he is so committed to Vienna. If it had gone after his party, then Vienna, at least our constituency, would have sunk in the flood. But now to Mr Rossmann's statement: The objective figures are those that Vienna, measured at the economic level, belongs to the Top 10 in the European City Hierarchy. In terms of gross domestic product, Vienna is the eighth region of the European Union. With 3.7 percent of the gross regional product, the research rate in Vienna is twice as high as that in total Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Felzmann.]] In Vienna, most business start-ups of all the federal states can be found. Every fourth newly founded operation is created in Vienna. If you are addressing the “tourist austria” with Prague, you should also say that it is – and that is the real reason – that the transport links in Prague are just better developed. [[Abg. Now, listen, listen!]] Sage So please ask your own federal government, because this Federal Government is responsible for the expansion of the infrastructure. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: (in the direction of the Freeman) your vice chancellor! ...! You Hubert!]] Let's just stick to the tourism and leisure sector chapter! It is one of those chapters that falls precisely within the area of this item on the agenda. For example, if you look at the work aids – these are not figures that give attention to the “evil” opposition, the “evil” workers’ chamber, or any evil one of them, to which you have to look at any law in a night-and-nebulous action – then you realize that it is there that all 2.95 percent of the department expenditure is devoted to tourism and historical objects. In other words, that is almost 3 per cent for an industry, which – even after a narrow definition – accounts for 9.6 per cent of gross domestic product. This continues if you look at the target values. For some areas, targets in this sector are defined in the work aids. However, there are no targets for the tourism and leisure industry. This also fits in the picture of how the government parties here in the High House deal with the tourism and leisure industry. I should like to remind you – I do not want to list everything in detail now – that would be the time frame by far – what requests we have made in the last four years: Applications for Alpine protection convention and tourism, climate change and tourism, an initiative proposal to increase the depreciation rate, something the Economic and Social Committee has long called for, in other words, a variety of applications. What happens to these applications? . They will not be put on the agenda either in the Financial Committee and in the Economic Committee, or they will be placed on the agenda, but will be postponed immediately. This is a funeral, but not even a funeral of the first class! This is your “democratic” approach to applications being made here in the House. The opposition is then accused of making total opposition, fundamental opposition. – More than half of the laws in this House will be passed unanimously. But I would like to say once again that there is a motion for a resolution or a motion for an initiative of the opposition, Mr Scheibner, then it will be postponed or not taken on the agenda at all! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This sub-divide will, of course, also be reflected in its downfall in and on its own useful actions, which are provided for in this budget. A very supportive, meaningful action by the Ministry of Economic Affairs is, for example, the priority programme for cultural tourism. This was also called for at the beginning of this year in a press conference by us Social Democrats. But the funds made available for this are simply too small. [[Call the SPÖ: Time, Dietmar!]] If you spend 900 000 € on the budget, this sounds like a lot, but if you look at which topics were addressed alone in the one-day opening event – as the “tourist austria” quoted by Mrs. Rossmann – and therefore a magazine that is not exactly suspected of being undermigrated by the “Group of Revolutionary Marxists” – you realize that you will probably have to rent a stadium to deal with all the topics. Unfortunately, too, there is not enough money available. The representatives of the government parties repeatedly stress, also in connection with this budget chapter, that this budget is characterised by loud “milestones”. In the end, this only leads to one conclusion: Obviously these milestones have set you the view of reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e15513	The next speaker is Mr Grossruck. 4 minutes speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e15547	Mr Parnigoni, wait, let yourself be surprised. Mr President. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Maybe a three-liner!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker said that the government parties would blame the opposition, especially the SPÖ, for its total opposition. – That has not been true for a long time. I think the term that our clubman has shaped is rather true: You're making a zigzag policy! Nobody knows. What do you even want? I'll be back to the budget. They go to this speaker's desk here and call for millions of billions of increases in each budget chapter. On the other hand, you complain of the deficit of 1.9 percent, which is the budget this year. Your chairman has even called for a constitutional anchoring of the zero deficit! Ladies and gentlemen! Tell us what you really want! Do you want a deficit of 10 percent so that all your wishes are fulfilled, or do you want a zero deficit constitutionally anchored? – Zickzack, ladies and gentlemen! The same was true of the financial compensation. Mr Gusenbauer was there, then he was not there, then it was communication difficulties, then he was only informed, then Mr Darabos had to admit that he was there. [[Abg. Bures:... wrong!]] [[Abg. May. Darabos: Gusenbauer wasn't there! You know that!]] So how was it really? Was he there? [[Abg. Scheibner: Doppelganger!]] Wasn't he there? Has Is she reaching a consensus? [[Abg. Silhavy:... exactly described!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Listen again to what the mayor of Vienna said about this procedure! And if you can hear between the lines and read it, you know exactly how much he has criticized your policy here in this House. [[Abg. May. Darabos: You can't hear between the lines! It's pretty difficult!]] So, a zigzag policy! The same can be said in education policy: Once we lock up the small schools; then, when the protest is too big, we don't lock them up anymore. The same happened in the District Headquarters: We are going to block them, as Mr Gusenbauer has demanded, and then the protests come, and then we will not lock them. However, it is not only about this zigzag policy, ladies and gentlemen, but also about a real step-by-step policy. If you look at the new housing program of the SPÖ, which was presented last week, then, I think, you can really talk about stepping back to the previous century or even into the Middle Ages. [[Abg. Bures: I don't know!]] Please read, ladies and gentlemen, in the objective, impartial press as it breaks your program. It is required to reintroduce maximum rents – we have a rental limit. Again, there is a call for an absolutely indefinite rental contract, a reduction in operating costs. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! All that you demand in the residential program, the city of Vienna can pre-excede as the largest home owner of Austria and show how it is going. Try it out! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Once you realize your demands in Vienna – voluntarily you can miss out on higher rents – then we will see what comes out in practice! [[Abg. Neighbors: What is your program?]] With your program the rents are getting more expensive, the housing costs are rising and the apartments are not affordable, because we know that only the good mix we have in Austria in property, in rental apartments, in rents, in sponsored apartments, to make us the fourth cheapest country in Europe as far as housing costs are concerned. [[Abg. Eder: He doesn't understand anything about... housing!]] This is a successful policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] And this is the access we have, not zigzag, not: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder]] Once that, once and for all, nobody knows!, that is, no opposition policy, no total opposition! We know, quite honestly, not what you want anymore! People don't remember that either. Where is the SPÖ possible today, how do you know what it can be fixed to? – There is nothing left, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Bures: You don't know anything!]] Mr. Parnigoni, now extra for you my four-liner: Your shop, it's empty, there's no red thread anymore. Instead, there is only more zig and more Zack day by day.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e15736	The next speaker is Mr Dkfm. Dr. Bauer. Desirable time: 3 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e15754	Mr President. Federal Minister! However, what I know better is that economic policy, which is being made in Austria and Europe, is obviously wrong and accompanied by much criticism. [[Abg. Großruck: You can forget your economic programme!]] If I consider that Europe was a driving force for social and economic progress in the 1970s and 1980s, then it is currently finding that there is more unemployment and less economic power being developed because of the adoption of a wrong economic concept, namely a neoliberal approach. Let's look at the American effects: An average American family is much worse than three years ago, with a median income of $1,500 less each year. 35 million US citizens live below the national poverty line. I mean, there's a few winners there. In fact, during our budget debates – the media have reported about it – we have heard the hollow phrases that are dreary instead of political visions of grass and others, or the penetrating self- praise of the government. We can see that, despite the tax reform, revenue in Austria – income from the wage tax – has increased by 18 percent since the turn in 2000, while capital revenues have increased only by 5 percent and entrepreneurs even pay by 5 percent. This is a false economic policy, an economy that is making poor. A competitive Europe needs a very strong social security. I cannot see in this budget the approaches that are considered an incentive for the labour market, because full employment, very much valued Ladies and gentlemen, is an overarching goal and should be pursued by everyone. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to point out that this economic policy is characterized by a strange “wording” – I would like to call it that way. In Austria, economic policy is described as successful and put down as if it were the great victory of stage. In fact, there has been a very low progress for three years, but the same song has been sung with regard to the Lisbon strategy, which has also been noted by German Chancellor Schüssel, that is, with regard to the challenges for Europe, by talking about successful initiatives over and over again. [[Abg. Scheibner: Who sang?]] In reality, the Kok report proves that one is far from achieving the objectives set in Lisbon, namely full employment and growth. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! It is forecast that development in Europe is even much worse than presented in the interim report. The forecast shows that economic growth will decline by 2015 on the basis of many factors and gross domestic product will fall per capita if economic policy is not significantly changed. In this sense, this is an invitation to Austria, because we should also strive for greater convergence in economic policy in our country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e15810	The next speaker is Mr Bucher. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e15829	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This was said mainly in the direction of opposition: I will try not to act so much party-politically. [[Abg. Oils: Please!]] This will be difficult, I admit, because, of course, in such a debate, it is extremely difficult not to fall into a party political jargon. [[Abg. Oillinger: How do you act then? As a human?]] If you are constantly criticizing the Federal Government and its measures, you will implicitly transfer this conflict to the Austrian economy. What you signal with it is a bad mood in Austria, a bad mood within the Austrian economy, and that is not the case. [[Abg. Gradwell: That's a premise!]] If you look at the surveys, you will see that the majority of entrepreneurs are positive in terms of economic development, future prospects and investment climate. Look Once you accept these surveys, and finally take note of them! [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] I believe that what entrepreneurs fear most is party-political agitation on their backs. It is also not reasonable for the many employees that we make the economic climate in Austria bad. That can't be in your best interests either. It must be in our all interest that we create a positive climate for the many entrepreneurs in Austria, so that they believe in the future and in the country, and that they also have confidence in the country, continue to operate their business and create jobs for the many workers in our country. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Gradwell:... we already agree that the majority of this climate creates!]] Look, there we should meet. You can criticize the various measures if you present a better approach. Mr Grossruck has already mentioned in his statement that we are still waiting for any measures to be taken. You ask for one billion more for each chapter, but don't say how you want to finance all of this, let alone that you can present an economic incentive concept. [[New call for tender of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] We have been called on to cooperate on the fact that there is a tax reform, that there is a relief of €4 billion and that an economic upturn will occur in stages. But you always hear only some discussions within the party, there is an inconclusive attitude to an economic programme we are waiting for to this day. So basically there is no recipe from you, how you can come together with us to an even more dynamic economic development. [[Abg. Gradwell: Let us deal with it in the committee once!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We firmly believe that this federal government is on the right track with this economic course, and it will also find our support.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e15942	Mr Hofmann! I remember that we don't turn our backs on the speakers! The next speaker was Mr Ing. Gartlehner. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e15967	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! I already know that we are discussing each other, because we have different views on economic policy. Of course, this liberal economic course does not fit us. We see too few winners and too many losers in this policy, and therefore, I think, it would be time to adapt this policy and find it back to a consensus policy in Austria that has been lost in recent years. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think we can assume that Minister Bartenstein has shown the right statistics, according to which Austria is not so bad. It is also clear that the forecasts are not so bad, but it should also be said that we have been better in all these areas a few years ago and that Austria is currently in a downward trend in international comparison, although we cannot call ourselves a final light, of course that would be wrong. But let's say what it's like: Our growth is below average, which is a problem once and for all, because inflation is equally high, perhaps even a little higher, which means that we are de facto losing everything that comes from growth through this rail. This low growth is particularly worrying, although the export rate explodes. The dynamic markets in the reform countries like China give us the opportunity to participate. We cannot really be proud of this, or Austrian politics, because this results in positive results. But if I now imagine that the Chinese and the new candidate countries would not have this above-average growth of 8 to 10 percent, I wonder: Where would the Austrian growth be if this export rate had not been given? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] It can already be seen that there is currently no growth in Austria. Domestic growth in that sense does not exist, and that is a shame. This is, of course, the result of this false policy, as we believe. Of course, there is a lot of data and figures to be adjusted using statistics. We know that R&D growth rates have resulted from the changes in the calculations and not from additional expenditure. I hope that this growth will actually take place. In view of my short speaking time, I would just like to point out one essential point: The development of the labour market is unfavourable. Some have already mentioned it and have also pointed out that, although the funds for active labour market policies are getting under way, active labour market policies are not taking place. More and more people have less and less money at their disposal. We are trying more or less to bring people from statistics, unemployment statistics, with these increasing resources of active labour market policy. [[Abg. Pepper: Time!]] This means that no efficient and good work will be done in the sense of reintegration of people into employment. I have already received a warning from my folder, so I close this speech abruptly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e16015	The next speaker is Dr. Maier. Desirable time: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e16034	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the context of the chapter to be discussed, a little of the views of foreign investors should also be taken into account. It is quite gratifying when there are foreign investors who believe that Austria is a location with high stability, with low profit taxation, that there are highly qualified and highly motivated workers, and that due to our geopolitical situation, access to Central and Central European markets is optimal. I think we should also take a little note and note that investment in the Voest, in the Magna power plants or in BMW, or the recently made investment decision by Escada, are profoundly encouraging decisions that help the Austrian economy. I was at the Munich media days four weeks ago and also had a little experience of economic policy in Germany there. Of course, the economic debate in Germany is marked by job losses at Opel, by wage reductions at VW, by job declines at Porsche, and the problematic situation at Quelle Karstadt has actually overlaid the discussion. The fact that last but not least at Schlecker was announced that 800 jobs will be lost has given de facto the rest. Gerhard Seiler, the former leader of the ORF, who is certainly very much appreciated by you, also had to take back the economic forecast for the RTL Group within these media days and predict growth almost with zero. His counterpart de Posch from the SAT1 and Pro7 group had to say something similar. And that is dramatic in view of the German situation. I believe that we should therefore be pleased – the Federal Minister has also mentioned this in his statement – that investment activity is forecast by plus 4 percent for the next year, with the European average below that exports are forecast by plus 10 percent and consumption expenditure by plus 2.1 percent. This is, after all, a much more beautiful way than we can experience it in the debate in the Federal Republic of Germany. It is also gratifying when you talk to those bodies that negotiate with foreign investors who point to the good situation in Austria. I also experienced this in Berlin, where I was ten days ago. There is, by the way, an Austrian who is Chairman of the Board of the Berlin City Operations and who says: It's just great if you live as an Austrian in Berlin because you're told what a great tax policy is being done in Austria. Therefore, it is also not surprising that 158 of the currently 380 companies with which intensive business settlement is being negotiated in Austria are from Germany. I would just like to point out very briefly that during this conversation with the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Berliner Stadtbetriebe, a Vienna company, I have asked myself how it looks about the garbage charges, the canal charges and the heating costs. All these costs are dramatically cheaper than in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: As in Vienna!]] As in Vienna, of course. I would invite colleagues to visit Berlin for a short time. There is a related mayor there – I am now party-politically related – who could provide you with some know-how.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e16073	Mr Marizzi is now speaking. Speaking time: 3 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e16092	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I too have some positive points to mention, although Mrs Rossmann spoke negatively about Vienna and meant that there was a lot bad in Vienna. Mrs. Colleague! In the course of an economic debate, it must be said that in 2003 39 foreign companies settled in Vienna. This is 48 percent of all companies that have settled in Austria. And the companies that have settled have brought 1,000 jobs to Vienna. A sum of €1.2 billion has thus been invested in Vienna, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] I could give you some more positive examples. – Mr colleague, they have settled because Vienna offers a good investment climate. We don't always let Vienna make us mad of you, ladies and gentlemen! - Yeah, I didn't say anything. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Murauer: Without Austria!]] Vienna has a good investment climate. But now back to the economic debate. Mr Mitterlehner said that the figures mentioned by Mr Moser were wrong. I looked at this explicitly in the Federal Estimate E 2005. For economic promotion, 133 million are planned, and it is cut by 17 million – despite stagnant economic growth. Support measures for industry and industry – Table 22, Table 22, are planned for 634 million, which will be reduced by 14 million – despite stagnant economic growth. You know that; that's only 2%, but it's been shortened. Mr Moser said nothing wrong, Mr Mitterlehner. I am not talking about funding for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are reduced by €16 million to €76 million. This is quite contrary to what the President of the Chamber of Commerce, Leitel, meant, namely, that this area should be increased. Another point, Mr Mitterlehner: You said: In 1997, the Social Democrats were in the government, and at that time unemployment was much higher than today. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: In 1998 she was 7 percent!]] – I can remind you of the following: In the years 1997/98 the ÖVP was in the Federal Government, and the Minister of Economic Affairs was appointed by the ÖVP and called Farnleitner. You seem to have pushed this out, Mr Mitterlehner. Apparently, this is very amusing for some of you. 240 000 people are currently out of work, Mr Mitterlehner! [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: You're correcting something I've never said!]] Let's take a look at the balance sheet since you've been in the government: 2000: 194 000 unemployed, 2001: 203 000, 2002: 232,000 and 2003: 240 000 unemployed. We hope that this will not continue, because otherwise it is really diletantic.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e16167	The next speaker is Mrs Steibl. 4 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e16185	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Economy creates work, economy secures work, and this government secures the future of Austrians through the tax reform – I have already waited for your calls to know if you listen; thanks many times – and through the economic recovery packages. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni]] [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] On the one hand, this leads to discharges, and on the other hand, measures are also being put in place that will work in the long term and strengthen the recovery. [[Abg. Eder: Which one? What measures?]] For example, there is – please listen! – the new research release, investments are easier and the construction industry is growing. In addition, a great deal is being done for business start-ups. I should also like to thank Mr Bartenstein, who is aware of the importance of having young entrepreneurs and who are being supported in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! What is the result of these measures? The result is an expected economic growth in Austria of 2.5 percent next year, and this also confirms our courage to reform, it pays off. It pays off because we trust people and do not find ourselves in the Shartal valley, as Mr Darabos has said today. - You're just doing bad things, that's all I want to say. We're responsible. - How does the SPÖ see that? [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Listen, please. The SPÖ wants to make further debts, just as it was at the time when it was in the government, and the SPÖ wants to increase the tax rate and thus impose more taxes on citizens. We have decided on another way: We lower taxes so that families have more opportunities to invest in life and business. [[Abg. Parnigoni: And the workers should pay everything!]] That is why it is also particularly important for us to relieve businesses of their resources to create jobs and to secure them in the long term. [[Abg. Parnigoni: What workers pay!]] Mr. Col., with these investments we are strengthening the location of Austria. A concrete example of this: Magna Steyr in Graz, a branch with over 9,000 employees. Only recently Magna Steyr was able to draw a new Chrysler order to land. This means that 650 new jobs will be created for the Graz site, and I think you can be proud of that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to repeat one point that has been raised again and again today: This government is also particularly important to increase the female employment rate. In Austria, this quota is constantly going up – not down, as the colleagues from the SPÖ and the Greens claim. It is also much higher than the EU average. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: However, unemployment is rising significantly!]] I think that the reports that come about the APA are not wrong, and I therefore believe that these polemic statements on the part of the opposition do not do women well, but that they are more negative. The criticism that we would not do anything against female unemployment is simply wrong. For example, a female employment rate of 59 percent in 2000 is now compared with a working rate of 63 percent. So I think this is a positive increase; that in the EU average is 55 percent. I would also like to say the following because the difference between women's salaries is repeatedly raised: According to a report from the “Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung” – at least this is positive, and I would like to close it – women in Austria still deserve the best in comparison to the other European states. That does not mean that there are no differences in salaries between men and women! – I would like to give you this article as bed linen, you can read it. In this sense: I think we'll shape the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e16289	Mr Krainer, I have come to the Minutes of your speech this afternoon. For your final sentence, which was no longer observable to me, which I do not want to repeat at this point, I give you a call for order. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You should believe us!]] The next item is the speech by Mr Oberhaidinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e16320	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Steibl, are you sure that, as a presentation of this speech, you did not catch up with an ÖAAB's wish programme, with which you unfortunately could not enforce God's position vis-à-vis your federal government? [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] This has not really had much to do with reality. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! On a slightly different subject, which also has its impact on the budget and on the budget: In fact, it should be 1. October the – you prefer to hear this word as “Austrian electricity solution”, Mr. Minister – Austrian Strom AG are positively completed. Unfortunately, almost two months later, there is still no solution in view, and therefore my question: Does the delay have something to do with the intervention of the Austrian antitrust authority? Has it perhaps delayed the conclusion of the Austrian electricity solution? I should like to remind you that the EU Commission and the Austrian Antitrust Authority have already noted in advance that if certain conditions are met, there will be no problems for competition in Austria and that nothing actually speaks against this Austrian Strom AG. Federal Minister! If we want to protect our EVUs from enemy takeovers by the really big ones within the framework of the European Union – ‘protection against the sale of our hydropower’ – and if our electricity industry as competitors in the European Union really wants and really wants to have opportunities, then the way to a functioning Austrian electricity solution cannot be avoided. I see this as one of the few possibilities. Federal Minister! We still have the cheapest electricity tariffs compared to our neighbouring countries, except the Czech Republic, and not entirely within the European Union. If we make ourselves, I mean, but increasingly dependent on foreign electricity supplies, I am not sure how long we can keep these cheap electricity tariffs. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Hydropower!]] Yes, if we give appropriate incentives for the construction of such plants, then I am definitely in favour, but ecostrom is another subject, Mr Auer. Topics such as security of supply, network cost transparency in the Austrian electricity market and much more concern the public. These are all questions and problems that clear answers and solutions are expected from the Minister of Economic Affairs. [[Abg. Eder: Right!]] I can ask you to do this, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e16396	The next item is the report by Mr Schweisgut. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e16414	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! First of all, let me address the words of the SPÖ tourism speaker Hoscher, who was more or less sorry about tourism policy and tourism in Austria for 4 minutes 37 seconds, about the fact that he found only 2% in the budget estimate, with a GDP share of 9 percent. He lamented his rejected requests, but he also lamented about cultural tourism that it was too little supported. I think that Mr Hoscher should perhaps consider whether the share of reports on tourism on the part of SPÖ is perhaps not even 1 per cent or even less and should not change. I believe that the tourism industry is a success, and that is a success that is hardly likely to be in another country like Austria. Over the last few years, we have had ever increasing numbers of tourism, and we have been successful in various areas of tourism. Today, there are about 37,000 restaurants in Austria in the gastronomy, which generate approximately €12.6 billion a year, we have about 45 million nights, and we have had sales increases in the last year despite a slight decline in the number of nights – and this is clearly above economic growth. We have additional opportunities in the next few years – and even though the German economic weakness has made us able to cope in recent years, the prerequisite for the future is certainly not bad. We have the chance of increasing rates from Eastern Europe, from the new EU Member States, where Austria currently has only a 4 percent share of the returns. There should be a 10-percent increase in the next few years. To the budget: Of course, it would be desirable everywhere to transfer even more from the budget to the individual sectors, but I believe that a budget must also be made reasonable in the economic field. In this context, I would like to thank our Minister, who always has an open ear for special concerns in tourism. In 2003, we recorded around €830 million in investment in tourism in Austria, plus 20 percent compared to the previous year. In this year too, an increase is expected, particularly in relation to quality improvement. Of course also the topic of “Top Tourism Promotion” which can be found in the budget: There the budget has been expanded from € 15 million to € 23 million. I would also like to refer to EU projects – LEADER and INTERREG – where co-financing has been increased from € 800 000 to € 2.3 million compared with the last budget. The Austrian advertising, which does excellent work, which puts Austria's tourism internationally in the right spotlight, receives €24 million. As far as culture is concerned, I think one should be so honest and look – not only in the economic budget, but also in other budgets – for tourism-related expenditure. I have already said this in the field of agriculture: Farm holidays; in the cultural area: Conservation of our cultural monuments; cultural promotion for events, of course, is part of tourism. I also mention the Marchfeld locks, where there is a revitalization. As far as the holiday regulations are concerned, we have sought a European-based scheme. There will also be improvements in order to improve the distribution over the year for entrepreneurs in the future and thus increase rates. The success story of Austrian tourism will certainly continue in the future – in the context of this federal government. I wish everyone good luck. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e16468	The next item is the report by Mr Riepl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e16487	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bartenstein, you have said today that many companies in the country are doing well. I think that's true, too, but it's important to point out that it's not everybody's doing well. Many companies have done well – and they are no longer available today. Of course, the concern is that in an economic policy, as you do, there will be a risk that more than one company will go badly. Example: Basic. For years workers have believed that they are doing very well. – Today there is no longer any reason! At the VA Tech we now experience an uncertainty, a complete inconsistency of the political line. Perhaps you can say a word about what your position is, Minister of State. Finally, as far as Semperit is concerned, politics was no longer ready to think or help about this business. It is difficult to assess your government policy wisely. The present is good, the future will be even better, you said, Federal Minister. – I ask you, Mr Minister, to look down a little bit further – and not just keep your head on looking down a little further at the level where people are; looking at it might be a bit more interesting. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Who sold Semperit?]] Four years of conservative politics – and in Austria we have the highest October unemployment in the Second Republic. You're responsible for this! Labour market policy is your responsibility, Minister! So, October's highest unemployment – and it's through a policy that also affects you, Federal Minister Bartenstein. More than 300 000 people are reported without a job, 224,000 unemployed, around 49 000 in training, and around 29 000 are waiting for the pension, enjoying pension advances, obtaining transitional or similar benefits. However, on the part of the government parties, this is always the case: Compared to Europe and other regions, we are well there anyway! [[Abg. Grill: What are the numbers of employees?]] As a percentage, all of that is expressed. But it should be asked, as I believe, whether you, Federal Minister, really believe that unemployment in our country is better if you hear that unemployment is higher in other countries in Europe. – I don’t think that’s true; that’s no comfort for them. On the development of unemployment: This is very interesting in that unemployment is rising in the west of our country, but it is falling in Vienna. Vienna is thus a model for other federal states. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Look at the numbers! [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] The lower rise in the unemployment rate in Vienna is due to the fact that an optimal urban policy is being pursued in Vienna; the highest public support for this policy is given; moreover, 215,000 jobs are provided in Vienna for non-Vienna. For youth employment – by the way – most financial resources are made available in Vienna, namely € 11 million in 2004/2005, in addition to federal funds. The economy is going well – and that is the message I want to repeat – but many people are not. The many hundreds of thousands of people without a job are really not doing well: They feel the social cold, they feel the reconstruction of the social state of this conservative government – and they also feel the reconstruction of democracy, which this government clearly tries. Ladies and gentlemen, we are thus experiencing a situation in which conservative politics first looks at others – and then at workers and at people. I am therefore saying: It's time for a change!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e16557	The next item is Mrs Marek's speech. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e16576	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Federal Chancellor Schüssel has recently shown once again very impressively that this Federal Government acts, if necessary, precisely and efficiently and sets out initiatives. In concrete terms, I mean the provision of 800 apprenticeship training places by the federal government as well as another 1 000 by the municipalities and the countries. Ladies and gentlemen! This impressive figure is the most recent among the many successes that the German Federal Government's apprentice, Commercial Council Egon Blum, has achieved. At this point I would like to take the opportunity to express our greatest thanks to Mr Commercial Council Blum for his commitment and work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The importance of this issue proves to us the numerous activities alone in this year. The AMS will of course also make the necessary funds available in 2005. A few facts about this: 15 apprentice acquisitions have succeeded in moving Austrian companies, according to the WKÖ, to provide a total of more than 1,000 new apprenticeships. 1 800 new teaching places are created and provided, as mentioned above, by the Federal Government, by the countries and by the communities. 500 over-company training places are provided in this year, in addition to the 7 300 existing JASG training places, which have been extended from ten to twelve months, according to § 30 of the Vocational Training Act. – The financing of other such training places is, of course, also ensured in the coming year. Ladies and gentlemen! This mix of measures enabled us to achieve a clear relaxation in the apprenticeship area, as also the current labour market statistics show. Thus, much less young people than last year are looking for apprenticeships; the AMS also works faster than before. In the framework of the “Job4Youth” initiative, around 9,600 young people have now been qualified and employed. The cost of this was almost €50 million – and this programme will continue in 2005. That is why I am particularly sorry if the SPÖ has nothing to say in this area – apart from indiscriminate polemics – but where it is responsible, there is little to do with it. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, a brief look at Vienna, especially for you, Mr Hoscher. While at the end of October 2004, the number of job seekers in Austria fell by 2.9 percent, they rose by 9.9 percent in Vienna. The number of open apprenticeships available was down by 10.4 percent in Vienna. – We even had an increase of 0.9 percent across Austria. Once again, ladies and gentlemen: The comparison makes us sure!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e16633	The next item is Mrs Scharer's speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e16651	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My dear colleague, exactly what you have done, shows what happens by unilaterally pursuing labour market policies. Indeed, it is true that the apprenticeship situation has relaxed, but by the end of October, over 30,000 young people aged 19 to 24 who have a good education, but not job prospects, were unemployed. If you don't see these groups, then that's exactly what happens: you put the funds into one area and you ignore the other target groups. [[Interference by Federal Minister Dr Bartenstein]] More than 42 000 older unemployed, i.e. unemployed over 50 years of age, are noted, which are only difficult to accommodate in the labour market. [[new interim remark by Federal Minister Dr Bartenstein]] But you, Minister, continue to boast of the third lowest unemployment rate in Europe. This, ladies and gentlemen, does nothing to help the unemployed who are concerned about issues of existence every day. We reject this argument on this high level of unemployment! Minister! While they repeatedly praise the performance of the AMS, how do you deal with this most important labour market service company, with this institution, which has to deal with more and more services at the same level of staff? According to Wifo's forecast, in the next few years, unemployment will be around 240 000 people on average per year. The funding budget has been doubled and needs to be administered – over time –, the eligible group of persons has tripled, and the political demands such as the right to training measures and so on and in the near future above all the processing of the service check means much more requirements for the AMS employees. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein:... will funding budget be doubled?]] I believe that what you have answered to my question in the Committee on Budgets is what you will do, on the basis of the calculation of staff needs, according to which 500 employees are missing from Austria, are going to do, answer, ignore, namely: The AMS, which is doing excellent work, will benefit from its rationalisation potential by 2007 in line with the further organisational and technical development in order to meet the further increase or further increasing requirements. You, Mr Minister, have the internal and external personnel calculation from the Board of Directors and the Central Works Council on the table. Missing 490 schedules! They had only one buttock left in the Committee on Budgets. This is not an activity to counteract high unemployment with active labour market policies – and this includes human resources. This is out of the question and is not acting. Minister! Dropping You do not recognize the Europe-wide AMS!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e16706	The next item is Mrs Mikesch's speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e16741	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to focus very briefly on Mrs Sburny's comments, which today said that small and medium-sized enterprises are ill-informed. I really can't allow this to happen as a district superintendent of the Chamber of Commerce. Although 87 percent of businesses have Internet access, the Chamber of Commerce is very likely to rely on the personal information discussion, where we “transfer” a lot. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Sburny: That just doesn't work!]] Can you imagine how many contacts per year there are in Lower Austria in our district offices, departments and specialist bodies at all? – A total of 116 000 at 78 000 farms. You can see very easily, we really have contact with our businesses. That is why I would like to thank our employees in the Chambers of Commerce very much today, because they do excellent work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But now to the budget. The budget is the political will cast in figures. As an entrepreneur, I know that a budget is not just something for the next year for which the budget is drawn up, but for many years in advance, so that you can achieve and implement set goals – and we, the government parties, do that. We reduce the tax and tax rate to at least 40 percent by 2010. Not responding is the foreign exchange, but making it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is the best economic policy, the best economic promotion and the most effective labour market policy for the future! Not for nothing, Austria is one of the three best locations in all of Europe. This is the right to a sustainable budget policy. Sustainability starts in small, and already happens very, very much. We have launched the project “WIR – We in the region” on the part of the Economic Association, where approximately 1 000 projects have been submitted in Austria. I would like to congratulate everyone who has been awarded this. Sustainability in the economy is linked to regional structures, with our small and medium-sized enterprises. That's what we did at our club survey on 4. ==References== That is why I would like to give you a small example from this club survey today. [[Abg. May. Posch: Now it's coming!]] A city, Mank, with many faces has already started many projects. One of the most important projects in recent years: It's a fairy tale that comes from life in a small city, a fairy tale to think about. [[Abg. May. Posch: Wolfi in the wonderland!]] And while it is true that the center of the village has died out by too few purchases on the spot, after a long time the fiffikus has come from outside and has carried in from outside: [[the speaker shows the fabric figure]] It is also different, club life can be strengthened again, local businesses can be strengthened if we strengthen the place! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: (in the direction of Abg. May. Posch) That doesn't mean that there's much to be learned from the teachers, that's clear!]] I think also the point of approach: Consciousness begins with the children! is very, very important. The very word “consciousness ” is a magic word for me. But this is linked to positive messages, with courage and consequence, because economic policy has a lot to do with mood. Good mood means safety and stimulates new investments. The disease and slender step on the part of the opposition certainly does not help us any further! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Sometimes, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, I would like you to come to you once the fiffikus to open your eyes on certain things.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e16871	The next item is the speech by Mr Schopf. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e16890	Madam President. Mr. Minister! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! If you listen to some of the speakers from the government parties, you can or might come to the view: [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: You can learn a lot!]] The economic policy of this government is in order, there is more employment, there is less unemployment. [[Demonstrative applause and bravado with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! Reality is a completely different one. I have been confronted in my profession as a trade union secretary in recent weeks with a number of very specific cases where the government has failed where there are no ordinary conditions. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] I also mention facts: Company Carrera-Optyl in Traun: 473 workers there have lost their jobs. [[Abg. What have you done, Minister?]] We are currently negotiating in the company Drefs in Peuerbach – a company of the electrical, electronics industry; 120 jobs are transferred to the Federal Republic of Germany. 120 jobs! [[Abg. What have you done, Minister?]] We are currently negotiating a social plan of the Högl company in the Schärding district, where 60 women will lose their jobs in the next few days. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] We have the situation – Mr Mitterlehner, listen! – that more than 200 women have recently lost their jobs at Eterna in Schärding, a shirt and blouse production, due to a shift to Hungary. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] A few days ago, we were confronted with the fact that the famous gear factory Passau, the former Steyr-Daimler-Puch AG, will soon be sold with nearly 600 employees. We have known since 1 p.m. on the basis of information from ZF Passau's Financial Board that the entire assembly will be transferred to the Federal Republic of Germany. Once again, 200 colleagues and colleagues are losing work in this company, and the rest of the sector of production with almost 400 employees is sold to a company that is not yet certain whether production à la longue can be kept in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: What can the government do for this?]] I am thinking of the company Steiff in Grieskirchen, where a few weeks ago 154 colleagues lost their jobs because they closed the operation in Grieskirchen. Ladies and gentlemen! If you look at the statistics – Mr Minister, our colleague Riepl has already pointed out – you can see that we have a record unemployment! We had an average of 194,000 unemployed in Austria in 2000 – I would like to repeat it – and today we have 240 000, and almost 50,000 are in re-trainings, in Foundation measures. So there are over 270 000 people who are currently looking for work in this Republic. Ladies and gentlemen! The women's sector is particularly affected by this problem. 108 071 Members are looking for employment in this Republic, almost 26 000 of us are in foundations and re-trainings. The youth sector detto: We have 38,500 young people who are currently seeking employment, we have almost 19 000 young people currently in re-training, so it is 57 000. Minister! If you look at the budget in detail, you come to the view: It would be necessary to increase the resources needed for active labour market policies and the staff needed by the AMS. 500 planning posts are missing, and the experts from the AMS already tell us that various services need to be employed and services in the field of professional information need to be shortened. I would ask you to take note of this. That is also the reason why our group, the Social Democracy, cannot vote in favour of this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e16995	The next item is the speech by Mr Ledolter. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e17014	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not surprised that it is not easy for trade union secretaries to negotiate, because, ladies and gentlemen, if the companies and the responsibilities listen, I can already imagine that they are missing. By the way, you also have to ask yourself: Why and why? [[Abg. Oellinger: Hello! Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go,]] Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that there is not much to gain in an economic debate for the opposition is also known. Not for nothing the competence of the SPÖ and also the Green permanently disappears. But you just need to look in the rows: It is neither the business speaker nor the budget speaker of the SPÖ here, it is also the... [[Abg. Silhavy: What about the ÖVP?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The Secretary-General of the Economic Association is there, my colleagues, but where is your economic professor? Where are those who always want to invent the economy? – They shine by absence! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Eder: What do you think you are...?]] Actually, you have to be happy... [[Abg. Oils: Who are you?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You must be glad, ladies and gentlemen, that you do not accept the challenge of the economy. [[Calls and calls between representatives of SPÖ and Greens as well as the ÖVP.]] When you think of the zigzag course of a colleague Matznetter, with an economic concept and the withdrawals, the back and forth and the threats... – But of course, Mr. Colleague, with the greatest pleasure! [[Abg. Brosz: Are you a delegate?]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Take a look at it!]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Oye...!]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Take a look at it!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If you listen to what's going on – with tax increases, with anti-economic measures – then you don't have to wonder. However, the fact is – and we stick to the facts, ladies and gentlemen! –: [[Abg. Eder: You can go already! Sit back!]] We had double economic growth within the euro area in 2003 as it is the average. We have less than half the unemployment, we have less than half the budget deficit, ladies and gentlemen. The sum of economic recovery packages up to the tax reform is at least an economic impulse of more than €3.6 billion! [[Abg. Eder: Such a prepotent man!]] A best indication that the economy, that the companies have confidence in Austria's economic location, shows the balance sheet of the Austrian Business Agency. [[Abg. Eder: I don't know! Swift something therefore!]] It becomes clear that in 2003 82 companies came more to Austria, that some 2,000 jobs have been created, and that the questions, because confidence in the economic location is true... – Mrs Colleague, listen carefully! [[Abg. Eder: Such a sulphur!]] [[Abg. Silhavy: How many went bankrupt?]] Then, in the next speech, you will also do less bad, but perhaps do more courage, which is good for the business location again. [[Abg. Silhavy: How many businesses have gone bankrupt?]] Then you can also see, if you turn to Lower Austria, that more than 5,700 new entrants have happened there, that there is an incredibly prosperous business and local policy in Lower Austria, that MedAustron will provide 120 million € and several hundred million of follow-up investments, that this consistent path of change, through flexibility and innovativeness of the economic and labour location of Austria, is highly appreciated, that we are on the trail of overcrowding and that we are on a course around which many envys us, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Riepl: The time has expired!]] [[Abg. Oils: Do you feel better if you knock on your chest?]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e17299	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig's next speech. [[Unrest in the hall]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e17329	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Ledolter, we do not want to do bad. But I think we will still be able to show your shortcomings in the debate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: He doesn't even listen!]] The colleagues from the government parties are so proud that next year 2.4 million people will no longer have to pay taxes, and believe that they will benefit so greatly from the tax reform. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] It doesn't matter how many. [[Abg. Grill: That doesn't matter how many!]] Mr Minister, you probably know that of these 2.4 million or 2.5 million people, only 2.2 million people will actually benefit from the tax reform, because the others have not yet paid any taxes – and they do not benefit from the tax reform at all! I hope you will know that too, Mr Grillitsch. Secondly, you probably also know how little these people deserve. It is 1 100 € gross, and of these 1 100 € gross, these people have to survive – despite your load packages, despite your 44 load packages! They are also always talking about the highest employment rate. Nor is this claim true because – we have heard this today – this calculation contains child benefit providers, presenters and civilians. You just close your eyes before that. Unfortunately, I don't have much time anymore; I still have so much to say. But it is important for me to say something about labour market policy on and on its own. I do not believe that this is a really sensible, active labour market policy. There have been problems due to the redeployment of the funds. Now young people and older workers have been “privileged” and unemployment among women has increased extremely, and long-term unemployment has widened to an enormous extent last year. I therefore appeal to you: Make available sufficient resources to ensure that a proper active labour market policy can be made for all the unemployed people affected!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e17397	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Moser to speak. Mr President, you know the Rules of Procedure. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e17418	Madam President. Mr Ledolter said that it was best to prove on the Austrian Business Agency's balance sheet that the number would have increased by 82 from 2002 to 2003. - That's wrong! It is true that the total number of settlements was 82. – Read this in the Minutes!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e17454	The next item is the speech by Mr Steindl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e17473	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr. Walter Schopf, you have shown us very impressively how important the conditions for the economy in Austria are. I would like to point out in my statement that the governments of Schüssel I and II have put in place a number of measures which have significantly improved the conditions of competition and location in Austria. According to Wifo, for example, economic packages I and II have achieved a growth rate of 0.75 percent in 2004. [[Abg. Riepl: And more unemployment!]] For example, the 10 percent increase in investment premium and the 7 percent special depreciation for structural measures would be mentioned. Furthermore, the following measures have successfully improved the conditions of the Austrian economy, ensuring employment: increasing the R&D quota, the 25 percent research exemption, or the 8 percent research premium. The main reform was the tax reform of the first and second stages with a total relief of about €3 billion, with equal relief for entrepreneurs and workers. The upcoming Köst reduction from 34 to 25 percent will result in a discharge of just under € 1 billion and thus enable a real, real attraction of the Austrian site, dear Walter. There will again be more and more new businesses, and the jobs that will become available there and there will certainly find a good use there. The 50 per cent return on the unclaimed profit will allow small and medium-sized enterprises an additional liquidity and an additional equity. The price reduction of income tax, which mainly favours small and average income recipients, as well as the improvement of transfer services – such as child care money or single-earner deductions – will of course also significantly affect mass purchasing power. How does economic policy actually affect? – In the final synthesis report on the ranking of the EU-15 – this ranking compares the economic locations – we have already advanced to third place from seventh place in 2003. It is not absolute figures that should be referred to here again and again today, but actually ratios and the corresponding quotas. The employment rates show a clear positive picture of this. Ladies and gentlemen! My speaking time is over, but the comparison makes me sure: The Federal Government is on the right track with its active and responsible economic policy, a zigzag course à la opposition would be fatal!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e17512	Next, Mr Spindelberger. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e17531	Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour! I also emphasize the word because I believe that until today you have not registered at all that you should also show responsibility for the working people in our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You, Federal Minister, are talking on the one hand about record employment, but not about the fact that, if we converted this to full-time jobs, in recent years we have found much fewer people in our country who have found employment. Why not say that more and more people are working part-time or have to do a small job? Why not say a word about the 280 000 unemployed in Austria? But Mr Steindl is here and says: It's all right with us! – You have to answer these horror figures, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I hear in your vocabulary only two words: Austria. But for your part, only the entrepreneurs are meant to be! How else could it be that you cheer this up in the high house: The additional wage costs were reduced by 10 percent. Yes, great – but only for big entrepreneurs like you! But the incomes of the working population have fallen to the same extent, also by 10 percent. Why not talk about it? – With your non-social policy, the rich are getting richer and more and more people in Austria are getting into poverty traps. That is how it looks, and that is a policy “pure cynicism”, Minister! You, Mr Minister, also said that the tax reform is great, which is the step in the right direction. – Well, you're saying that! If entrepreneurs like Mr Prinzhorn and you in the tax reform “abcashen” as much as 18 000 payroll taxpayers, I realize that you call it super because this is a policy for your own money bag. Have you escaped, Mrs Marek, because you said that your eyes have to be opened, because of the lack of policy in recent years, youth unemployment has increased by 48 percent? – An unsocial policy that we want nothing to do with!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e17595	The next item is Mrs Machne's speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e17615	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! The tax reform 2004 and 2005 brings relief to all Austrians, an increase in family income and also an attraction of the Austrian economic and labour location. [[Abg. Reheis: This is just not true!]] These advantages of tax reform have already been explained in detail by my colleague Mr Steindl. I come personally from a beautiful but economically weak district with 10 percent unemployed. [[Abg. Riepl: What are you doing about it?]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, job creation and security are, of course, our top priority. With us too, the tax reform has its positive effects, especially in the future, next year it will be effective. I would like to explain this on the basis of a few examples. Liebherr Lienz is a refrigerator manufacturer, an international group that currently has 1,200 employees and, of course, has a corresponding importance for our district. Liebherr continues to expand, will create additional jobs. Of course, not only the tax reform – but also – is the reason for this, it is especially the good employees that the company has with us. The second example is the company Durst Phototechnik, a high-tech company that produces inkjet printers and is in this segment of global market leaders. Thirst also invests on the basis of well-trained employees, but also on the basis of good tax policy in Austria. The company Durst will also create additional jobs – for East Tyrol enormously important! I was particularly pleased with the statement made by the Executive Director of Infineon, Mrs. Monika Kircher-Kohl, whom I still knew and appreciated as Vice-Chairman of Villach. She has confirmed to me that this tax reform is also very important for the company Infineon and secures Villach's workplace. She found special praise for the research initiative; the company Infineon has hired 700 researchers. The tax reform is undoubtedly a big throw of this federal government and has a positive impact on all parts of the population. Austria is also experiencing high international recognition through the reforms implemented, as can be read especially in the foreign media. I thank the Federal Government for the right steps at the right time. A good way for Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e17663	The next item is Mrs Bures. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e17682	Madam President. Mr Federal Minister, first of all, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you are responsible for a very important segment of housing, namely non-profit housing. These are at least 375 000 rental apartments in Austria, i.e. every fourth apartment, for which you also bear the responsibility because of your legal possibilities. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that you have the responsibility to ensure that there is sufficient means of housing which make it possible for the majority of Austrian families to do so. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I am therefore saying this because I have had the impression in all committee discussions in the Building Committee that the promotion of housing is not very important to you. In any case, you have not been able to make a positive statement. Secondly, Mr Federal Minister, I would like to tell you today that it is extremely important for us to stick to what you have been doing in the past. They are exclusively concerned with restricting the rental rights. They have been engaged in ruining 62,000 non-profit homes. They have been working to increase the rent level and also to boost housing costs over energy costs. This is a policy we reject. Therefore, in contrast to you, who were only concerned with squatters and the limitation of tenants' rights, the Social Democracy has developed a housing policy program in which the tenants are at the heart of the land and where, regardless of whether they are tenants or landlords, we are concerned that housing must be a fundamental right, that housing is something that you can afford not only but all Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e17721	Next item is the report by Mr Dr. Huainigg. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e17739	Thank you, Mr President. Minister! High house! I would like to address the labour market situation for disabled people. There is a bundle of measures taken by this Federal Government, which also shows its effect: In 2002, there were 31,000 people with disabilities who had been reported as unemployed, in 2003 there were 30,500, and in this there was the first turn, which was contrary to the general trend. If one compares the figures of October 2003 with those of October 2004, then one again sees an improvement in the labour market situation by 5.8 percent, or, in other words, it has succeeded in creating 1,600 new jobs for disabled people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This is particularly important as employment goes hand in hand with integration into the world of life. Another important measure was the integrative vocational training that we decided last year in the form of a four-party agreement. This law entered into force with the school year 2003/2004, and already in December last year 300 teaching places for disabled people were reported, with July 2004 already 700 teaching places, and now in October 2004 there are 1 100. This is also a partial success of a campaign launched by Minister Bartenstein with Prime Minister in September, “Teach Without Barriers”, in which the social partners also participated as well as media that reported on best practice examples. It has also succeeded in taking entrepreneurs on board, because of the 1 100 new apprenticeships 600 are in the free economy, and this is a great success. Of course, one must say that there are problems and problems over and over again, but to create new jobs for disabled people, that is Challenge, a challenge we have to face, and so do we. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e17782	Next, Mrs Mag. Muzzle on the floor. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e17800	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to return to the chapter on building and living, to the remarks of my colleague Bures, and to take two examples of the missing policy in this area. The BIG apartments were treated in an analogy with the BUWOG approach in accordance with the motto of “privatising at any price” – no debate in the Committee! – that is, past Parliament, and if this was then raised in the Committee during a general debate, we have not received any information from you. This procedure is undemocratic. The fact that the interests of the merchant-interested tenants have not been observed is unsocial and has not interested you. The results of this client policy can be read in the 2005 budget estimate. We have reduced revenue by 78 percent to € 60 million. This is due to the deterioration of the family silver in the form of apartments to BIG investors. It was also pointed out by the Court of Auditors that the interests of tenants have not been respected. The second example is the transfer of the three dishes from the Riemergasse to the City Tower Vienna. The Riemergasse has been empty for more than a year. The amount of emptying costs is € 1.5 million per year. There are no postmen, and it is unprofessional to settle down and have no post-maids. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The fact that fire is also on the roof shows the broadcast of the ÖVP district chief Franz Grundwalt, who also pointed out the impoverishment in the Riemergasse. I ask you – perhaps we know today – who will move in there. The university will not be, because it has today made an broadcast in which it finds that it will not use this building. In summary, the “Management by Chaos” is a chaos at the expense of tenants and taxpayers, and we reject it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e17846	Next, Mr Doppler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e17865	Madam President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! I would like to begin by saying that Mr Riepl claimed that unemployment would rise in the West, but in Vienna it would fall, and I was quite surprised that my colleague Spindelberger from Styria did not answer that, because unemployment also falls in Styria. No, Spindelberger enters the hall and regrets this budget. I wonder if the same documents have really been distributed here. One of them is a pity, and the other praise. However, I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that the chapter “Work and Economics”... [[Abg. Eder: What is the budget in Styria?]] Thank you for motivating me for a bite. I feel so lonely anyway, without any intermediate calls. Thank you very much, colleague. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The chapter “Work and Economy”, ladies and gentlemen, is not based on coincidences, but on the actions of this Federal Government, in particular those of our Minister Bartenstein and our Chancellor Schüssel, contribute to the fact that the figures are essentially improving. I would particularly like to point out that this Federal Government has managed to create 1 800 new apprenticeships. This is a great result, and I think that it has also been countered to youth unemployment. Ladies and gentlemen! It must be clear to you that the figures for youth unemployment have declined vehemently: for the up to 19-year-olds, the lead duration was 20.6 percent for three to six months and for 20.3 percent for six to twelve months. Overall, youth unemployment has fallen by 5.2 percent across Austria. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] However, I would also like to say that youth unemployment in Styria has even fallen by 6.8 percent. What do I want to say? – Federal policy is on a very good and right path in this area. It is also apparent, however, that the positive conditions that have been created by the federal government can be further strengthened by countries, as we can see from the example of Styria. Another positive measure is the integrative vocational training with the 1 138 training contracts concluded, 811 of which with a lengthening of teaching time, 327 with a partial qualification. Here too, the Styria with 256 diplomas is in second place after Vienna with 470; however, the Styria has a very balanced relationship between companies and facilities. Dear ladies and gentlemen! For the labour market, promotions are of great importance to the economy. For example, the 2005 budget provides for funding for young entrepreneurs of €6 500 000 and €12 497 000 for industrial structural improvement. The approaches to tourism are particularly positive, because the means of tourism, which are estimated in infrastructure promotion, as ERP funds and also as a protection cabin programme, have a positive impact. Tourism is positive, productive and job-saving and is an advantage for rural areas. And if I'm already in the rural area, just one sentence, Minister: INTERREG and LEADER are a great advantage for these areas, create investment, create jobs, and I ask that, when these programmes are over, they should try to make another effort. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e17916	The next item is the report by Mrs Rester-Hinterseer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e17937	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Thank you very much for the word tourism – a stepchild of the Federal Minister. [[Abg. Head: What? This is the Minister of Tourism!]] The funds for the shelter programme have not been increased for three years, the Alpenverein has just sent out a cry for help: They have to lock up individual huts because they can't get them anymore. So this is obviously not so successful, but maybe you'll ask the Alpenverein once. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] An interesting number has accommodated me in studying the budget work, as far as the Expo 2005 is concerned. The exhibition will take place in Japan from March to September 2005. First, the Council of Ministers would have sent Mr Leopold Maderthaner, but he did not come into question for health reasons, and thus Mares Rossmanndie's function. [[Abg. Scheibner: Is that bothering you?]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: A woman!]] Mares Rossmann is now responsible for preparing a truly wonderful theme: “Nature’s Wisdom”. We are very curious, Mrs Colleague, what you have to say about the wisdom of nature. It is interesting to note, however, that the budget approach to the Expo is 1 000 €. 1 000 €, Mr Klubobmann! This is interesting because it is known from the press release of the Expo-Büros Österreich that there is much more to it under the title “Departure on Austria”. It can be read that €6.5 million is estimated. What is the outcome of Mr Bartenstein's budget work? – “Nature’s Wisdom” – we are curious about what the wisdom of nature will think about this leap of numbers. Under the theme “Wisdom of Nature”, it is always about tourism and sustainability. On the Federal Ministry's internet platform, I read that it is of utmost interest for the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour to support regional and local initiatives and measures of sustainable tourism at the federal level. We have then asked what measures are planned in the sense of eco-tourism and sustainable tourism in 2005 and we have received the lapidare response: As in recent years, tourism projects – including eco-tourism – have continued to be supported from tourism funding. - No, no, no, no, no, What is this answer to a correct question? That's a no-na! response! [[Abg. Scheibner: But you have to tell us exactly what a no-na! response is!]] How high were the funds in previous years? Under the 1/63 156 budget, the amount of €100 000 for all initiatives in the sense of sustainable tourism can be found in Austria! – Mr Scheibner, now you see yourself a little desperate. It's a little fun, isn't it? [[Abg. Scheibner: My despair has quite different reasons!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: We are desperate about something else!]] [[Call of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] In 2003 the amount spent was 109,831 €. Poor, very thin! And what I didn't find is the answer to the question: How can we link sustainable tourism, economic growth and climate protection? That would be a really exciting task, Mr Minister, a task which you could be quite intellectually challenging and which could lead to the possible unattainable goal, the Kyoto objective, the They have negotiated themselves, but they could still be reached, because otherwise we will have to pay up to 34 € of fines per tonne of CO2 emissions, which we have not prevented. Wherever you will finance this, you will still have to explain to us. And as the last thing about the Austrian economy, something good – you always want to hear good –: I think it is very nice that we have companies in Austria that export new technology to the world market. These companies work in the field of solar energy, they work in the field of biomass boilers, they work in the field of windwheels. Mr Minister, you will not want to do this to us all that seriously that this great development, which has begun in the Austrian economy, will again be greatly reduced by an eco electricity law!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e18067	The next item is the report by Mr Eßl. Mr deputies, you wanted three minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e18085	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, with the economic budget, we have decided to make up a budget of €5,398 billion for 2005 and thus € 341 million higher than the 2004 budget. The economy, ladies and gentlemen, is on the rise, and I think we all already feel the positive effects of the economic packages of this Federal Government. [[Abg. Oils: Where?]] In some areas, we are already in the forefront of the European Union, and this, although a very difficult heritage has been left to us by the Socialist Finance Ministers. They have made debts, and we have to pay the interest! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] At the time of the arrival of the government bowl I we have paid more than €7 billion each year in interest, which is over €20 million per day interest. [[Abg. May. Darabos: Where were you in the years until 1999?]] In these five years, this is €35 billion interest we have paid for the old debt. [[Abg. May. Darabos: Where were you?]] And if we didn't have to pay these, we would be easy to cut off debts. So: You, my guesses. Ladies and gentlemen, we have made debts, we are taking measures to relieve. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The tax reform is one of the measures to relieve the burden and secure conditions for the economy so that it remains competitive. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] And a competitive economy means jobs. I know that you, Mr Matznetter, have nothing left for the economy with your paper and have nothing left for jobs. That's why you're raining up and flying around. – You can stay calm – we work for the citizens of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e18184	Next word is reported... – Excuse me! [[Abg. Eßl turned to the Bureau and said that he had not finished his remarks.]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I was of the opinion that you had finished your speech, honourable Member. We only had 2 days to think.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e18212	Madam President. I haven't seen any light yet!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e18242	Deputies! The light has lighted. Regardless of that, you can of course continue to talk, but I was firmly convinced that you had already said your final sentence. - Please, you're speaking again.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e18260	Madam President. There should, of course, be several highlights in a Member's speech, even if it is only three minutes. [[General cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] I believe it is legitimate to point out that Austria, as far as new debt is concerned, is well on the road, that Austria, as regards the employment situation, is at the forefront of Europe, with a record employment of 3.277 million people, and that exports increase by 5.5 percent in 2002. As a farmer, I should also like to point out, of course, that agriculture with its 182 500 employees and other 280 000 employees in the sub- and downstream sectors is a non-significant economic factor. 6 billion € will be invested. In this context, I would just like to say that it would be important for us to take appropriate measures in remote areas. The concentration of food trade is an incentive for me; this issue must certainly be addressed, and we should try to strengthen retail trade. Ladies and gentlemen! To sum up the 2005 budget, I can say: With this budget proposal, we find a numbering work which is very suitable for further boosting the economy in our country. The Federal Government with Wolfgang Schüssel at the top creates jobs for the benefit of the people in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e18304	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kogler. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e18339	Madam President. Federal Minister! There's no connection. I give the right to all those who want to call on me. It is even a strange performance of the SPÖ club. [[Abg. May. Molterer: The SPÖ Club?]] First one comes out who cannot prove himself, now one has three highlights without light. But please! [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] I would not have spoken if there were not anything serious in the Republic. I admit, this curve is hard to take, but I'm still trying. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Perhaps, as a small transition, it will help once – because the valued previous speaker has always messed up the “me” and the “we” in debt making, and I actually hoped and wished that we no longer need to hear this – if I remember that I have promised and offered to calculate by a relatively unscrupulous indicator who, as far as government members or also members of the legislative body are concerned, really has the highest net debt to answer in this sense. I have also offered the national economic seriality by calculating all the figures with the GDP deflator, and I assure you that the intermediate results – and I will then present the final results to you at the next plenary session – are indeed such that, as far as the Bank of Deputies and the Government is concerned, each time, it is a leading member of the EIA that is responsible for the debt accumulation during the respective period. But closer tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, when it fits. I actually wanted to say something serious or help me because maybe a few quotes from members of the government about a thing that has a lot to do with economic policy, quotations that may also sound funny, but are not just funny anymore. I can begin with a number of important representatives of the Republic of the Causa Privatisation, residual sale VA-Tech, and since you, Mr Federal Minister, are present, I can start with you immediately. You got it at the beginning of September, right on 7th. September of this year, said: The Republic sees itself as a stable core shareholder of VA-Tech, and this should remain so in the foreseeable future. – I may ask you: What is foreseeable? [[Abg. Oils: One month! A day!]] I may come to the President of the Federal Republic of Germany or to the chairman and head of the chamber. He notes that the time is right for VA technology to remain inside, he welcomes it. And he thanks for keeping ÖIAG in the VA technology. ==References== September of this year. Head of State Pühringer invited Schüssel and Grasser to a conversation. There he was assured, Pühringer, that the ÖIAG would naturally remain inside, which again led him, Pühringer, to put an employee funding on his feet in the country of Upper Austria. - Lovely. Toi, toi, toi! Schüssel emphasizes – literally quoted – that the ÖIAG remains on board and in case of an emergency” – that you will define what an emergency is – with a capital increase. – 2. September of this year. Gorbach: A sale of VA-Tech is certainly not accepted. Michaelis of the ÖIAG: A friendly Siemens entrance is not imaginable. – 7. September of this year. So, Federal Minister, if not even two months ago so much has spoken about this construction for an enemy takeover, why not now? Just because Mr Kovats is no longer present? I don't want to qualify at all. He's making his corporate policy, and that's not so surprising. Michaelis said in the Industrial Committee, where some of us were present, that he does not think that this is a long-term partner in VA technology. That's going to be You didn't surprise all of them. Now I'm wondering, How is it to qualify that a consulting and PR company, which is in close contact with the ÖVP, is now also promoting Siemens in the whole process? Because the only thing to do now is obviously to turn everything that was said a few weeks ago into the opposite. There you have a certain exercise – see debt policy – but not yet in this short time. That is why a PR company, and I think this is a bit strange if the largest, now very private, group of the Republic goes into the PR community with the Federal Chancellor to discuss all that was absolutely right a few weeks ago, but now should not apply at once. Please explain this to us! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] At the time, I did not get involved in this group, which cried like “enemy takeover! ” First of all, as a Member of Parliament, we lack the detailed knowledge of this, second, we need a few days to get a picture, thirdly, I have done this, fourthly I have come to the conclusion that, as far as the Hydro Group is concerned, a hostile takeover for VA-Tech Hydro is probably the only one that can be interpreted economically. Even though the VA-Tech Board of Directors is now, on account of the responsibility of depositing in the legal part of this case, it is no longer an enemy takeover, and so that the Commission gives the way free, it is, of course, still another economic question, which is an enemy takeover or not. What does this mean for the Weiz site, Mr. Federal Minister? If it were so – on the market economy can be discussed, no problem – that the location Weiz and VA-Tech Hydro itself would have the worse production figures than the counterpart in the current Siemens Group, then the market processes would sooner or later result in VA-Tech Hydro being either picked up or removed from the market or subsidized. I'm sure you wouldn't have done that. Be honest, but at least that would be a market-compliant process. What's going on now? – Now it can be that VA-Tech Hydro, Weiz location, is actually more productive than the counterpart in the Federal Republic. And this is the essence of an enemy takeover that is no longer assured that the site is always due to overcapacity – toi, toi, toi!In the case of the antitrust authority, it is closed, which actually has the lower key economic figures. What about your market economy and the happy and cheerful capitalism? Isn't that the shadows? Is it not our federal government, who cried a few weeks ago, that can threaten, and now all this is no longer true? And again, with any PR consultations, everything will be added? – Explain this to us!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e18417	No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. Does Mr Special Rapporteur wish a final word? - That's not the case. We come to the vote on the Advisory Group IX of the 2005 Federal Proposal. This includes Chapter 63 of the Federal Proposal in 650 of the Supplements as amended by the Special Report in 670 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Advisory Group IV Chapter 11: Internals
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e18464	We now come to the discussion on the advisory group IV: Inside. The Special Rapporteur did not accept oral reporting. We are therefore entering the debate. Mr Parnigoni is the first to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e18494	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! This government has, of course, done what it can best to spread sand to the people in 2005 with regard to the 2005 budget. Ladies and gentlemen! In the tomorrow’s “Kronen Zeitung, ” there is a new example of how this is going about. This is about fingerprinting and photo in the new EU passports, and among other things, Minister Strasser is quoted as follows: It was important for us that the public should not have any extra burden and should go to the authority just as before. That's where the ordinary citizen thinks: Everything stays the same, it doesn't cost anymore, it's all a simple story. What's the matter? However, the same Minister, in the Committee on Budgets, said that this would cost €25 per citizen. That's how it works with this government! Here again is a large-scale deception maneuver in progress. Mr Strasser, I say to you: To bring public statistics to the public, while more and more Vienna is becoming a victim of the security policy of the Strasser-Grasser team, can only be felt as provocation, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That was too obvious now!]] Now, however, I have to apologize. I forgot to say what I was quoting. This is not what I invented, and I really waited for you to throw the “Hölzl” to me, Mr Scheibner. I don't want to keep this from you: This sentence, which I have mentioned here, comes from the Freedom Press Office's club! [[Abg. Scheibner: That was too obvious!]] This is remarkable, ladies and gentlemen, when the FPÖ, as it were, is accusing the Minister's turkled statistics here. It is probably right, but the fact is that in the field of internal security, not even 3% of the total budget is spent again. You probably prefer to use the money for consultancy contracts, service cars, service trips and self-advertising. Because one thing is certain: In 1999, when the SPÖ was still in the government, over 3% of the total budget was still available for this area. At that time, however, there were only less than 500,000 offences, and at that time the education rate was significantly more than 50 percent, that is, 51.4 percent. Today it looks completely different. Today, after four years of Ernst Strasser, we have thousands of planning sites less, there is a devastating increase in crime to probably more than 700 000 crimes this year and chaos in the security device to complain. Ladies and gentlemen! Nevertheless, the increase in the internal security budget is small in view of the general budget explosion. This is to Mr Eßl for his speech – he is not in the hall now. This budget will make an additional €5 billion of new debt, which is at least 70 billion schilling. Of course, he should not forget that in his fire speeches in the Farmers' Federation. The fact is that despite this explosion of the debt you incur in this budget year, only €163 million will remain for the internal budget chapter. Very modest, a drop on the hot stone! For the safety executive, there are € 68 million. It is therefore only a small part of the total increase in the budget for internal security. This is clearly too little for an efficient improvement of the structures, and here you need action. That this doesn't work, that security in this country is not the way it should be, that shows us the headlines without a break. Let’s take the headline of the “Kronen Zeitung” of 16. November since: The wrong beards are raided. No 30 seconds needed two robbers for this year's already 59. It's a robbery. Or take the “curer ” from tomorrow: Alarm in Advent. Police warn of robbery. A robbery every second working day. [[Abg. Scheibner: We can read ourselves!]] Or take the “curier ” of the 14th century. November: Insurances are moaning under the flood. Compared to 2003, the crime increases by 15 percent. [[Abg. Großruck: (keeping a newspaper in height) Read this too!]] You should now learn your next four-liner externally, Mr. Großruck. Learn your four-liner externally, that's a lot of failure. These are not intermediate calls, that disqualifies itself. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The main question is: If the offence continues to rise in this way and the insurance industry complains of it in a massive way now, of course, there is also an increase in insurance contributions to the insurance premiums to be expected. That is to say, this government is buying that it is again burdening the population, thereby proving its social cold again. [[Abg. Zweytick: That's a premise! It's taken from the clouds!]] Mr Zweytick, your Welschriesling is not so good that you can make such calls! [[Abg. Zweytick: You have a bad taste!]] But I tell you, Mr. Zweytick, even the economy... [[Abg. Zweytick: You already had a better taste!]] This is my personal opinion, which I will still be allowed to say. I cost him. [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Even the economy tackles the problems of security in this country and is already in the process of doing so. For example, in a brochure for navigation systems, it is advertised that this system for drivers who have to change the vehicle more often than not – for example, for bank robbers! – best suited. So that makes it look very deep, ladies and gentlemen, that in reality not only the media, but also the economy accepts this problem! Ladies and gentlemen! It is therefore absolutely clear: If we look at the development, for example, in comparison to Germany, where we today have a 53 percent reconnaissance rate and where the number of crimes has decreased from 6.7 million in 1993 to 6.5 million crimes in 2003 – because you always use Germany for comparison – this is the case, of course, because in Bavaria alone more than 1,000 executive officials have been recruited. As the situation is so dramatic, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I think this is a very legitimate proposal, and since FPÖ is constantly calling for 1 000, now even 1,600 police, in Vienna too, I assume that the liberals will agree to this request. I think it is time to support the emergency call of the executive, the emergency call 133, because in the last decades this emergency call has become a symbol of good cooperation between the population and the executive. In your time of government, the executive must turn to the population and politics with an emergency call! [[Abg. Zweytick: Go, please!]] And that's a bad sign. They are making a diletantic policy that endangers the safety of people. You should take the executive's emergency call seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e18686	The motion for a resolution, tabled by Mr Parnigoni, on 1 000 executive officials, on the safety of Austrians is sufficiently supported, properly implemented and is therefore under negotiation. Next item is the report by Mr Kößl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e18707	Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! We have now been far away from the policy of matters, I would like to return. I believe that we have a very encouraging budget today, yes, I almost want to say, a success budget. €1,9 billion for 2005 for the internal budget – this is a plus of €163 million, i.e. about 10 percent more than this year. In addition, there is a plus of 500 executive officials in the post for 2005. So it is all done so that Austria will continue to remain in the field of security world peak. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, the rejection of the SPÖ's budget is not new to us: Frontal opposition! I find this very hypocritical, and I say this in all clarity, because in December of last year, too, as always, the demand has come from the SPÖ: more money, more staff for the executive! When we decided on 36 million more and plus 150 officials for the executive, the SPÖ voted against. This is the typical behavior of the SPÖ, carried out on the back of the officials who carry out their duties outside! If the SPÖ and Mr Parnigoni have repeatedly criticized the lack of personnel, I will give this criticism the right to: There are several hundred officers at Gendarmerie and police. Unfortunately God is not here now the ex-internal minister, but I still want to say it: In his term of office, all school plans have been deleted. Today 700 officials are in training, and these 700 officials are missing in the services because they aim at the systemized status of Gendarmerie and police in the guardroom and the Gendarmerie post. However, the SPÖ must take its own nose and take note of what future-oriented security policy has been pursued here. I would like to thank the Minister of the Interior, who increased the overtime quota by €3 million at the beginning of October as a result of this situation. Of course, this will and will also be “absorbing” a certain number of officials. The fact that there is this plus in the budget is, I believe, important and correct, because the interior has great tasks to perform. What has begun, that is to say, to make our executive a single and powerful federal guard body, which is also able to cope with the challenges of the future, will continue, and I hope that this will be completed next year. We can now look back on significant modernisation and further development: The training of police and gendarmerie has been unified. The special units Cobra and Wega have been reorientated. The Federal Criminal Office has been installed. International cooperation by 14 liaison officers in strategicly important countries has been established or extended. There has also been the creation of an immediate intervention force, an extension of DNA analyses, a very important thing to combat culprit crime, and, in particular, the renewal of police and gendarmerie departments. In the last four years, 448 gendarmerie and police stations have been newly built, adapted, extended or renovated – a great performance, and also at this point a thank you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Security means quality of life for the people of our country. Security is extremely important for Austria's economic location, indeed irreplaceable. Security means more freedom and well-being. These Federal Government and Interior Minister Strasser represent the largest security offensive in the Second Republic, and I thank you for that. This budget can be seen. This budget means more security for the people of our country and is also a success for executive officials. Our thanks goes to those who have been committed to this excellent budget, Federal Minister Strasser and his team, but also to those who ensure our security day and night, the police and gendarmen who can look at a good year 2005 with more money in both the service and in the private sector.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e18770	The next speaker was Mr Oellinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e18799	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Because of the fact that our security spokesman Peter Pilz is ill, you have the rare honour of getting a look at a place that has little to do with the narrow concept of security policy at first, except that I have sometimes made unpleasant acquaintance – in earlier times pleasant acquaintance – with the Minister of the Interior. I am surprised that not immediately again a debate has been launched about the question of the merger of police and gendarmerie; we already had the debate today in the context of a urgent one. I do not know whether you know, Mr Federal Minister, that you and your department or the relevant practices have already been discussed in the context of a urgent debate today and that this was actually the extension of the debate we had last week on the basis of a urgent request relating mainly to human rights activities or non-activities or the disability of human rights activities. Today, as part of the SPÖ's urgent debate, police and Gendarmerie were also involved in the debate. Unlike the Socialist Group, which expressed criticism of the merger, we Greens would certainly understand the combination of the various and historically grown guards. That wouldn't be the point. The point is that – and there the criticism begins; but that was also to be expected, and that is the problem – that, of course, new posts have to be occupied wherever something is put together. And the extent of these posts, these new invitations to tender, is not only surprising, but throws everything we know and in connection with new occupations by the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs, over the pile. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kößl.]] It is a major administrative reform, Mr Kößl, that is not the point. You yourself have said in the context of an APA broadcast that it is clear and of course that the Minister of the Interior chooses the best minds. He will have difficulties, whether it is 5,000 or 12 000 best minds to choose these people himself. That is, he will resort to the usual way of dealing with such situations and will be advised by his party friends. Mr Kößl, we have already seen how the Minister of State has acted in the event of job tenders, in the event of new occupations or in the removal of key top positions. Now I don't want to say that it doesn't always have to be a Social-Democrat chief manager of a guard. Of course not. But it must not and must not be so that it will be replaced by an ÖVP member. What we are currently experiencing and have experienced in recent years the leadership of this Minister of the Interior was that exactly that has always come true: Social democrats have been "exhausted" from functions and ÖVP- or ÖVP-near top officials have been used. [[Abg. That's not true! I could tell you examples of where it is not!]] I regret that – let me say that, you will come back to it! – because this also discredits the persons who have been called into these functions. And they would have deserved to be traded without a break under the title “I have actually been called to this office only on the basis of this minister”. And I'll tell you: If the Minister – and this is not to be said – has the same thing in these job tenders, then our protest and our defence will be the same as on human rights issues. But I promised you to take a slightly different look at the resort. Regardless of whether you share Mr Parnigoni's argument or your praise: The Interior Ministry is one of the resorts that has more budget. The Minister of the Interior has negotiated more than other departments. Good. Probably – and that's what it's all about. She herself also said – it also needs more executive officials on site. Good. That's not the point. The point is: If you look at which second resort also has strong increases, you notice that it is the judicial resort. The judicial body rightly says: In view of what is happening in prisons, we need more judicial guards. And so the experts argue out here: Those of the opposition usually say it's still too little, and that of the government says it's maybe too little, but it might well fit, it should be a little more, but we're largely satisfied. What is not noticed is: The vastly growing resorts in the federal budget are the security resorts. I have said for myself, I see that there is a need for more judicial guards, the conditions in prisons are unbearable, and also the states of security in the Austrian domestic policy scene, in the cities have changed. Remember what I want out on? Two resorts win strongly for this: Justice and security – and all other departments do not win to this extent. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Others too!]] I can only tell you from the point of view of a person not thinking from this point of view: Look at where developments are going! There is quite the situation in other countries that clearly more is spent for prisons, more for executives than for education. We are, I admit, far away from it, but making developments, tendencies felt, visible is also a policy task, and one must deal with it very sensitively in the security field. There are fears generated quickly by the population, fears startled, and you are in the ÖVP – allow me to say this side-by-side – this game is also almost as good as the Members of the Partik-Pablé. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Could you repeat this, I didn't watch!]] - Too late, next time, ladies and gentlemen. You can read it in the minutes. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I wanted to go into it!]] I just want to point out: If we want to continue in security, it will not only be possible to deal with more judicial guards and more security officers, but it will need a different view of security, which must develop away from justice and judicial and executive officials. Security is more than that. Security is a very comprehensive concept, and this does not necessarily have something to do with the helmet or with the käppi on the head, but rather very much with social security, much also with environmental security. If the people here in Austria are confronted with such living conditions, this is a problem, and this is not only a matter of domestics, but of course also people who come to Austria and find them completely inconceivable conditions. We need to be much more concerned with these conditions, to take care of these relationships and much more... [[Abg. Zweytick: That’s where you confuse something with “inconceivable conditions ” in this country! We're in Austria!]] But go, you haven't been watching again! You're too busy with the young wine. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is just an attempt to point out something that will become apparent in these budget figures. I told you that we could have talked to the Greens in principle about the merger of Gendarmerie and the police, but we must express our firm suspicions and express our firm opposition to what is happening now and how the personnel are developing. But now I am – and I will not let go of it and the Greens as a whole will certainly not be able to do so – on the point, Mr Federal Minister, where we can continue the debate last week. You, Mr Strasser, and your colleagues have said that you will, of course, comply with constitutional laws. There is a broadcast of Amnesty International: On the night of the 4th to the 5th. In November, two single women and an eight-year-old child from Chechnya, who are being cared for by the SOS Human Rights Organization, which is not an unknown organization for you, were transferred to Poland. Neither their asylum proceedings had been completed nor any evidence of the danger of further removal from Poland has been examined. You know what the Constitutional Court of Justice has to say: The general exclusion of the suspensive effect is unconstitutional. The Ministry of the Interior refers to the fact that this recognition of the Constitutional Court has not yet been made known in the German Federal Law. Mr Federal Minister, if that is your responsibility and your perception of constitutional court judgments: Yes, as long as this is not yet printed in the federal law paper, we are moving away, no matter who it is, women, children, out with them, that goes for so long, until it is printed in the federal law! , so if that is to be true... [[Abg. May. Johann Maier: Unmistakable!]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Strasser: That's not true!]] This is what Amnesty International writes, so far an organization that is not badly slandered, Mr. Federal Minister. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But Austria has always done bad things, Austria has always put into the dirt!]] If that's true, Minister of State... [[Federal Minister Dr. Strasser: That's not true!]] You have the opportunity to answer. This fits into a chain of other incidents. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Amnesty International is always trying to make everything bad, police and everything!]] I can still remember that we were standing in front of your ministry with the human rights organizations in the December weeks in front of your ministry in the last year – I too was standing there – because then women, children, were not only expelled from the Traiskirchen refugee camp, but were simply put on the streets from everywhere. Well, now they are obviously no longer put on the street before Christmas; then there has been a brief Christmas peace, there have been more orderly lanes to accommodate, even positive steps to be honoured – despite all extreme shortcomings. But what Amnesty International writes, it must not happen to an interior minister who just had to “cash” a knowledge of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e18977	Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé is speaking as next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e18995	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Oellinger has not repeated why he has apostrophized me, so I cannot address it either. [[Abg. Oils: But you probably know it!]] No, I don't even know, imagine! But I am still referring to your speech, namely the accusations you make to the Minister of the Interior for alleged party political occupations. To this end, I would like to say: Mr Strasser has repeatedly stressed that he is leading a red-and-white-red ministry. This means that the positions shall be filled with persons who are capable of this task, that positions shall be tendered accordingly and, after this tender result, the person most appropriate shall be entrusted with the function in question. And what a difficult way the ministers have to make such a red-and-white-red ministry, I would like to show you that. [[Abg. May. Worm: 700,000 crimes and crimes!]] In 2000, when this Federal Minister came to the government, there were nine national army commanders – all SPÖ; [[Abg. May. Worm: Bullshit!]] 14 Federal Police Directorates – all red; 14 central inspectors – all red; and there were 14 criminal inspectors – all red; the Director General for Public Security – of course red; 14 police directors – all red. [[Abg. May. Worm: Bullshit!]] [[Abg. May. Worm: Bullshit!]] [[Abg. May. Worm: In agreement with the national leaders were decided!]] A remnant is still the police director of Vienna, Dr. Stijl. That means if You fear such a thing, then, because you know exactly what it was like under your socialist Minister of the Interior, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. And the Lord of Oillinger knows that too. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But that was just a small sidestep in response to the claims made by Mr. Ollinger. However, I would also like to refer to the debate by Mr Parnigoni, who quoted the “Kronen Zeitung” that the EU has decided to prescribe new fingerprint passports or biometric features. I would like to choose a different approach here; Mr Parnigoni saw it exclusively from the point of view that this would cost €25 more. I see it from the point of view that this is an important step towards greater security. I took the “Kronen Zeitung”: These biometric data are only included in the passport because the US has exerted such a strong pressure on the EU. There you can see again how blue-eyed or how naive the EU politicians are, because they should have initiated it before the USA or at least at the same time. Now you're late, but you're acting. The Minister of the Interior is neither very willing nor very pleased that there will be these passports. I have to say, I support it. [[Abg. May. Worm: How complicated!]] The Freedom Party has already proposed in 1999 that biometric features should be included in passports because our passports are extremely vulnerable to counterfeiting. Mrs Wurm! You experience that again and again. Mr Minister, if you had already accepted or complied with our demands at the time, the Austrians would have saved some money. Now most people already have passports that meet EU criteria. The biometric data should have been recorded at the time. They should take real account of the demands for freedom and not wait until the EU accepts our demands. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Super! Very good!]] So that's about the passports. Mr Strasser, on the occasion of the committee debate, you also argued that the independent Bundesasylsenat has more than 20,000 open asylum proceedings and that each judge does three acts there each week. This is really a situation you can't be very satisfied with. But this slow operation of course also affects the budget, because we pay for the support of all asylum seekers € 106 million – this is a plus of 53 million, after old currency 1.5 billion schilling – an amount that is really worth mentioning. Since some of the asylum seekers make the appeal only for the purpose of extending their stay in Austria, and in reality there are no grounds for asylum, one must also expect that some of the asylum applications will be negative and that these people will be released from asylum care, from federal care, which in turn reduces the costs. In other words, we must all be interested that the UBAS works faster, not only because of the fact that the judges really earn their money, but also because the total cost of asylum services is reduced. Minister! I drew your attention last week on the occasion of a pressing call for control mechanisms to be taken, because of course, an authority with such a high degree of independence is controlled accordingly. There really is an acute need for action. I expect you to present your concepts to us over the next few weeks, how you want to tighten these controls so that the independent federal asylsenat works better and more efficiently. I would also like to say a few words on the issue of crime. We agree that crime is inadvertently high and that it is urgently being fought, because the population is expecting to live in a safe state. After all, considerable tax resources are also applied by the population in order to be able to live in safety. I have now heard with joy that there will be more police in 2005; I have also taken this from the “Kronen Zeitung”. They have good contacts with the “Kronen Zeitung”. [[towards SPÖ]] It will be informed before Parliament is informed. In 2005 at least there will be 250 police officers more in Vienna. Through the merger of Gendarmerie and police, you said in the committee, another 500 officials will be available. I only hope that these 500 will be added to the 250 and that the number of 500 will not include the 250 mentioned in the “Kronen Zeitung”. While the executive is not the only way to combat crime, it is a very important factor. Above all, the population also expects to see police officers on the street. A cop walking around, looking at what's going on in his Rayon, is the best prevention, because hardly a burglar will go where the cop is passing. Mr Minister, it is also important to limit the bank robbery and the offences that occur in connection with bank visits. Almost every other day, a bank will be attacked. [[Abg. May. Johann Maier: That was in the “Kronen Zeitung”!]] - That's also in the paper inside, yes. However, as has been said, no preventive action is being taken at all. Banks live as carelessly as if there were no criminals. While in other countries, for example, there are lock gratings or visual protection in front of the bank switch, it is so true that the third party in the series sees exactly what the old mother learns, then this old woman or the old man or a younger woman can follow and live out his criminal energy unhindered. I really think you have to intervene because you can't say: We really don't care what the banks do with their money, they're supposed to leave it to the criminals, but these are points of attraction. It is about that one can attack banks playing in Austria, because the few are caught. The surveillance cameras do not work, and then they scatter nails or anything, at least they make the persecution difficult for the police. That is why, I believe, banks should also be obliged to do something to prevent criminals from coming to Austria, even though they intend to attack a bank at a reasonable price, but then, if they do not find a bank, break into houses and apartments and so on. I would really ask you to become an initiative, because, like the private citizen, prevention must be done by buying more locks, security doors and so on and making certain investments, a bank must also ensure better prevention. That is, as I think, urgently necessary. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Parnigoni said it was due to the “diletantic policy” of this Minister of the Interior that we had such a high level of crime. – This is, of course, not right, Mr Parnigoni, but it is an imported crime, partly caused by Schengen. If you enter Greece, you can travel to Scandinavia without any checks – no matter what your intention. That it is imported crime, we see: 80 per cent of the prisoners in the Vienna State Criminal Court are already foreigners. Four, five years ago it was perhaps 30 percent, today it is 80 percent. That really speaks a very clear language! The Minister of the Interior is certainly not responsible for this. I'll be right there. I have given you a few orders, Minister, and I hope you will follow them. Of course, we would all support the fact that more money is available in the interior so that these 1,000 police officers can really be taken up. Today, respect has already been expressed in politics and so on, and this also includes understanding points of view. It is now true that in the budget the available scarce resources need to be divided into many resorts, and the interior is already one of those resorts that have more money at their disposal, because the situation is very critical. But it has to be dealt with very economically with by these scarce means, and I really hope, Minister, that it will succeed in curbing crime, because this is what the people expect of us.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e19169	Mr Strasser, Federal Minister of State, spoke next. – Mr Federal Minister, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e19188	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! If one wants to ensure security, if one wants to fight crime successfully, then some conditions are necessary: first, the corresponding budget, second, the corresponding staff, third, the modernisation of Austrian executives. I am pleased to be able to say here in front of this House that, in very constructive, sometimes longer negotiations with the Minister of Finance and, I would like to expressly stress, we have also achieved with the help of the Austrian Chancellor, that we can present a genuine security budget for the Republic and for the citizens by the 2005 budget. I would like to thank the Minister of Finance and the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany for this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If I follow the debate this way, I must say that some points are already quite interesting. The facts are that crime is going back. Secondly, it is a fact that within five years we are already being identified for the second time by the international institute that makes these assessments as the safest country in the world. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would like to thank once again those members of this House who, with the 2004 Security Budget, have additionally enabled us to provide 36 million Austrians with the safety of the Austrians and, which has been particularly difficult but nevertheless successful, to receive 150 additional plans for Austrian security. Nevertheless, some of the Austrian security devices, I would like to say, are talking sickly. I'm sorry. The officials of the Austrian police and the Gendarmerie and the criminal service did not deserve this. They do excellent work, they do their work under difficult conditions, because we are in a particular geopolitical situation, excellent. They successfully fight the imported crime. I would like to thank all the Members of the House who also support this work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Sonnberger: Bravo!]] The outcome of the negotiations, the outcome of the 2005 budget, clearly means that we have 800 employees in the budget more than planned for the Ministry of the Interior. This will allow us to further increase the executive, and this means that for police and gendarmerie, in 2005 we will not have less, but more 500 officials in service than in the summer of 2004. By the end of 2005, we can allow 800 young men and women to be admitted to the Austrian police. That is the result, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] I took part in a security discussion in Vienna yesterday. There, the Vienna colleagues of the population have been able to say that, on the basis of the conditions created, among other things, by this budget, in Vienna until the 1st century. December 2005 234 officials will also be available for foreign service and until 31 December 2005 August 2006 279 employees will also be available in the field service. This means that over the next one and a half years, as a result of this budgetary situation alone in Vienna, more than 500 officials may be available for the foreign service. This is the result of these negotiations, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] On the subject: I find it unfortunate and do not make any sense that social democracy and the Greens were unable to give their consent to the security budget, which 36 million were unable to give their approval in December 2003. I regret that they cannot give their consent to the increase in the budget by more than 100 million schilling, according to the words of their chief speakers. This is a shame because we can use the money very well, for technical innovations, for the renewal of the computer, for a modern radio system, for a modern vehicle park and other things. I am grateful to those Members who support with their voice that we can use € 106 million more for the material expenditure of the Austrian Ministry of the Interior. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would also like to say very clearly, Mr Oellinger, that not always and not everywhere means that More staff and budgets are also essential that it is urgently necessary. I am well aware that the public administration has to be economical, that we have to try to turn on the cost screw where we spend too much money. And I can tell you quite frankly that I did not regret to have saved 100 million schilling annually, in old currency at the time, in the rescue of flights by handing them over to a private operator, because we can use this money very well for the equipment. I'm not sorry that we saved more than 20 percent of our staff in the administration. I don't regret it, and I think it's right that we saved 17 percent of our staff in the state army command. Efficient administration, efficient work in the public authorities are necessary and a prerequisite for getting more money and more staff. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Now that we have the budget and the staff that we urgently need, we are going with great consequence and with momentum to modernise the executive. We have prepared for the long-needed and meaningful combination of police and gendarmerie, so far as we can discuss it here in Parliament. I look forward to this discussion on 1st October. December. I've heard there's a presidential decision that there's been 9th. In December the House debated and, I suppose, should also be decided. The combination of police and gendarmerie makes the structures more compact, the information faster, the paths shorter and employees more efficient where we need them. There is also a clear word, Mr Oellinger. We currently have 45 commanders and commanders in the field of executives in Austria. The new concept provides that in the future there will be nine commanders, one in each federal state. That seems to be useful, it seems to be correct, that is undisputed. Yes, how do you want to advance the further development from 45 to nine command points? – Indem They write down these areas and then carry out them in a procedure as provided for in the Procurement Act. [[Abg. Oils: That's where the problems start!]] That is the normal way we have taken, and that is also the reasonable way of implementing a major change in organisation. We have proved this in the reform of the police in Vienna, we have proved it in the reform of the Federal Criminal Office, we have proved it in the reform of the State Police, and we will prove it again in the very well and precisely prepared combination of Gendarmerie and Police, my very dear ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Ollinger: That sounds like a threat!]] I should also like to draw your attention to this issue. Your attention may have been lost that the clarification took place at 13.27 a.m. on the APA, where it is very clear – I quote – that “in the area of the Federal Asylamt, “the oral announcement of the findings by the VfGH” – the Constitutional Court – has been “unswervingly responded”. And on top of that: In this case, ‘in another EU Member State, as requested by the VfGH, specific individual case checks are always to be carried out’. That is what the Federal Asyl Office has done in this area, and we have done so from the time of the announcement and not later, even if there are legal theoretical discussions here as to when a knowledge of the Constitutional Court should apply. In this context, I should also like to inform the House that today the Human Rights Advisory Council has spoken about the proposal for the sixth Commission, which we discussed in this House last week. There has been a result today, but not a particularly clear result. The Austrian Press Agency writes – I quote –: ‘It is said to have gone out with six to five votes for Bürstmayr.’ After the lady, who has been rated as equal in the first proposal, withdrew her application, I will follow the proposal of the Human Rights Advisory Council. [[Abg. May. Posch: Has it paid off that we have made a tie!]] On the comments made by Mrs Partik-Pablé, I can say constructively that every good idea in the field of safety is welcome, no matter who she comes from, and no matter who she has. In this sense, all political groups in Parliament are invited to present their good ideas, not only in the Committee on the Interior, but also in direct discussions. We're open to that. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] The result for Austrian security in 2005 is summarized in a few words: more jobs for more employees, so that hundreds of officials are more involved in foreign service and more than €100 million more for Austrian security. – This is a good result for the safety of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e19338	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e19356	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me also say a thank you to the executive: The officials of the executive have made their work exemplary, well done, and that was not always easy under this Minister of the Interior. [[Call the ÖVP: What? What?]] – Thank you very much to the officials! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To my predecessor, Dr. Pablo: If you have said that the problem was not the infarction, and the Minister would have had to deal with one through and through a red official's apparat, I will tell you: The Austrians don't care what color someone has, but the Austrians want a safe Austrian – and that was a safer country until 2000 than it is from 2000 to 2004. That's fact – a sad fact. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kößl: Open borders, together the countries...!]] 500 000 crimes and crimes in 2000, 700 000 now – this is a difference, and that in the case of declining intelligence rates! This is not a success report, and you can't speak that up, even if you'd like to do it – unfortunately! I say to the Austrians: Unfortunately, it is. I have already addressed the question to you in the Committee on Budgets, Mr Federal Minister: What did you plan in the budget chapter for crime prevention? We know that the best crime policy is that crime does not happen at all. [[Abg. Kößl: Criminal Police Advisory Service! Video surveillance, protection zones...!]] It does not look particularly good, and I am already with Mr Öllinger, who said that security policy is more than executive officials and increasing judicial guards in judicial policy. – Therefore prevention must play an important role! I would also like to quote Christian Broda, who once said: The best criminal policy, the best security policy, is a good social policy. – You should not ignore that either. [[Abg. That's right!]] For prevention, Mr. Federal Minister, you have replied, €470 000 are available in this budget for funding projects, €400 000 for criminal police advice, and then there is coverage for intervention agencies. – That's what makes you think of your inventiveness in this area. Where are the innovative projects? Where is the innovative project when it comes, for example, to combating tow crime and not just thinking about perpetrators, but also about doing something for the victims? They know that it would be necessary, in terms of trafficking in human beings, which is often associated with trafficking in women, to install other victim protection facilities in addition to Vienna's agencies, for example in the west of Austria. We are in the border area, and here it would be necessary to establish a victim protection facility. [[Abg. Miedl: What do you suggest?]] There's something missing in your concept – that's not there! [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Strasser.]] Victim protection facilities with regard to tow crime, not intervention agencies! You're confusing me, Minister of State. Now something on a subject that I have discussed in the Committee on Budgets, but which has not really been answered by you; You have washed your hands in innocence in old-fashioned manners. I asked you: What to do You are opposed to the increased violation of the various laws on the protection of young people, and I have mentioned the new alcohol drinks in particular. [[Abg. Kößl: Youth laws are national laws!]] We know that, but the review – the review, Mr Kößl! – then the police or the Gendarmerie have to do. It is not a condition that in our country more and more 12-year-olds already come to school and, and, and that driving with alcohol is increasing continuously at the tax – 85 dead a year, that is not tolerable either! There is a need for action, especially preventive nature. We can't wait until more happens! Here I wish you, Mr Federal Minister, more action and less beautiful speeches – the beautiful speeches alone do not satisfy us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e19483	The next speaker was Mr Ellmauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e19502	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats! We have never solved any problems with regret and sluggishness. Finally, stop pulling our home country Austria into the dirt! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. May. Worm: Your home country? That's not just yours, it's ours too!]] Austria is a leader in safety. Compared with other industrial nations, Austria has now again been rated as the Top 1 country in terms of security for the second time, and this will continue to be the case in the future. I am particularly pleased that the safety of the people in our country is at my heart, and I am particularly pleased that a more than €162.7 million appears in the Federal estimates for the interior, which corresponds to an increase of almost 10 percent. This means that our country has more resources to become even safer – including 800 officials more for the coming year! In order to maintain our high safety standards, an executive reform will be required, and it will be implemented successfully. Police, Gendarmerie and customs guards are grouped together into an executive guard. We want less administration, less management structures, more security for our people. – And one thing is certain: Security is not everything, but without security everything is nothing. One more at Security is also the basis for more growth, more jobs, more economy, more well-being of our population. Internal security is an essential prerequisite for investment, a flourishing economy and a high quality of life. On my various trips abroad, I became aware: If you compare the situation of personal security in Austria with that of abroad, you estimate the security situation at home more and more and you're glad when you come back, because it's safe with us. That is why I am particularly grateful to the security executive officials for their excellent work for the safety of our people! The first comparisons of the monthly security monitoring also show: The measures taken to improve the security situation in Austria are beginning to take place. I am also pleased that the budget has included the provision of asylum and xenophobia. Due to the changed legal situation by the in-force step of the Article-15a agreements with the federal states, €60 million will be used for this area. In the Federal Estimate 2004 the supply of about 5 500 asylum seekers per day was limited, the Federal Estimate 2005 provides for a daily supply of more than 18 500 persons. A few words to the Bundesasylamt: As the first instance of the asylum authority, the Bundesasylamt has to decide on asylum applications in accordance with the standardised procedures. At the same time, the Federal Office is the authority responsible for the Dublin II Agreement. For the tasks in the Federal Asyl Office, €11 083 000 is foreseen in the 2005 budget. For the management of these legal tasks, seven outposts in the federal states and two first reception positions are set up in Traiskirchen, Schwechat and Talheim near St. Georgen in Upper Austria. The independent Bundesasylsenat is a court-like, independent body that has to decide on appeals in asylum matters before the Administrative Court. For the current service operations, €7 244 000 are planned for 2005. To this end, we must insist that there is a great setback in the appeal procedures, which will be speeded up in the future. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) This Federal Government and Mr Strasser Federal Minister have managed to consolidate the state budget and, with the greatest tax reform, permanently relieve the population and the economy. This is also reflected in their reports by international organisations such as the International Monetary Fund or the OECD. Only the Austrian opposition – both social democrats and Greens – is not ready to finally take note of this. Finally, I insist: The internal chapter of the 2005 budget properly budgets the right measures at the right time. That's why: Thank you, Minister of State! – I would like to agree with the Internal Chapter.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e19547	Mrs Haidlmayr is speaking on behalf of the next speaker. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e19566	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We talked about it last week, Mr Minister – the President is probably aware of it too –: There is a group in Austria that has to live far below the poverty line, namely the civilians. And for that, Minister of State Strasser, you are responsible! Minister! Ten thousand young men do work for the Republic of Austria – yes: important work for the Republic of Austria – without their achievements, at least in the last few days this has been said over and over again that it is impossible to get out at all. [[Abg. Ellmauer: Important work!]] If so, Minister... – Mr Minister, I wish you could listen to me! [[An employee of Federal Minister Dr. Strasser speaks to this one.]] You can hold your private conversations later! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This is a service conversation! You see that's his secretary!]] . But we now have a plenary session, and the Federal Minister did not do bad to listen to me, because if he had ever listened to me, at least he would have implemented a part of what we have been demanding of him for years! [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You already told him last week!]] Minister! These 10,000 men, these 10,000 civilians, who, as it is said, do so important work for our Republic, suffer hunger, are exploited – and not only them, but also their families, by having to pay for costs that would actually have to be borne by the federal government, namely your ministry, Mr Strasser! Minister! It's by nothing – by absolutely nothing! – to justify that basic defence servants receive a monthly flat-rate remuneration of €250 – that is okay – civil servants, on the other hand, those who maintain the social system in Austria, only € 185 per month! Civil servants are punished at €65 per month less for providing social services for the Republic of Austria! You have to imagine that! Mr Minister, you will not only punish every civil servant with €65 per month less, but also by giving them only €6 per day for food, with you, Mr Minister, even saying that €4.86 would be enough. [[The opposition of the Federal Minister of State, Dr. Strasser, who is sitting on the government bank.]] - Of course! Look You're looking at your own documents! – Of course, a basic defense minister, who cannot be installed in his facility, receives 13,60 € per day. [[Abg. Kößl: colleague, the budget for civil service will be increased!]] That is, someone doing civil service is still being punished for this by getting less money for food than a soldier! Mr Strasser, you must first justify this in this Republic, why people who provide social benefits to our country only step in and so to speak are “thankfully thanked” by not giving them money so that they can buy food by not giving them money so that they can live somewhere by not giving them money so that they can heat them! [[Call the ÖVP: It's all wrong!]] Don't tell me that's not true! I'm trying to explain it to you, which you still don't know, because you obviously can't read or want to: A civil servant receives up to €6 daily in food costs. A basic defense minister... – Mr Kößl, listen to me, otherwise tell me in at least two minutes that you haven't understood it again! [[Abg. Kößl: The budget for civil service is increased by 27 percent!]] And forever I also don’t have time to explain something to you! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Kößl: Are you on the move with the civilians?]] A basic defense minister who cannot be committed in his unit, namely in the barracks, receives 13,60 € – a civil servant, on the other hand, 6 €. Now you'll figure this out! It is clear that civil servants are critical young men who have thought very well about why they are not going to the federal army, because they strictly reject the service with the weapon – just as the Federal Minister Strasser did. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Federal Minister Strasser also refused the service with the weapon, because he probably also said – like these 10,000 young men today – that: I'm doing something meaningful and good civil service! [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] – And for that these young men are punished! [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] But not only are these young men punished, but they are also their families, because they have to pay for the remaining costs! The family then has to feed these young men – or the young men make debts. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Strasser.]] [[Abg. Kößl: I have a positive feedback from the civil servants through the bank!]] – I can imagine that you have a positive feedback if you have people in your old houses and communities who are practically at zero rate, for 6 € per day for the food, so to speak, hack like the vipers. I think that this is positive for you, and treat it the same way. You've got these people too! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kößl: Come to me to the Red Cross to Amstetten and talk about it!]] If you would recognize the work of civilian servants, you would not let them go home with such a small amount at the end of the month! – Mr Kößl, we know that you have a preference for people who don’t taste anything and work like the “fucks”! Yes, Mr Kößl, this is your policy; we know it! [[Abg. These are isolated cases!]] [[Abg. These may be isolated cases!]] Look You'll be in your own old houses once: What do the civilians get? – When it goes up, they get €6 a day for food – and then they can “snat”! That was literally said to them. If the civil servants don't do what the institution wants, then there's no lunch either! Such cases are also known to me. Mr Strasser, I say to you: If They are not willing to finally give to civil servants what is due to them, namely, a proper meal and the same flat-rate remuneration, as they have the basic military servants, then you must not be surprised – and that is what you have to answer! – if one day all civil servants together and at the same time lay down their work for two or three days! [[Abg. Murauer: What do they have if they put down their work?]] Then you would see what you have of paying the civil servants so badly – and how the new slaves treat them in Austria! You'd see that then! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Murauer: Don't talk about this, Mrs. Haidlmayr?]] And I guarantee you: This day is coming! – Or you finally accept reason and admit civil servants to the same as basic military servants. [[Abg. Murauer: I would advise you to accept reason!]] But that's not your intention, because even cheaper slaves as civil servants can't offer this republic any more! So you will have access to this potential as long as this is possible. But that, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, has nothing to do with Christian-social or as always you want to call yourself, absolutely nothing more, but that is exploitation of first rank!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e19877	Mr Fauland has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e19896	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to say that the military service also has its need and makes sense – and not just civil service! [[Congratulations on the liberals as well as on representatives of the ÖVP.]] I am looking at those who, in times of national defence, if necessary, or of the flood, stand there and, for example, make sandbags. – That was our basic defenses! You've made sure there's... [[Abg. May. Worm: And civilians!]] Our basic soldiers, the soldiers of the federal army, were those who served there in the homeland! In any case, I strongly reject the fact that there are some ratings here. We have a military service and we have a military service. [[Abg. Neudeck: The cast farmer was in France!]] And I'll get together. Both are useful, both are necessary, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals as well as on representatives of the ÖVP.]] But now to the field of internal security. In my view, security in Austria is a fundamental value that should not be discussed in itself. And maintaining security requires the necessary resources. In the 2005 estimate, the budget of the interior resort increases by just under €163 million. But does this increase also benefit internal security? – This should be considered differently, as regrettably, the additional effort to cover will be concentrated on additional expenditure for the support of asylum seekers and less on increasing security in Austria. But what is it all about safety in Austria? What are the dangers of the future? My colleague, Mr Maier – who is not present as usual – has said to my colleague, Partik-Pablé, that we only obtain our information from the “Kronen Zeitung” (Kronen Zeitung). - Please don't! Let us take, for example, the 2003 Security Report as one of the approaches. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] – 2003! Mrs. Colleague, listen and learn! – This 2003 safety report points out the increased urge of Czech asylum seekers and also points out that this creates a potential for danger. [[Abg. May. Worm: What? What?]] And if we know that 95 percent of these applications are being treated positively, and unfortunately already have to realize that such groups are starting to organize, this means that we have another problem for the future that comes to us. Let us come to 2004 – more up-to-date – and take the Constitutional Protection Report! On the subject of ‘Extremism and terrorism with foreign relations’, the introduction under the heading ‘1. General” – I simply can’t keep this from you –: “Ethnic, nationalistic/separatistic and ideological extremism with foreign relation is still of security police importance. In the period under review” – which was illuminated in 2003 – “Sunnitic Islamic extremism and terrorism represented the dominant peril.” “Ethnic, religious and ideological communities and their slides act as communicative vessels proving a high permeability for ideas, materials and persons.” [[Abg. May. Worm: All ‘-isms’ are bad!]] The “Press” – that is, not the “Kronen Zeitung”, but a very recognized medium, the “Press”, which warned on Saturday “Islamists in Austria on the march”. [[the speaker keeps the copy of the title page of a press issue up to date]] – So don’t pretend that something wouldn’t come up here! The latent increasing risk of terrorism, which is associated with it, also requires a rethinking in Austria, namely a rethinking going on, Minister of the Interior, not only to maintain observer status, but also to introduce developments through which we are preventively opposed to such possible scenarios in order not to have to respond in the event. Prevention has already been addressed by Mrs Wurm today, and in my view prevention is also a necessity: Prevention in advance as a means of internal security – this is a very essential part! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] A press release by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany is pleased to say that in the future he promises to the Justice and also to the Interior much more staff – that is, an advance to your request today. Finally, very briefly for the planned aggregation of the executive organs. It is important – and I am glad that the Federal Minister has already noted this today – that we pool resources through the merger, reduce resources in the administration, and thus result in a shift of personnel in the operational field of executives: More police officers on the street, less or no more discussions about closing posts and also more planning sites in the urban area are the consequences of this. The Austrian citizens have a right to a safe Austria! We are not concerned with the creation of a police state, but with the need for all Austrians to live in a safe country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e20002	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Darabos. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e20020	Mr President. Mr Strasser – “College” as a Civil Service Veteran – was a little impressed when you expressly extended the aid of the Federal Chancellor to the first four speakers in your replica. [[Rejoicing with representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP]] I remember you said on TV a few weeks ago on the “Report” show: I'll choose my own friends! – This change of mind will be to be questioned again. [[Abg. Kößl: What? What? What?]] Today, the ÖVP has taken two political categories out of the drawer. The one is the category of political amnesia – it was very funny what Mr Eßl so gave of himself –: never been there since 1989. And the second category is the question of refusal of reality, Mr Minister, and that is a serious issue! I have also come to know you in other functions, equipped with a very good basis of conversation, and I do not think it is okay for you to make yourself up here and continue this refusal of the ÖVP reality with an increase in the criminality of 450 000 crime cases in 1999 to now 700 000 crime cases. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: On the matter!]] [[Abg. Chastity: refusal of reality? Who, then, rejects reality for God's sake?]] [[Abg. Kößl:... the social image...! ... that the image of society has changed, then I'm sorry!]] And the education rate is falling from 51 percent to 37 percent! – This is not an exasperation, Mr Kößl, but it is simply a matter of thinking, and I would think that we should all reflect together on how we can improve this situation – instead of creating ourselves here and refusing to do reality! [[Abg. Kößl: That’s it: You’re yelling “more crime,” but if there’s more money, then you’re against it!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you put out the officials here and say the officials didn't deserve to be criticized, I'll tell you: No one criticizes the officials, but I think the officials have not deserved this place of business! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kößl: What? What?]] If you look at the last months, you have to say that this shoulder closure, which you intend to perform here between you and the officials, can only be seen as a wishful thought, for example, if you look at the personnel representation elections at the police in Vienna, where there have been double-digit increases for the FSG Group last year. The last point you mentioned and rejoiced here is the merger of police and gendarmerie. I think it's a good idea to be informed that you didn't claim too long ago: Before police and Gendarmerie are assembled under your leadership, the evangelical and the Catholic Church are assembled. [[Abg. Ing. Kapeller: Why are you so opposed to...?]] – So much for credibility in politics. I would also like to join my colleague Haidlmoser – sorry: [[Calls:Haidlmayr]] Haidlmayr; thank you! – which has focused on civil service. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Here you go!]] I have not found an approach in the light of the budget aimed at planning the Constitutional Court knowledge of the Civil Service Novel of the year 2000 in accordance with the budget, namely that civil servants are not fed at €6, but at €13.6 as you do. [[Abg. Kößl: Plus 27 percent for the budget civil service!]] – This is not my request, but the request of the Constitutional Court. If you think about it, that means that 2 700 € per civil servant per year will attack your place of business. [[Abg. Where's that?]] With 10,000 civil servants a year, the figure is €26.7 million. If you count this on the years you owe it to civil servants now, it is €100 million. I would urgently call on you to break your mind about how you want to spend this money. In addition, I would also like to take this budget debate as an opportunity to consider the peculiar proposal that your colleagues from the EIA are now apparently publicly venturing, namely, that civil service be fixed to nine months plus three months of voluntary service and to consider whether you want to comply with our proposal, namely: Six months are enough! Because civil servants and presenters do the same for the State, for the Republic of Austria, they should be treated equally!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e20207	Mr Miedl is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e20225	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Darabos, we are really hard to fulfil your wishes, because we do not know whether you still have the same wishes tomorrow. We don't know what you want today and tomorrow! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] It is already adventurous, Mr Darabos: The opposition complains that crime is rising so much. [[Abg. May. Worm: Oh, that's it? Can they do that?]] And it seems to me, Mrs. Wurm, that after every break-in, you're happy with the thief: Ha, one more thing happens! We're gonna hang this up to the Minister! – Yes, do you think he's ordering the burglar? Do you think we have a joy that this is? [[Abg. May. Worm:... for the fight against crime and prevention!]] Do you think that is different in Germany, Mrs. Worm, in Sweden or in France? [[Call at the ÖVP: This is Europe...!]] Unfortunately, God has become a European phenomenon. [[Abg. Riepl: You don't mind!]] – Listen to me, colleague. Let me speak, I'd like to tell you what we're doing. You haven't done anything for twenty years, colleagues from the SPÖ. Mr Darabos! [[Abg. May. Darabos speaks aloud towards a Member of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.]] Do you listen to me? Are you talking to another? Are we here in plenary or somewhere? - Thank you many times. Two things from our point of view are caused by the fact that we have these conditions. First: Criminals, as we know, do not have to comply with law, but the executive must. [[Abg. May. Posch:... Philosophicum!]] And: The mobility of criminals has increased. – Also a knowledge that may be new for Darabos and Parnigoni. . And it is also about the fact that many of the neighbouring countries, Mr. Cot, are also misusing their new freedom. And new is also that the electronics are used and there are many new forms of crime that have not yet existed. – And now there are some strategies. The first strategy we are focusing on is education and prevention. Yes, we insist: that the population is informed that it can help itself by far and that the executive is also involved in the prevention network. The second strategy: We need motivated security professionals. We need a motivated executive! And what you do about the opposition – especially you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ – is anything but a motivation for security professionals. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Ask a colleague!]] [[Abg. May. Darabos: Ask your colleagues!]] For party political reasons, they're going anywhere where they're going. I myself witnessed such agitation, ladies and gentlemen, and we are not doing well. This is also wrong, Mr Darabos – you know it very well! The third strategy, Mr President, and now I am with you, is the question of the structures. You know, I've still been on duty – I'm a police officer myself – when it was impossible to send an e-mail from a police guard room to a gendarmerie post with a fencing photo. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Because there was no e-mail at the time, it's been so long!]] [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] – Good morning, colleague. You're on your way! Do you know how long the e-mail has been available? Mr. Col., you're a lawyer? But you haven't treated many cases in your life, have you? It was mainly political on the road! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] – So we need modern structures! And here a minister goes and does it: to break up and reorganize such growing structures. That is not easy with God! And there is now also new content: We'll be on 9. In December we discussed the new Security Police Act, where we can also fill the prophylaxis in terms of content. Mr President, I am delighted to see how the SPÖ will behave. In fact, video surveillance in the future should also be permitted by law through security police law. I'm excited about how you're going to behave. My look goes in your direction when we will vote. [[the speaker turns towards SPÖ]] And I will then ask you to vote in favour of this, because this is about structures and that is about laws with which the executive is able to work. That's what this Minister is doing. Ladies and gentlemen, and he's holding his head for it! And this is not an easy task with God in view of the increased crime and new forms of crime. I only mention one thing: drug crime. That's where the SPÖ plays a very strange role. Drug crime is increasing to an extent that has really grown. Ladies and gentlemen, today I have read on the ORF homepage that, according to estimates, there are around 50 locals in Vienna where drugs are also offered in addition to alcohol consumption or after alcohol consumption or during consumption. And then, at the same time, there is the homepage of the socialist youth, where, as it were, it is still offered: “Dear fuck as drunken driving!” – These are also strategies of the SPÖ, I must say, with which I do not get along so easily, ladies and gentlemen. – And then there is still a green group that is for the release of cannabis. I don't understand how you can do that, given the fact that everyone is now aware that cannabis is at least as dangerous as many other addictions, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally – I have so much to say! –: Executive work is the exercise of state violence. This is not always easy because the person against whom this violence is directed does not always agree – or hardly – with it. Nevertheless, democracy needs to be treated very sensitively and transparently with such means of power. And I think there is a minister who is in charge of these principles, and he is worth being supported. I would therefore ask you to support this question.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e20389	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e20407	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me first address some previous speakers. There was Mr Fauland, who spoke about the need for security. I thought: Perhaps he should talk about the question of security within the Freedom Party, because with regard to such things as saber-fights, duels and the like, I already wonder if this does not endanger security. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Go, please!]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Fortunately, straches and co, which perform these medieval or even older rituals, only self and one another, and not the generality. At least that's something, but I think you should consider it once if you really think it's a useful activity. – We certainly don’t, and not in terms of security at all. I would also like to say a word about Mr Ellmauer. – Mr Ellmauer,... [[Abg. Ellwall is not in the meeting room.]] [[Abg. Grandruck: I cover him up!]] Yeah? - I'm not so sure! [[Abg. Grandruck: To me, please! I'll tell him then!]] I have always met Mr Ellmauer in the Committee on Human Rights, in fact, as a very sensible colleague of the ÖVP, who, especially when it comes to human rights issues, has always tried to reach a consensus, to express criticism in a way that it can also be recognized, and to express criticism at all. So I was very surprised now when he said to someone at once – it was either one of the SPÖs or the Greens, I don't know anymore –: Finally, stop pulling our country into the trash! [[Abg. Murauer: If Ellwall says something like that, then that already has a meaning!]] So such words from Mr Ellmauer are new to me. Perhaps you'll do this to him, Mr Großruck, because that's actually just something we've been discussing this afternoon: You don't keep it when someone's criticizing you! [[Abg. Großruck: And what are you doing? – You criticize him now!]] And I do not think we need to sit in Parliament as opposition and government if you are not willing to listen to criticism! – So I just apologized for such expressions from someone from the ÖVP, whom I have actually come to know as very sensible. [[Abg. Großruck:... “the Saustall Austria miss out once”! - Who was that?]] But now to the Minister. – Mr Minister, first of all, you have stated that you recognise the decision taken by the Human Rights Advisory Council today that the lawyer, Bürstmayr, has now been elected Head of the Commission. I can't say I'm glad that Bürstmayr was elected. I mean, you could've said you didn't recognize that, but I would've found that very worrying if you hadn't. I am very glad that the Human Rights Advisory Council has adopted this decision. But I would not like to abstain from a few other points that have been discussed in this Human Rights Advisory Council today, according to APA. Mr Minister, according to APA, the head of this Commission has made “no havoc on the problem of it”, “that” – and I am now quoting the APA – “was rejected the proposal of the Strasser Advisory Council, moreover without justification”. – You did not tell us that this criticism was very good. And a second: In fact, the Human Rights Advisory Council – including today’s APA, 7.22 a.m. – “in a written decision, on the investigations against Bürstmayr and Lorenz..., expressed its alien on the ministry’s procedure”. And: “There has been practically unanimity in this point.” Mr Minister, I would like to hear from you what you are saying about this criticism. We discussed this in the urgent last week. Your approach in this regard, the procedure of your ministry was at least worrying, which was rejected! It was not worthy of a democratic system! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] And I am very glad that the Human Rights Advisory Council has now appointed Mr. Bürstmayr again. Another point is the VfGH knowledge; my colleague, Ollinger, mentioned the deportation of two women and a child from Chechnya to Poland at the beginning of November. When you spoke, you thought it had already been said that such “dublin deportations” are no longer happening. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Strasser.]] – In the form no longer happens, I have understood. I've been looking at the APA notification. It states that, after the delivery of the VfGH knowledge, the adoption of Dublin documents is suspended. “Although no rallying has yet been made in the federal law paper, it is now possible to suspend the adoption of Dublin documents with a view to the delivery of the VfGH’s knowledge.” – APA, today 13.51 o’clock. But you have not said whether, given the deportation of these two refugees and the child, you intend to do something. They have been unconstitutionally postponed. They now claim that this has not yet been published and therefore the VfGH notice has not yet been valid. But you have to think about it and at least try to get these refugees back from Poland so that they can wait here for the notice and the next instance. Just to say, from now on, we are no longer doing this, and they have just been postponed, which does not correspond to the knowledge of the Constitutional Court, at least not according to the understanding of our Greens. That you obviously have a different opinion, I think I have to take note of. Mr Minister, one point on the budget: At the first moment, it is gratifying that under the item “Gender aspect of the budget”, you have highlighted and described the intervention agencies. In principle, I welcome this, just as in general, the fact that these intervention agencies have been fighting violence in the family since 1998, that there is one of them in every federal state, and that they are supported by both the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Women, and partly also by the federal states. This is very gratifying, because it actually allows approaches to protect both the victims – they are immediately passed on by the police to the intervention agencies that can then treat the cases directly – as well as to work with the perpetrators, for example. Especially in Vienna there is a programme together with the men's advice from the intervention agency, in which also the perpetrators are working. I think these are very important things. This Austrian Code of Victim Protection has also experienced great support abroad and is really something created by the NGOs, by the women's organizations and then implemented together with them. There's a lot of positive things happening. But – and now the big But! – what you do not include in your chapter on the gender aspect of the budget is that these intervention agencies have far too little budget resources at their disposal, that they do not yet know what it will be like in 2005, that they also suffered reductions in 2004, especially the Vienna intervention agency, and that, as was noted in 2003 against the Ministry of the Interior, the care cases have more than tenfold since 1998, but the budget has only increased by 40 percent. [[Federal Minister Dr. Strasser: So it has risen!]] That's like saying ten times more cases are to be processed, but there's not even half more money. It is quite clear that this cannot happen, and you know just as well as I do that the Vienna intervention agency had to say last year, individual districts, individual areas can no longer care for them. They've been assigned a lot more women's cases by the police than they've been able to care for. So you know very well that there is a big deficit and that these bodies need more money. You said earlier that you don't have to have more people and more budget everywhere, but it's important that you get it when you need staff. [[Abg. Wöginger goes to the government bank and talks with Federal Minister Dr. Strasser.]] I am already wondering how you can be responsible for writing the intervention agencies into the explanations on the budget as a major point in the gender aspect of the budget, but at the same time giving them less and less money – less and less money in relation to what they have to work. Now I'll wait for the staff to stop talking to the Minister. [[Abg. Wöginger: The colleague, Mrs Colleague!]] [[Abg. Friend: This is the Lord Wöginger!]] - Excuse me, otherwise it's not usual for a parliamentarian to stand there in the back! Mr Minister, you yourself have said – I repeat that once again – that it is important to get it if you need staff. This is about the area of security for women and children threatened by violence in the families, and also, as Mr Wurm has already said, for people affected by trafficking in women and human beings. Fortunately, there are care centres in Austria, but they have too little money for the need that is unfortunately there. They also have too little money to be able to work preventively, and there is also much more to work within the framework of the police. A lot has already happened. I'm not saying nothing happened at all, but they also need more money. Only when sufficient financial resources are actually set up can you rightly claim that it is a real security budget. As you have said, it is mainly about security in the sense of more police, gendarmerie, mergers et cetera. The area where people in their own four walls have to be protected from violence or, if it has already happened, have to get emergency help, however, is a very important part of security, and it needs much more money. Minister! As long as you – and this is just one aspect of the internal budget – are not willing to provide these organisations with financial resources according to the needs, there will be a problem in the area and people there will not be able to do their work as it would be necessary. As I said, this is about protecting women and children in their own four walls. – This too is an important part of security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e20602	The next speaker to speak is Mr Deputie's friend. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e20620	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The sense of security is one of the essential needs of every person in Austria. With this budget, this Federal Government has tried to create even more security for the citizens of our country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In the Federal Estimate for 2005 this point is very important. We spend around € 4.7 billion for internal and external security as well as for justice, and that is certainly a proud sum. That means concrete: plus € 163 million for the Interior, plus € 70 million for military affairs and a plus of € 100 million for justice. – This is a More than €330 million for safety in Austria [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This government has begun to make a safe Austria, and now it is also a success of this policy. Crime in Austria is falling. For the first time in a year and a half, the number of crimes in five federal states has fallen – thanks to Minister of the Interior of Strasser and his and our policies. [[Abg. Gaál: Despite Strasser!]] From January to October 2004, there were less 7 000 ads compared to the previous year, and even in Vienna there is a decline. This proves to me that our executive officers do excellent work. I would like to thank you at this point for your commitment to all of our security, which often goes beyond what is required. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] According to a study by the Swiss IMD Institute, Austria is in first place in the field of security among 50 industrial nations. We owe this to Federal Minister Strasser and his executive officers. Of course, organized international crime is a major problem. The Federal Minister has also responded correctly to the increasing crime in Europe with increased preventive work. In the future, everything will be done to ensure this high level of security. The main focus is on foreign service, because we need an executive who is on the go and can intervene quickly in the case of crime. Since 2000, the number of foreign officials has increased by around 560. The number is constantly increasing. In Upper Austria, for example, 50 new executives will start their training again in autumn. The foreign service of the Upper Austrian Executive could already be increased by about 150 officials this year. 81 other police and gendarmerie students are in training. [[Abg. Parnigoni: And 150 go to bed!]] These are a total of about 280 executive officials more for Upper Austria. I therefore do not understand at all the criticism of Landeshauptmann Deputy Haider in Upper Austria, who is constantly demanding even more officials if already massively opposed. [[Abg. Parnigoni: What do you say about FPÖ? ...600 policemen...!]] Federal Minister Ernst Strasser and his team have set themselves a major task with the executive reform. This reform will bring less bureaucracy and more performance to our executives, and of course it is also a major challenge for our executives. I believe that the measures for security by this Federal Government are very positive. This budget will provide even more security for our citizens in a viable and secure country in Austria. Estimated Minister of State! I would like to thank you for your excellent work and for your commitment and, of course, agree with this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e20704	The next item is the speech by Mr Gaál. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e20725	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said a lot of right and done today, in particular by the colleagues of the opposition! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Therefore, allow me to take a very brief position on two topics, which are very important to me, Minister of State. These are civil protection and civil protection as well as the security situation in Vienna. The first part is very encouraging. With nine national organizations, we work as an extended arm of the Ministry of the Interior and on your behalf to set up these security centres in Austria. They have also provided us with the necessary financial resources to build up these centres as a network of citizens that creates trust and security. Similarly successful is the child safety solympiade – “Safety-Tour 2004”. More than 42 000 children were involved at the county and at the national level this year, and our concept of learning security and proper behaviour in emergency and disaster situations has gone up in a playful way. I would also like to thank you for the great support. We have found great interest and recognition across Europe. As you know – we have been able to tell you – we are in the process of implementing this security initiative as a European project in other EU countries. [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] – In this case, the applause is exceptionally justified. But, Mr Federal Minister, unfortunately, this success cannot be easily transferred to the security situation in Vienna, and I am very concerned. [[Oje-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] The rigorous savings measures of the Federal Government, which, of course, do not stop even before the security executive – and that for years now – have a negative impact on Vienna. Although there is more money this year – €163 million, you have managed a lot – but these financial resources, as I have been able to draw from the budget, are mostly in the area of asylum and civil service, and there is relatively little left for executives – in reality even less money than in 2003 and 2004 in terms of operational areas, protection and security. Therefore, the fears and fears of the population, especially in the Federal Capital, are of course right to take more than rightful and serious. If you remember the “Kurier” and “Presses” survey, you know that the sense of security here in Vienna is decreasing, Mr. Federal Minister! About 76 percent feel less secure, and that is a question of presence and prevention. There is still too little executive on site! With fewer and fewer police officers, you can't maintain this security standard. If you have said, Mr. Federal Minister, that there will be more police for Vienna from 2005 on – you have called the number 500 – you know that the future police still have the training ahead of you. There will also be some jumping down again, and we will be commuting with 400 men or women. You know there's hardly been any new shots in the past few years, and the police schools are empty. You have a need to catch up, and I think you will hardly be able to cover it. I hope so, but I don't think you can even re-occupy the retirement leave. Federal Minister! In all the districts of Vienna there is an blatant support. This applies both to the security guard and to the criminal service. also for the police administration. There's no police at all corners and ends. The policy, Mr Federal Minister, is obliged to give protection and security to the people. We are committed to this policy. That is why we cannot go along with the way you are going, and therefore this policy does not agree with us.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e20816	Mr Neugebauer has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e20834	Mr President. Federal Minister! I would like to thank you very much for the good social dialogue we have found with regard to the security executive of Austria in a phase of reorganisation. [[Abg. May. Posch: Is there an agreement? What's the deal?]] The colleague was very positive that there would be 800 new recordings by the end of 2005 and that the budget for the expenditure on matters would be increased by € 106 million. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You have to say that with retirement!]] We have worked together on the issue of the testing of the service time systems that we remain with the proven service time systems, and we have also taken the executive service law after good preliminary consultations with the life-time model – a difficult word, Mr. Colleague, since you have to deepen yourself a bit – accordingly into negotiation. [[Abg. May. Posch: The Lord Neugebauer does not speak to....! An unpleasant thing!]] I am now allowed to report that after our preliminary discussions, the Federal Minister for Social Affairs has now succeeded in tackling the heavy-worker regulation for the colleagues of the executive. I am saying this because Mr Klubobmann – not the managing director but Mr Klubobmann – has recently assembled that the heavy-worker regulation, which is in the room, is not yet full of life. That's her in the meantime. We have also explained them accordingly. [[Abg. May. Posch: Courage! Decisiveness! Enforcement! Integrity!]] Under the Night Heavy Labour Act, special work under heat and cold and heavy physical work will be taken into account, but also shift services and all those obligations to seek a job-related risk, and we will also meet our colleagues in the Executive. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Is there an agreement?]] This has already been prepared and negotiated with the Minister for Social Affairs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. May. Posch: determination! Courage! Integrity!]] At this point I should like to thank you very much for the fact that the colleagues in the executive area are not only those who are on the road during sun, heat, rain, snow, day and night, on Sundays and holidays, but that it is their duty to look for the danger. And I believe that this field of activity deserves our special attention with this threat. [[Abg. May. Posch: Resistance!]] Federal Minister! I thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e20974	The next speaker was Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e20992	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! If Mr Strasser said today that Austria is a safe country, we are all happy about it. That Austria is a safe country we owe to the Austrian executive. We appreciate this, and we thank our colleagues very much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Posch: We also thank you for the intellectual courage of my colleague Neugebauer!]] Ladies and gentlemen! But we also want to remain a safe country. We know that international developments also come to us. However, I am surprised that the ladies and gentlemen of the government groups have, throughout the budget debate, rejected all the chapters to argue in absolute numbers, and have kept us constantly from putting everything in relation. However, this budget chapter is constantly argued in absolute figures. – We only need to look at this, and that is not so long ago, we do not need to think back to 1889, but it is enough to remember the last Social Democratic Minister of the Interior: At that time we had over 3% of the total budget for the Internal Chapter, but today we are below 3%! Ladies and gentlemen! Now I use your own relation bill: How would we like it? – The one budget chapter is argued with absolute figures, but the other budget chapter puts it in relation. Dear friends! That's it! [[Abg. Kößl: 163 million more!]] Dear friend Günter Kößl, we can already entertain more than 500 future planning sites. Who talked about it in 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2003, 2004 and 2005? [[Abg. Kößl: You have to start in 1996, 1997 and 1998!]] Wait a bit! There were hundreds of retirements around 700 a year. That means: You lower the staff level by more than 3,000 people and celebrate when we get a few hundred people in addition! – This is a milkmaid bill par excellence, ladies and gentlemen! If we take security seriously, then, as I believe, we have to consider, above all, the following: We will discuss this law in a few days, and I appeal to you all, ladies and gentlemen: The executive is doing great things, so we should also give her a lot of security. Many measures are uncertain to colleagues, Günter, both of us know that we do not need to discuss this for long. That is why I believe that we – and I will not get tired of mentioning this – should also convey the necessary peace and security to such a sensitive area. Mr Neugebauer has just left, but if we talk so much about justice, I would like to hold on to something: The discussion about the executive service law is an old one, but you can now quickly prove how you live the public service! Say a proper salary increase – everyone is happy, Günter! – and agrees with our motion for a resolution: 1 000 more planning places for the executive!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e21062	As the next speaker, Mr Ing. Kapeller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e21083	Mr President. Highly esteemed Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start because this topic has already been edited so many times today. Until 2000, it was an unwritten appointment requirement for the elevated police service that you have a SPÖ party book. [[Abg. Parnigoni: This is a smooth untruth! And since you're consciously saying that, it's even an immeasurable one!]] And just because now the wise minds are finally in demand, you see the world going down! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It can't be! The only thing that actually sinks is the red stars in this place. Some have not understood that they have not turned the official's office to a SPÖ minister, but to the Republic of Austria, and some of them are also generals! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] But now to the budget, to the figures that document the security: Over 100 million more will be available for the interior resort next year. 500 officials will be fully trained by 2006 and used for security in Austria. But there are not only personnel and high-tech to combat crime, but, Mrs Wurm, it will be given special attention to preventive measures, because we all know: We do not need to explain any crime that is not committed. I repeat Mrs Wurm's comments: Preventive measures and preventive projects are coming enormously. There's never been as many as now. “Security and Economy” is one of the most recent projects launched by this Minister together with the Austrian Chamber of Commerce. However, I would also like to quote others: There have never been so many instruments for the efficient fight against crime. Members have never had such efficient instruments in their hands, such as monthly crime statistics, security monitoring and precise analyses. This is a merit of this ministry, its officials, our minister Strasser, but also the director of the Federal Criminal Office Herwig Haidinger. I would like to say something else at this point: Let's look at the numbers! It has never been invested as much in structural measures as under this Minister Dr. Ernst Strasser. There are 53 either newly built or renovated security services in Upper Austria alone. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In addition to more money, there is also a new self-confidence in the executive by merging the two wakes. A particular social aspect is the possibility of inclusion in the heavy-worker scheme. The career opportunities have improved thanks to the SIAK, and good legal basis for preventing crime is provided by video surveillance and the protection zone. With our policy, the executive, ladies and gentlemen, is very easy to guarantee the product of services security for Austrians in the future. I would like to thank you, Mr Strasser, as well as your officials.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e21142	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Posch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e21161	Mr President. Minister! High house! On the internal budget it is to be said that in fact €1 893 million is estimated for 2005, thus a total of 9 per cent more, with almost 60 per cent of the Ministry of the Interior spending on personnel expenditure for the security executive. However, it is not possible to assess whether these expenditures are realistically estimated in view of the restructurings ahead and also in view of the strained personnel situation and the rapid increase in crime, as well as the falling awareness rate and the increasing number of asset offences. Furthermore, it is not clear how much funds are available for the protection zones provided for in the Security Police Act, because there will certainly be a significant additional amount of hours of staff and how many zones of protection will be available and how much resources will be needed. The same applies to the video surveillance of public spaces provided for in the Security Police Act. There is also a certain need for more hours of staff. The budgetary resources for the new car equipment provided for in the Security Police Act, the new uniforms, the new logos and inscriptions also appear to be very small. The field of asylum and tourism is heavily mediated. However, this represents only a small share of the budget, i.e. a total of € 127 million, with about 80 million going to refugee care. However, on the basis of the new Article 15a agreement on basic care, the funds for refugee care increase by 50 million compared to the 2004 estimate. That's nice. And it is also gratifying that in the UBAS area there is an authorisation in case higher costs are provided, so that an additional dosage is possible. However, whether the overall funds for a law-compliant implementation of the Asylum Act will be provided under the premise of processing the setback may be doubted. We hope, at least, that it should be added here that it is not yet clear how much resources will be needed in accordance with the statement of the Constitutional Court and by what means you, Mr Minister, will solve this problem. You have said in an interview that you will assume about 550 additional asylum seekers, and I personally regret that you regret that Austria is supposed to have become a more attractive asylum destination with this knowledge. [[Abg. That's right, isn't it?]] In fact, Mr Minister, under the pressure of FPÖ Austria, the asylum law imposed by you has brought it to the right political edge of Europe, and it has been in several respects unconstitutional and human rights. You have nevertheless enforced it, against the concerns of the UNHCR and of constitutional experts, of the Red Cross and also of aid organizations close to your party. The bill has been presented to you by the Constitutional Court. Finally, let me say one more word about the case of human rights lawyers Bürstmayr and Lorenz. I am pleased that, after massive interventions, we have also succeeded in moving you to the ground. This is to be noted here, because we believe that this was really a case of prying and of unscrupulous replication. We believe that this has not revealed a good style and was an extremely unpleasant story in the field of your ministry. We want to acknowledge that you've inspired it. That's gratifying. You don't need much to talk about it anymore. Sometimes it is also very good when the opposition shows something and the matter turns in the right way. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e21197	Mr Schöls has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e21216	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In the context of the debate on the internal budget, I would like to thank, in particular, those colleagues who, on the spot, ensure safety every day at every hour, and I can guarantee that we will continue to do everything in the future by the Austrian People's Party in the Federal Government that they will find optimal conditions for this service. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The budget for the coming year provides for significant increases and allows the Federal Minister and his officials to make the necessary purchases in the exercise of their responsibilities, e.g. when it comes to improving the IT equipment or acquiring appropriate motor vehicles that also serve the safety of public servants if they can accommodate their equipment accordingly. I would also like to thank Mr Gaál and Mr Pendl for the first part of their speech. If you listen to some of the contributions to the opposition, you really believe that we have been shot off, that crime is produced in Austria, or that we are just trying to produce high numbers here. Some may still remember that security reports have been discussed for years among socialist interior ministers. We have not even been able to dig out in the archives of the editors the cases mentioned here in the House in the context of the security reports. Now we have another emotionality, because there are up-to-date figures monthly. Mr Pendl pointed out that Mr Gaál at the outset also thanked the Minister for what he had done in the field of civil protection and in other areas. Unfortunately, God has again passed through the opposition role. [[Abg. Gaál: I am bound to the truth!]] But executives know who works for them. Federal Minister! I can thank you and your house very much for this. The Social Democrats remind me a little of what has once happened in sport: There was the Hattiwari, and like it, you also make politics: Had’ i’ only the possibility, then was’ i’ eh for it, but so am i’ against it.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e21250	As the next speaker, Mrs Pepper is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e21269	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If I wait until the lawyers decide everything, I don't have to start! – Minister of State Strasser, these are your words with regard to the concentration of the police and the Gendarmerie you are planning, according to APA report of 22. October of this year. Do not start at all: Yes, that would in principle be best, and this for a number of reasons. – Once again, there are massive objections from constitutional experts that the way you choose is not constitutional in the combination of the wax bodies. Nevertheless, you are not prepared to put the implementation of the police reform on ice or at least to wait until the constitutional conformity has been clarified, because it is about a lot of power and many choices you can make through the new law itself. [[Abg. Miedl: It's about security!]] It's about security, too, of course! But with the combination, all executive organs are directly subordinated to the Minister of the Interior, and you can intervene directly everywhere. But that's not all! It is a new law, so all functions must also be rewritten. More than 10,000 executive officials who are already carrying out their duties must be afraid of their job. In this context, Mr Minister, women do not need a lot of imagination to figure out which officials will keep their job and which will not be, because you have recently presented us with impressively how successful and respected security officials who were inconvenient to you have been expelled, expelled from posts or sent to retirement. Such actions are not only undemocratic, but also make a great social cold felt. Federal Minister! Although the internal budget has been increased by more than 9 percent this year, it must nevertheless be seen in relation to the overall budget, and it is clear that this share is lower than in 1999 under a SPÖ Minister of the Interior. [[Abg. Kößl: There has never been an increase to this extent!]] There it was more than 3 percent, and now we are clearly below this value. The fact that this government is spending too little money on security can be demonstrated by criminal statistics. I have a current statistics from my federal state of Burgenland: Almost 10,000 crimes were reported from January to October 2004. This is a plus of 4.4 percent, or it's 408 more offences than in the same period of the previous year. Even if you do not like to hear it, Minister of State, and obviously every appeal comes from you: Nevertheless, the population has a right to safety, and you should consider that! It is not that we do not appreciate and appreciate the work of officials. We recognize their good work, and I can also express my warmest thanks to the officials at this point.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e21318	The next speaker was Mrs Tamandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e21337	Mr President. Minister of the Interior! Ladies and gentlemen, Austria is the safest country. We have heard this many times today, it has also been demented often, but Austria is indeed the safest country according to the 2004 Security Index. Security is an important value for the Federal Government, and it is also important to the Minister of the Interior, which is already seen in the share of the Federal Ministry of Internal Affairs in the state budget of 2.7 percent. If you, Mrs Pepper, say that this is significantly less than 3%, then I don't know if you've been watching in the school in Rechen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaál.]] Mr Strasser, Minister of the Interior, was extremely successful in the budgetary negotiations and thus achieved a clear success for our security. Next year – we have heard it often enough – around 163 € more are available in the Ministry of Interior. [[Abg. Gaál: We already heard that!]] You have also repeated enough! There are currently 900 police officers and gendarmen in education throughout Austria, and by the end of 2005, additional 800 executive officials will be able to be taken up. That makes this budget possible. Ladies and gentlemen! Especially I am annoyed by the fact that the Vienna SPÖ and first of all mayor Häupl are crying out for more police, after a plus of 1,000 policemen. I emphasize: It has never been done as much for Vienna's security as under the ÖVP's Minister of the Interior! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] And there's something else you need to be very clear about: It has never held an interior minister to his officials like our Interior Minister Strasser! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] For example, I mention the overtime budget: This is already secured with €3 million more this year, and it will continue to be secured with these 3 million more next year. The topic of prevention: I myself was at a meeting of the Minister of the Interior in spring under the title "Security for Seniors". However, the senior representatives of the parties apparently had nothing better to do than polemize. The Greens obviously have no senior representatives, but the Minister of Finance, a. D. Edlinger, has only polemized and said: We need more than 1,000 police officers! – I don’t know what this has to do with the issue of “security for seniors”, “cetera” and “cetera”. Mr Gaál, take an example of Mr Cap, who was yesterday at an event of the ÖVP Währing and Hernals! I'll invite you as a neighbor. To come to me in Simmering November! Come and discuss safety with us! I can now thank the Minister of the Interior for the measures he sets for Vienna so that Vienna continues to set a safe world city.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e21397	I call Mr Dobnigg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e21416	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start with a small quiz: Who are the following statements from? – Under my leadership, no gendarmerie posts are closed. The combination of Gendarmerie and police is not possible, because that would be like bringing the Catholic together with the Protestant Church. And the third statement: There are more executive officials in the field than ever before. The answer is, of course, not difficult for you, ladies and gentlemen: It's Minister of Interior Strasser. As it turned out, all of these were completely wrong. The truth is that since 2000, 119 Gendarmerie Posts have been closed in its era. The merger of Gendarmerie and Police will be implemented in 2005. And since 2000, 3 000 executive officials have been saved by Minister Strasser. Mr Minister, whether you have made these false statements aware or out of inability: Both disqualified you as Minister of the Interior. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) As a Styrian Member, I can tell you the situation in our federal state. ==References== ==References====External links==* Official website So in my home country, every tenth army official is missing. If you look even more closely, you can see that the situation is even more dramatic. As the customs agents are more likely to live near the border, the highest Irish districts have a staff failure of up to 14 percent. And taking into account the hours for special use in the Styria even more than a quarter of the officials are missing for an actual service in normal foreign service. In addition to the beautiful presentation of the personnel situation, Mr Minister, you also deceive the population with the education rate. In fact, your beautiful criminal statistics also contain those offences that have already been clarified in the case-law. However, essentially the unexplained cases are such as the exploding number of breakdowns. From January to October this year, there were 8 670 burglaries in Styria, 14 percent more than a year ago. Only 1,517 cases were clarified. This is an education rate of 17.5 percent. Mr Miedl, this is the reality in Styria! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Austria has never been in the Second Republic – and this is the sad news and truth – as uncertain as it is today. Minister, don't deceive the Austrians! Don't give them a hell of a world! Quit your wrong strategy! At present, there are very interesting headlines in the newspapers such as “Exciting for Moulkorberlass. ” It is claimed that the officials will miss a muzzle and it will be censored. Ladies and gentlemen! We all know that the safety need for most people has a particularly high priority. That should also be known to you, Mr Federal Minister. That is why appropriate security for the population, as well as their belongings and property, is simply an obligation. But at this point I can also ask you: We need safety on the ground and not in the air! [[Abg. Murauer: Also in the air!]] This government throws out a lot of money with both hands for these useless Eurofighters. As in so many other cases, this policy is directed against the vast majority of Austrians. But the next election day will also come for you. And this election day will be a payday for all of you from ÖVP and FPÖ!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e21458	Mr Strasser, Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e21479	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! They allow me to make a few observations on some statements. It is a fact and to read that we have a decline in crime throughout Austria by almost 1.5 percent and in Vienna by almost 8 percent. This is a success of the new structure, which is a success of the officials working there. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Wurm. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European They brought the expression “supposed young people. ” – You know that legislation is country-related in this respect and that we have significantly increased our role in the areas of control activity. In other words, in Vienna there is a doubling of special uses in essential areas, in Salzburg checks around the Rudolfskai, also checks in Innsbruck where you come from. There were 133 000 in 2002 alone, 156,000 alcohol controls in 2003. Perhaps this could be done by someone who is a member of the parliament. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Enjoy!]] Here is Mr. Mayor of Imst, who certainly has a close relationship. [[in the direction of the Abg. Reheat]] Do you know what the situation is like in Rapoldipark? With regard to intervention agencies, Mrs Wurm and Mrs Lunacek, I should like to say: In 2000, we had planned €1.3 million, in 2001, 1.4 million, in 2002 and 1.57 million in 2004, and € 1.84 million in 2005. That's a steady rise. It is true that we cannot always fulfill all the wishes of all the officials or employees concerned. But I trust to say that this is percentage of the strongest increases in the whole field of the Ministry of the Interior – perhaps with the exception of the refugee world. That's what I'm asking to see. Prevention will be a priority for the next year. We from the Ministry of the Interior plan an intensive campaign together with the curatorium Safe Austria and the corresponding media. Mr Darabos may be able to do the following because he has been involved in civil service: The civil service system works very well. When I look at the figures, I see that in 2000 we had 5,000 civilians, in 2001 7 000, in 2002 8 200, in 2003 8 700, in 2004, we will have 9 599 civilians. The budget for civil service will be increased by €9 million in 2005. These are the facts, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Another word to pay. I have been told that I have not checked this, but I have no doubt that this information from the National Council of Wöginger will be passed on to all the members of the National Council. The sum of € 13.60, which you always get into the meeting when it comes to the remuneration of present-day servants at the Federal Army, will be due if it is a mission outside the barracks or if someone is not in the barracks. Otherwise, at €3.40, I'll be told. Of course, you have to put this into relation when you discuss it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs Lunacek referred once again to the disfellowshippings. I can clarify this once again, because there seems to be a great misunderstanding here. In the event of a withdrawal under the Dublin Convention, the designation of the Constitutional Court of Justice shall be based on a targeted examination of the individual conduct of deportation barriers, in particular in the case of illness or pregnancy. This is required immediately after the oral announcement by the Federal Asyl Office. I should like to present this information, which comes from my competent staff, here again. Next point: Mr Gaál, I would like to cordially invite you: Come to the Moroccan barracks! You won't find a free space there because the Moroccan barracks is overcrowded. Do you know what the situation is really like? – We are currently training so many police officers in Vienna that we have even given a course to Carinthia because we have no place in the Moroccan barracks. The situation is how many young men and women are getting into the police. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In this way, the state of staff of the security guard in Vienna. These are figures I have from the Federal Police Directorate in Vienna. In 1995 we had 4 232 employees who were on the street in Vienna. In 2000, there were 4 316, in 2003 there were 4,539, and in 2004 there are 4,605. Never before have so many employees been on the streets of Vienna's service. It's true that we don't have so many employees in the administration. There, with leave, they are not used as much as on the street where we use them. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Bucher.]] A reference to the budget with regard to security tasks. They know the Federal Estimate 2004. Here is intended for security tasks – you can see the figures –: €1,406 307 billion. In the Federal estimates 2005 € 1.492 814 billion is planned. Deputies! You see, this is an increase in security tasks by more than €80 million. How can you say that doesn't go up? – This simply does not correspond to the documents we have submitted to the House. I would like to congratulate Mr Neugebauer on the outcome of the staff representation of the public service with the Minister of Social Affairs on the heavy-worker scheme. This will be a massive improvement in the work situation and the entire life situation for our police and gendarmen. – Thank you very much for that! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Scheibner.]] To Mr Posch, as regards protection zones and video surveillance. It is obvious that it is good that we use technical tools. That's going to be a More safety in the case of effort neutrality for our work means. That's why we're forcing it. I can tell you quite openly because you spoke to the UBAS: More staff usually means more output. In the UBAS, there have been ten more employees there for some time, but in the last month the UBAS still had less output. That seems not to be the case. The problem is that the rulers there can do and leave whatever they want – without any arrangement. There is something we have to do, there we have to put on, the UBAS is not working in Austria at the moment! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Posch: You need qualified staff!]] The question is too small a means for the new police. I should like to give you the following example: Through the reorganisation, through the new uniforms and vehicles, we will get into the situation that we can provide 250 vehicles more for the new police. We will not have a car in use for more than three years. This is the reorganisation that will be possible through “team04”. I would like to say to Mr Pendl: Yes, I have looked at this and I am not ashamed – perhaps you can direct it to him; where is a Never-Austrian MP? Mr Parnigoni, if you would like to say that to Mr Pendl – if we look at the percentage of the BMI budget in the Federal Budget, for example, since 1994: [[Abg. Parnigoni nodd]] As a percentage, the percentage of 1994 was 2.49 percent, 1995 2.96%, 1997 2.80%, 1998 2.83, 1999 and 2000 respectively, and now it is 2.96%. This is the second highest percentage. Twice it has succeeded in having a higher one, but I can tell you – and I ask Mr Pendl to say that – that is the second highest percentage that the Ministry of the Interior has ever achieved. – That too, so that the historical truth will be brought about a breakthrough! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To Mrs National Councillor Pepper. Member of the European Parliament, you criticise the fact that after the merger of Gendarmerie and police, the executive will be subordinated to the Minister of the Interior. - Yeah, who's she supposed to be? The Minister of Defense? The Minister of Education? A mayor? A district captain? A head of state? [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP.]] Of course, it is useful and necessary that the executive be subordinated to the Minister of the Interior. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You know what it's all about!]] With that, to honourable Member Dobnigg. I can tell you very openly that I have read this with the muzzler's paper. This muzzler's leash was almost hung up to one of the best officials in the fight against crime, which Lower Austria has. This is Mr Polzer. Mr Polzer is a man who is certainly not close to or belongs to my party. He's an excellent official. I asked him – and he also took over this office – to take over the overall coordination for crime prevention and crime control in Lower Austria. I fully trust this man, I support him. It is an immeasurable thing to put such things under him.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e21615	The next speaker was Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e21633	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The internal and external security of Austria is a constant challenge. We therefore need structural reforms in order to comply with this mandate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Austria is an asylum country. Dr. Zilk writes: Austria is “Asyl World Champion”. We're world ranking firsts. – This is quite positive, but it also raises problems that we have to address. The tomorrow edition of the “Kronen Zeitung” reads: “New drug waves threaten schools all over Austria”, “Youths are getting more and more often, getting used to cannabis,” “children are completely drunk and besieged in class.” It can be seen, therefore, that there are also problems in the area of drugs, also in the capital of Tyrol and in some district capitals. It is about recognizing the drug problems and giving answers to these... – These are not immigrants, but in your city specifically – I didn’t want to address this today in order not to spread populism here – there are problems, and we have to face this problem. [[Abg. Reheis: These are not immigrants!]] I'm allowed to quote a manager: ‘Chairman Juen makes it clear: ‘I am clearly opposed to a liberalisation of so-called soft drugs’, because this policy of liberalising drugs has actually failed. That's why we need new structures. [[Abg. Reheis:... do not connect with immigrants!]] - No, I don't connect with immigrants. There are, on the one hand, asylum seekers, on the other hand, it is drug use, which was created in one's own country. So it is about creating new structures in the future. Federal Minister Strasser has set the course here. In many areas, the structures are adapted, and police and gender reform is being implemented. [[Abg. Mandak: Are you also for the alcohol ban?]] There are also new orientations in other areas to improve or improve the problems of today's times. Security needs powerful and slim structures in Austria, best training of employees and modern methods, but also more flexibility. Federal Minister Strasser is trying to reduce the weaknesses in order to increase security for Austrian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e21702	The next speaker was Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e21721	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the National Council! A few comments on the long debate. Mrs. Partik-Pablé said that when she re-occupied the posts under the new Security Police Act, she assumed that only those people who have the appropriate qualifications and are the best. In this context, it has also listed the “red” officials prior to the term of office of Federal Minister Strasser. In fact, she claims that all those officials did not have this qualification. That's exactly what Mr Kapeller did in the same horn. I think this is a defamation of all those officials who have already been in service before Federal Minister Strasser. The wise will be back to the sharpest! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly, this statement by colleague Partik-Pablé sounds like a threat. At least I do not find this to be a source of confidence if one looks at dealing with people in the interior in recent years – even with regard to the guarantees that have already been given in the Ministry of the Interior. I would like to remind you of some guarantees here. First, German Chancellor Schüssel has guaranteed, police and Gendarmerie are certainly not brought together to form a uniform guard. Then Mr. Bundesminister Strasser said that before Gendarmerie and the police are put together, the Protestant Church and the Catholic Church are still together. And then State Secretary Finz said that the customs guard is certainly not included in the Ministry of the Interior. So you see, ladies and gentlemen, what can be thought of as guarantees from the government parties. Today, however, we have heard that Mr Kößl has made a broadcast that the Minister of the Interior will still be able to admit that he puts people of his trust in important positions. I think we'll certainly have a guarantee that the coloring will continue in the interior. Mr Kößl also accused us of hypocrisy in the debate. I'm just wondering – unfortunately he's not in the room now – how I can understand the article in the local press where he's pictured with a staff representative in the newspaper and says there will certainly be no change in the service right for gendarmen. Today he has also said that officials in the service and private sectors will have more money. – Is this another guarantee from the ÖVP? Or is this more related to the upcoming personnel representation elections? A few comments on the planning points and on crime in general. Mr Strasser, you have said today that there will be 150 new planning posts. I find this to be pleasing, and of course we are for that too. But, as you know, over the last few years, 3 000 plant sites have been mined, so these 150 plant sites are really just a drop on the hot stone. – By the way: I am looking forward to the five officials in my home town Amstetten. Minister! Furthermore, you have mentioned the “Sinking of the Crime Rate. ” But we all know – and we have been able to observe it – that the crime rate has really increased enormously in recent years, but, in contrast, the education rate has fallen. Therefore, Mr Minister, I can only hope that the fall in the crime rate you have spoken about today is not due to the fact that, according to newspaper reports, there should be a muzzler, according to which officials may only report more success reports. – If that is true, I think that would be immense. It would be extremely worrying by the rule of law and, to the most extent, undemocratic, Mr Minister. Finally, I would also like to thank all officials for their valuable work in the sense of security in Austria, which often have to work under difficult conditions and which do an excellent job – despite an interior minister, Strasser.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e21803	Next item is the report by Mr Dr Liechtenstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e21821	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It has already been said the essential thing to extend the budget, to increase staff and to modernise executives, therefore only a few general remarks. I believe that it is great that we are already the Top 1 in safety due to the measures put in place. That is why it is for us to continue: zero tolerance for criminals! We must see that we are working strongly in the European area in order to achieve that crime is not as cross-border as it is now. We need to get together much, much more in the pan-European area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have seen what the mayor of New York Giuliani could do in the Central Park in a very short time with the strengthening of the police. In Germany, it is state-owned, and there is the lowest crime in Bavaria. Minister Beckstein is responsible for the field of crime, and it is due to him that she is less there. Finally, I would just like to say: I congratulate you very much on this work! I would like to thank the staff of the Minister and the Minister and wish him a good success. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e21867	The next item is Mrs Hlavac's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e21885	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, a word on the situation of the security guard in Vienna. You too, Mr Federal Minister, have mentioned figures that clearly show that there are now fewer security guards on the street than in 1999 for example. In addition: The figures for 2004 clearly include those in training. That means that they are actually not available now. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Why we demand additional officials in Vienna, it is very easy to explain, Mrs Colleague: The sense of security has fallen, crime has increased. The mayor of Vienna, of course, also bears responsibility for the feeling of life, for the quality of life in Vienna, and therefore he also demands more officials. I think it is essential for him to have more officials. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, I would also like to make a brief comment on the intervention agencies. The intervention agencies – Mr Lunacek has already referred to this point – have been set up as a follow-up to the Violence Act, and I think that was a measure that really proved to be successful everywhere. As a Viennese, however, I also have to address the tense staff situation and the fact that last year you reduced the budget by 5 percent. If you now say, Minister, that you will make additional resources available to the intervention agencies, I am pleased. It is absolutely essential, because the law stands and falls, of course, with the accompanying measures. We have had very positive experiences, but if I remember that in 2003, 2 178 cases have been cared for in Vienna and the trend is rising, then I must say: It is obvious that there is no way of reaching out with the previous staff and with the previous facilities and possibilities. It is very gratifying that the police cooperate so well with the intervention agencies – by the way also with the women’s homes – that there is an increased awareness of this with the police, and I would like to thank the police very much for that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The fact is, however, that in 2004, due to the cuts that have yet to be made, in several districts of Vienna – including Ottakring, also in my home district of Döbling, in Floridsdorf, in the Danube town, in Liesing – the acquisition of new care cases could not be achieved. This is really very unfortunate because the work these women are doing at the intervention agencies is very important for the victims of violence. Federal Minister! I think we all have an interest in fighting violence in the family, and I therefore very much urge that the necessary resources be made available. At the end of the day, there are also a few rates for integration: I very much regret the fact that the Federal Government is concerned with “integration” primarily with the treatment of migrants under foreign law. This is a pity, and I think this is not a good development, because integration of migrants is a cross-sectional matter, and the OECD study also shows that in Austria we have relatively many, compared with relatively many, poorly qualified young migrants. The Wifo study also shows the same. I believe it is very important for the integration of our new fellow citizens that they have the opportunity and the opportunity to take a foothold on the labour market, that they have the opportunity and the opportunity to fully integrate into our society. This too is an important issue that we should address together.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e21961	The next item is the speech by Mr Sieber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e21980	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. High house! In the sense of my colleague Jochen, I now leave everything that is important aside and limit myself to the very important things. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We must be grateful to be allowed to live in a country where security is not an empty phrase. Austria is the safest country in the world thanks to the excellent work of our executive officials. This place must be kept, and with this budget Federal Minister Ernst Strasser sets the course to reach the stated goal. More than 162 million will be made available for the interior sector. This means that € 1.9 billion in 2005 will be available for security in this country. It is particularly important to me as a Member from Vorarlberg that the conservation of regional structures be taken into account. I am pleased to be able to say here that six Gendarmerie Posts have been rebuilt and 36 Gendarmerie Posts and 18 Border Control Stations have been re-established. I would like to thank the Minister for this investment in security in our country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Vorarlberg has always been very economical with the personnel resources, but thanks to motivated and well-equipped officials, we still have to show the highest education rate in Austria. In order to maintain this high level, it is important – and I also thank our Minister – that three training courses are currently being prepared for their service in Vorarlberg. A concern related to our EU external border seems to be a solution. It can't be that on the Swiss side the surveillance of small border crossings does not appear necessary, but on our side the officials must also serve at night, although we would urgently need these highly qualified people elsewhere. Here, with the approach in the Security Police Act to enable video surveillance at neural points, is a solution in view that comes our way in the planning of our operations and in the efficient use of our security forces. The challenges the international situation presents to us are not small, but this budget, our reforms and our Federal Minister Ernst Strasser give the right answers.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e22046	The next speaker is Mr Kainz. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e22067	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Security is an important and legitimate basic need for the population. I have listened very carefully to today's debate and I am disappointed by the fact that some of it is missing. If Mrs Pepper says that this police reform is about power and not about security – that is what she said! – then, as I mean, it is still in the time of the SPÖ Ministers of the Interior, one considers the statistics and the infarction of the red ministers. [[Abg. She's right!]] [[Abg. Then she's right!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We are living today in a time of rapid change. I believe that in the course of the police reform “team04”, which the Federal Minister suggests, it will create exactly the new security structures that we need in this country and which the population can rightly expect. There are new structures, efficient structures, structures where administration and bureaucracy are reduced, which also means that more officials are on the streets. I congratulate and am also happy, especially as mayor and as a representative of the Federal State of Lower Austria, that there will also be more officials on the street in the future and more officials will be serving. I also congratulate the Minister for the fact that an international study in Austria has given a very good witness. Two sentences – only very briefly – also on the issue of asylum. Especially as mayor of the neighbouring community of Traiskirchen, I thank Mr Leiss, but above all also the Minister of the Interior, because the Ministry of the Interior was ultimately the only place in partnership with the federal states that have made sure that we currently have just over 1,000 asylum seekers in Traiskirchen, which will improve security in the city, but also in the region. The planned measures at the Badnerbahn are heading in the right direction. Thank you, Minister, for taking special measures. Ladies and gentlemen! Voices To this budget for the good of Austria and a secure Austria too! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e22121	The next speaker with a speaking time of only more than one minute is you, Mr Colleague Pack, because the Federal Minister has spoken for 5 minutes longer than 20 minutes, and this is deducted from the speaking time of the Group. That's why you only have a minute's speaking time. Please, Mr Pack.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e22140	Mr President. Federal Minister! According to your motto: Good ideas are desired! I would like to introduce a project from my constituency shortly in this minute. In order to prevent prevention, the municipality of Gleisdorf, under Mayor Christoph Stark, have in cooperation: Gendarmerie and the Gleisdorf companies established a so-called SMS security service. It works like this: The companies can register via the city's homepage for this service. If a company makes a suspicious observation or has already become victims, for example, of a counterfeit, it immediately informs the Gendarmerie. The Gendarmerie can then send the text message to all the persons logged in via the homepage. The possible content could be, for example: Attention, false 50 €-shoes on the way! This service can greatly increase the number of attentionable persons, and the Gendarmerie saves time. This service is aimed precisely at such offences, whose number has increased substantially, especially in rural areas. This shows that we simply need more than just a financially and humanly well-equipped Ministry of the Interior. They are also asked for ready-to-use citizens and innovative mayors. - It's a beautiful evening.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e22172	No one's been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote on the advisory group IV of the 2005 Federal Proposal. This includes Chapter 11, Internals, the Federal Estimate in 650 of Supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. According to § 55 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the vote be taken on the motion for a resolution tabled at the time of the negotiation of the Advisory Group IV of the Federal Finance Act. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. We therefore come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Parnigoni, colleagues on 1 000 executive officials for the safety of Austrians. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This request does not reach the majority of the House. He is therefore rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00085_d7e22230	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 468/A to 472/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 2315/J to 2333/J were also raised. The agenda is exhausted. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Wednesday, 17. November 2004, 9 a.m., with the following agenda: Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (650 of the Supplements): Federal Finance Act 2005 and Investments (670 of the Supplements). For advice: Advisory Group VII: Social security, generations and consumer protection; Advisory Group XII: military affairs, Advisory Group XI: finance; and Text of the Federal Finance Act and establishment plan. There is no Question Time at this part-session. This meeting is closed.
