ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e1489	I'll open the 54. Meeting of the National Council on the basis of a sufficiently supported request pursuant to § 46 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure. The official protocols of the 50. Meeting of 25 March 1990 ==References====External links== Meeting of 26. In February 2004, the European Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies Dr. Drinkl, Dobnigg, Keck, Krainer, Lacner, Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn and Mag. Stoisits. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e1520	For today's meeting, the Federal Chancellor's Office on the resolution of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government has issued the following communication: Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Dr. Benita Ferrero-Waldner is represented by the Federal Minister for Health and Women Maria Rauch-Kallat. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e1547	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e1777	In accordance with § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure request that the written question submitted at the beginning of the sitting be raised in 1566/J by Dr Alfred Gusenbauer, colleagues to the Federal Minister for Defence concerning “The Eurofighter Debakel of the Federal Government – a blind flight at the expense of Austrian taxpayers” is urgent. The urgent request will be made at least three hours after its submission, i.e. at 3 p.m. Request for a brief debate on the reply to the request 1253/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e1807	I would also like to say that, according to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure, there is a desire to hold a brief debate on the reply 1253/AB to Question 1273/J by Mr Michaela Sburny, colleagues on “chaotic situation in the AWS and impact on the National Foundation for Research, Technology and Development” by the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour. Since this meeting called for urgent debate on a written question, this brief debate will follow. I am now interrupting the sitting and ask the ladies and gentlemen to find themselves here a little before 3 p.m. so that I can open the meeting at 14.59 a.m. with a minute's silence for the tragic incidents in Spain and for the memory of the late Cardinal Franz King. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e1851	I welcome the interrupted session and ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to rise from your seats. Griefing
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e1875	High house! The flags of our Republic have been on half mast since Thursday. A cruel terrorist attack killed 192 people in Madrid, and 1,200 are in the hospitals. Our work must be to combat terrorism on all sides. Our sympathy and participation must apply to the victims, their families and their families. I ask you for a brief sign of participation and silence. [[All in attendance spend some time in stupid mourning.]] Thank you. Our grief also applies to the death of a great Austrian, the Archbishop of Vienna, Cardinal Dr. Franz King. He was a man of reconciliation, a man of tolerance, a churchman who belongs to the spiritual fathers of our Republic after the Second World War, who has always promoted and operated reconciliation over all camps and all denominations, who the relationship of state, church and The parties have reorganised and have been in contact with the National Council over and over again. In the end, he was one of the fathers of the unanimously decided death accompaniment law. We owe him thanks, and I also ask you to remember his recent silence. [[All in attendance spend some time in stupid mourning.]] Thank you. Request for urgent procedure by Dr. Alfred Gusenbauer, colleagues at the Federal Minister for the Defence of the State concerning “The Eurofighter Debakel of the Federal Government – a blind flight at the expense of Austrian taxpayers” (1566/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e1935	We now come to the urgent debate on the written question 1566/J. As it has now reached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e2213	Before I give the floor to the applicant, I am aware that the following Rules of Procedure have been adopted in the Presidential Conference for the period from 15 to 17 o'clock, during which the meeting is to be held by the ORF: The applicant for the statement of reasons is as follows: 15 minutes, member of the government survey: 15 minutes; then the first two speakers of each political group will not speak more than 13 minutes, but not more than 10 minutes individually; then a further speech by a member of the government and, finally, one speech per group of 5 minutes. The speaking time until the end of the television broadcast is at least to be distributed evenly across all four political groups. Actual amendments to the Rules of Procedure or to the Rules of Procedure will not be invoked until after 5 p.m. I call Mr Gusenbauer to speak as the first questioner on the grounds of the question. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e2244	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, at the beginning of this meeting you rightly referred to the cruel attack of Madrid, to this terrorist attack of a scale which has never been so far in Europe. I am of the opinion that we cannot simply go uncommented to the agenda without regret and away from taking part, because if the attack on the World Trade Center in New York has already caused great distress and caused everyone to know how to put the fight against terrorism at the top of the agenda, this Madrid attack once again reminds us of this task. The question arises whether all the methods that have been applied since then have been correct, useful and sufficient, for if there is a message from Madrid, then it is the fact that there are obvious terrorist groups in the world who are able to practice terrorist attacks at any time at any time – with an unlimited extent. That is, our civilization, our world has become highly vulnerable and vulnerable. Now, if we let the last few years happen and say that the answer to the terrorist attack of New York was finally also the fight, the war in Iraq as one of the suspected leaders of international terrorism, was finally also the fight around Afghanistan, then I ask the question, my very much revered Ladies and gentlemen: In the end, did not these war conflicts make the world more insecure instead of safer? Is perhaps the previous strategy, by means of military means against suspected wire-drawers of terrorism internationally, a strategy that leads to the dead end, because it did not make the world safer at the end of the day, but made it more unsafe? Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Many people, not just me, have the impression that the new dangers will react with old answers and with old weapons. We need a rethinking in international politics and in international security policy so that we can face the real dangers of our time and not close our eyes. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In this context, of course, the security and defence policy of each country is also required. Austrian history in this context was not always glorious. We have often had examples of the acquisition of weapons systems in which the question was raised afterwards: Was that really the right decision at that time? . I refer, for example, to the fact that, if you meet military today, they are always complaining and saying that the German army has such high expenditures because we still have to cope with the misinvestment of the purchase of combat tanks that we really no longer need. I can remember exactly when the decision on the purchase of the battle tanks was taken. [[Abg. Scheibner: They have already decided!]] At the time, we have already pointed out that this type of armament is, in fact, a weapon of the past and not a weapon to deal with the future and present challenges. The same impression is given by discussing the acquisition of these fighter planes, the acquisition of Eurofighters: that a new equipment is purchased, which is more a response to the past challenges than to the future. In addition, this purchase of Eurofighters is the most expensive investment ever made in the history of our country. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Before making such a far-reaching decision that will bind so many financial resources in the future, it would be wise to think about it again and stop buying the interception hunters. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Among other things, the Court of Auditors has discussed this decision, and the Federal Minister has taken the Court of Auditors' report more or less persilicate for the decision taken by the Federal Government. If you take this Court of Auditors report seriously, you have to say that it raises a number of concerns and doubts by saying: There has been no comprehensible assessment criteria, there are doubts and doubts regarding the decision-making process, there are doubts and doubts as to the overall price stated in the Council of Ministers and there are doubts as to the performance and the assessment of counter-actions. The Court also points out that there are a number of uncertainties: the delivery date, the reliability of the technical components, the full operational capacity and, ultimately, the future capacity of these Eurofighters. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If you read the international newspapers, you will not be surprised by this criticism of the Court of Auditors. The “spiegel” this week points out that the pilot test of these Eurofighters will be postponed once again by half a year due to technical problems. The operators and producer states of these Eurofighters are gradually talking – once it is Italy, then Great Britain – and doubt whether it would be useful at all to continue this project because the costs are continuously exploded and the industry is unable to deliver the announced qualities. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In view of these serious concerns of an international nature and also of the Austrian Court of Auditors, there is a great danger that this purchase of Eurofighters is the biggest misinvestment in the history of our country and that a billion tomb is raised here of unprecedented scale. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It will be interesting to examine the last days before the decision on the types that will be applied and to find out what happened in the last seven days. I know that you are probably not ready for this investigation now, because most of the time those who have a bad conscience are not available for an orderly investigation. They obviously want to move this up to the Sankt-Nimmerleins day. But, ladies and gentlemen, the Austrian public is hardly as vigilant and attentive in any question as in the question of the capture decision. Over 600,000 people have signed a popular desire. Still, the vast majority of the population is opposed to buying the interceptors, and you will not escape a comprehensive investigation of this interception matter, whether it be today or only in two years. The truth about this question will also come to the table. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Some truths have come to the table relatively quickly. I should like to remind you that in the 2002 election debate the Federal Chancellor meant that the interception hunters will not cost the Austrians de facto, because they are bought by an economic platform. And about the huge counter-businesses there will be, this catch-up purchase will even be a business for Austria. This economic platform for financing the interception hunters has proved to be one of the biggest deception maneuvers in recent years. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Murauer: 200 per cent, Mr. Gusenbauer!]] There is no economic platform to pay for this. And whoever will pay in the end is clear: These are the Austrian taxpayers, the Austrian taxpayers, who have to pay not only the purchase price of the interceptors, but also the enormous maintenance costs that come to them. And by the way, a previously secret transitional issue is also to be paid, which costs €75 million, so that the transition from the current interceptors to the new fighter aircraft is possible. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Some grotesque elements can be addressed in this context. The fact that a temporary solution is now being rented for € 75 million, an archdaughter who was considered not suitable for Austrian airspace surveillance 20 years ago, is one thing, but that in this context all the promises you made were dissolved into air – you meant that the operator states will make it available to us and, of course, are interested in getting the Eurofighters earlier – should only be noticed on the verge of it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer]] The essential thing, however, is that the military sense of this Eurofighter purchase is to doubt. The military sense of meaning is to be doubted, because where we urgently need security, these Eurofighters do not offer security. But the second question, ladies and gentlemen, is: What priority do we have? In today’s “Small Newspaper”, Erwin Zankel deals with the reform policy of the Federal Government and writes: “Whoever wants to sell reforms must first raise awareness of the need for reform.” And at the end of the day, Zankel said: "We are soon to experience another example, if the government wants to sell us in Parliament, why we need to save everywhere except for the sintering Eurofighters, for whom even pitfalls can be rented before the luxury pilots can take off. There are no such sales geniuses.” I would say that Erwin Zankel is right, because, ladies and gentlemen, if you would point out in every discussion on the necessary additional expenditure for universities that there is no money for this if you would point out in every discussion about the health system that we have no money for it, if you would point out, in every discussion on the necessary measures to extend childcare facilities, that we have no money for it if you were to justify the pension reduction reform by reason that we have no money and can therefore only pay lower pensions compared to the past, and if you also say again and again in education policy, necessary and good measures cannot be made because no money is there for it, then you have to answer the crucial question: Why is there no money for all these necessary things that are at the heart of the Austrians, while more than € 2 billion is being made available for the purchase of synthetic fighter aircraft – and there are still no maintenance and maintenance costs? My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! You have remained guilty of this statement to the Austrian people to this day, because there is no good explanation for it. The Austrian population will know how to react.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e2355	In response to the question, the Federal Minister for the Defence of the State spoke. Speech time: 15 minutes. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e2373	Mr President. Estimated colleagues on the government bank! High house! For me as the Federal Minister for Defence, today's special meeting is not a premiere. For the second time, the opposition calls for a special meeting of the National Council on the subject of Eurofighter, and for five times I had to speak and answer in the Federal Council. I am very happy to do so and with conviction because I am a political leader in the security of Austria. The safety of the Austrians is important to me, for them I enter and with me the Austrian Federal Army on the ground, on water and in the air. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I'm standing here today with a very good feeling. Why? – First of all: The Court of Auditors confirms in its report that the provider of the Eurofighter was the best bidder. ==References====External links== On 12 July 2002, on a proposal from my predecessor Herbert Scheibner, And the Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, I can present you with a mature transitional solution from the embodiment of Dragon to the modern Eurofighter. Let me now comment on the Court of Auditors report: First: The provider of Eurofighter is, as mentioned above, best bidder. Secondly, There are no signs of any manipulations and gift acceptance during the procedure. Thirdly, The surcharge for the Eurofighter is absolutely correct. Fourth: The employees of my department have done an excellent job. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Fifth, you open a bottle In future, suggestions and criticisms of the Court of Auditors will be taken into account in procurement of the Ministry of Defence. I am known to be open to criticism and to include constructive things in my political thinking. How does the F-5 transitional solution look? I was particularly concerned about three requirements: firstly, the safety of pilots, secondly, complete airspace surveillance, and thirdly, that this solution is financially viable and responsible. With the F-5 of the Swiss Air Force all these points are fulfilled. Unlike the Dragon, our pilots with the F-5 have available a safe jet that is fully in use in more than 20 states. As early as the summer, F-5 aircraft will secure our airspace completely, and we will save whether you want to hear it or not, €35 million. The F-5 costs a total of € 75 million, including operating costs. With the maintenance contract and the operating costs, we should otherwise have spent € 110 million. The taxpayer must therefore pay €35 million less for this solution. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In a comment in the press, Christian Ortner writes the following – I quote –: “As one does not at the same time want to buy new interception hunters (...), no surveillance of our airspace by foreign military (...) – while at the same time preventing anyone in this airspace from doing any grosser displeasure, Josef Cap will certainly elongately present to us in the National Council on Tuesday...” Mr. Dr. Gusenbauer, you have tried, and once again you have failed to explain that you cannot explain that there is no alternative to airspace surveillance. I'm looking forward to what Klubobmann Cap will say. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] With your polemics and argumentation, you and the ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ risk the security of our Austrian population. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: That's not true at all!]] They and the SPÖ are putting the safety of the Austrian airspace at risk. They and the SPÖ irrationally expect the need for military defence against social security. I say a definite and unmistakable No to that. Not with me, ladies and gentlemen, Dr Gusenbauer! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] With the ÖVP, with the FPÖ in the Federal Government, not in the National Council, highly esteemed Mr. Dr. Gusenbauer. Ladies and gentlemen! Since last week we know: Terror is in Europe. His dramatic effects bring us painfully to the eyes of how vulnerable our society is. Our all regrets and sincere sorrows are to the victims of the attacks and their families. Terror scares and is cowardly. As the Federal Minister for Defence, I want to fear and give security. I, together with the Federal Chancellor, with the Minister of the Interior, and the Vice chancellor, are around the clock to minimise risks to Austria through comprehensive measures. But I also say in this context, like all military experts, that the greatest threat is from the air. So there is no alternative to active airspace monitoring. Whoever is for Austria is also in the air for the best possible safety. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would be interested if the tops of the SPÖ were really honest thoughts about this sensitive topic. I therefore say “honestly” because it is simply cheap to switch political little money on the back of airspace surveillance. I therefore say ‘honestly’, because voting must not mean the departure of the responsibility of a state-bearing party. In addition, I wonder – and it would interest me – whether the SPÖ has reflected on the organization of future major events in Austria. In Europe, yes, there have been since the 11th century. September 2001 no major event without complete airspace monitoring. The ÖVP and FPÖ guarantee the Austrian EU Presidency in 2006 with a yes to active airspace surveillance. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The ÖVP and FPÖ guarantee the football European Championship in 2008 in Switzerland and Austria with a yes for airspace monitoring. [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Mr Gusenbauer! Mr. Cap! Do you want to give up all this? – You demand a stop from buying the Eurofighters, you demand a stop from the transition solution with the F-5. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Right! Yes!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to write to you in the political root book: Not with me! I am the Federal Minister for Defence of the State for more and not for less security. I am the Federal Minister for State Defence for Security on the ground and in the air. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Question answer!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I come to the answer to the question immediately. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Time is it!]] For a reminder of Your obviously bad party-political memory I would like to remind you of the following: [[Abg. Arbitrators: Please answer the questions correctly!]] The SPÖ was in 1985, 1996 and 2000 for interceptors. I cordially invite you to stand still today to your confession of the time. Without airspace surveillance, it's all military nonsense. I'll get you together. Security has its price. [[Call the SPÖ: “their”!]] For this security, the Federal Government is acting under Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel. The Eurofighter contributes to our safety in the air and is, according to the Court of Auditors, the best bidder. For the phase of the From the Dragon to the Eurofighter, the F-5 will use the best possible variant, because the safety of the population, ladies and gentlemen, is infinitely important to me. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Now I come to the answer to the question. Question 1: Whether the producer nations have already decided to purchase Eurofighter aircraft from the second tranche or with what equipment and purchase price these aircraft are produced at, is a question of the procurement of foreign countries. This is not an issue of the execution of the Federal Ministry of State Defense and is not subject to parliamentary interpolation law. [[Abg. Oils: Weak!]] On question 2: Also, questions about media reports or whether operator nations are interested in drastic price reductions in the Eurofighter programme are not the subject of the execution of the Federal Ministry of State Defense. [[Abg. Oils: Oh you!]] However, regardless of that, I can report that the producer nations have issued high contributions to research and development of this product and therefore a comparison of the selling prices is not possible. [[Abg. Oils: Aha!]] Questions 3 to 8: With Eurofighter GmbH, the Republic of Austria has a legally valid contract under Austrian law, which binds both sides alike. An extremely favourable fixed price has been agreed in this respect. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] Of course, in addition to the general right of withdrawal under Austrian law, the contract also lays down parameters whose non-compliance can result in contractual penalties up to the unilateral withdrawal with subsequent purchase of cover. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: That was ironic, wasn't it?]] I would also point out that the procurement contract is the subject of a separate audit by the Court of Auditors, whose outcome should be expected. It was not tested because, from an Austrian point of view, there is no doubt about the performance of the product required in the tender. The producer nations took over and took over the Eurofighter and thus certified the serial maturity. These performance parameters are documented. The most important point, however, is that in the case of delivery take-off flights will be carried out by Austrian pilots, in which exactly whether the aircraft fulfils all contractually agreed performance characteristics in full. Questions 9 and 10: The recently agreed rental of twelve Type F-5 airspace surveillance aircraft from Swiss army stocks will ensure full airspace surveillance for the next few years. This transitional solution results in the best and cheapest solution for an all-inclusive price of € 75 million in conjunction with the earliest possible cessation of Dragon's flight operations. Of course, the announced aircraft will be flown by Austrian pilots and equipped with Austrian sovereign marks. To make this transitional solution a permanent solution is clear, especially since it can only ensure airspace surveillance in the medium term and does not offer a long-term perspective. On the other hand, the procurement of Eurofighters is a solution for the next 30 to 40 years. Finally, I should like to inform the applicants that the offer for the F-5 in 1985 has not been eliminated because of weaker performance, but because of the non-fulfillment of demands, such as fixed price, price indication in schilling and application of Austrian law. On the question 11: Such a Council of Ministers presentation is not known to the Federal Ministry of State Defense. ==References====External links== The Council of Ministers agreed on July 2002 preferred the Eurofighter. On the last question, on question 12: The recommendations of the Austrian Court of Auditors will be taken into account in the light of the possibilities offered by my department. The report of the German Federal Court of Auditors does not concern the Austrian procurement process, nor does it constitute the subject of the execution of the Federal Ministry of State Defense. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e2637	The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Cap. Speech time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e2655	Mr Minister, it is now only the question: Would you not like to answer some of our questions – or could you not answer some of these questions? We have not experienced such a sluggish answer to a urgent question here in the National Council for a long time! And I guess that says a lot. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's not nice what you say!]] If you, Minister Platter, are philosophyd here of a decrease in aircraft by the producer countries, I will allow you to be on the “level” of the 15th century. March, which states that there is a complaint from the German Ministry of Defense, which complains of delays and says that training pilots may start at the earliest end of the year, according to the Air Force Management assessment. [[Abg. Scheibner: Read “Salzburger Nachrichten”!]] [[Call the ÖVP:Germany!]] And literally: "The reason is technical problems. There were still no ‘tests of performance’ that were necessary for a flight operation...’. And then the crucial sentence follows as a rebuttal of what you have said here: “We will only take off the aircraft if it is useful for pilot training.” That is, Mr Minister, the Germans are not taking off the aircraft, Mr Minister! Don't tell us any fairy tales about the loss of aircraft, which are only phantom aircraft so far and in reality not yet exist! This is really the situation we are in. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mr. Minister, you must have passed without a trace last weekend. You have managed to give no clear answer to the question of anti-terrorism even in the “press hour” – I have read it carefully again – and even today as regards the issue of anti-terrorism, it is not really nonsense to pay €75 million for these F-5 scrap aircraft from Switzerland, just as it is nonsense to spend billions on these Eurofighter fighters now instead of using the money for internal security and anti-terrorism control, and not for an absurd airspace security that you are swimming here and which is not even reality in the concept of how you believe it is feasible. Minister, the threat is different! [[Call the ÖVP: This is embarrassing!]] It is embarrassing that the Minister does not give an answer. There were backpacks with ignitions and mobile phones, which were deposited in these suburban trains in Madrid. Now explain to me how you want to find out with 2 billion € expensive Eurofighters who, where and when backpacks with ignitions and explosives deposited in suburban trains! Therefore, you should rather use the money for internal security and not throw it out of the window! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] If you do not answer that – you as Minister of Defense, also the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Finance, the Chancellor – then you are the security threat and not anyone else who dares to criticize the aircraft and their expensive and absurd purchase here. By the way, You used to quote a comment from the press. We have long been looking for, I need 30 minutes to quote all the negative comments in the media about this procurement process, this blind flight, this blind purchase of the Eurofighters here. I suppose you've documented this in your Ministry of Defense anyway. You said a very interesting sentence in the press hour. In the “press hour” you said that in March 2002 the Ministry of Finance actually gave the requirement for the decision to buy the aircraft, namely in the form that the Ministry of Finance has claimed – and I dare say manipulative – for which the technically maybe similar – if you think about the basic equipment – aircraft types have been decided. You chose a form of financing, which ultimately led to these conclusions of the Court of Auditors at the time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Molterer.]] But: This financing strategy and the financing concept have collapsed, Mr. Klubobmann Molterer. Probably even the knowledge that one has known it was behind it, because you have changed individual must-destinations to target-destinations: the dates or the period in which the aircraft are to be delivered. It has already been assumed that the producer will have problems in making the aircraft. One has not even known how they will be fitted, what technique, what weaponry, what task, tranche 2, the bomber variant that will be. – What we need bombers for, I want to know! Airspace control by bombs! You need to explain this separately if you want to speak again. And you seem to have known that already. That is to say, not the Ministry of Defence seems to have given the result of buying the Eurofighter – you are only making the wall now, hanged / caught here now your fate, unless you free yourself – but the Ministry of Finance! And who is behind the Ministry of Finance? - The Federal Chancellor! And behind that: Economic interests. However: Where are the economic interests when I look at the famous “financialers from the economy” who wanted to buy the equipment for nothing, so that taxpayers don’t have to “burn” anything? – They don't exist, that was an election hat. And the Court of Auditors notes: The counter-businesses are sluggish. – Mr Schludrig, Minister of Economic Affairs! Where are your counter-business companies? Where is this profit for the Austrian economy? – This too has collapsed. What remains is nothing but a lobbying leader; I take on Stronach, any subcontracting companies, the Finance Minister, the Federal Chancellor and the Minister of Defence who has to play there. This is the result of this blind flight, this tax-money destruction, for which you are responsible and which we will undertake in the future even more frequently for a urgent request. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] If you look at life cycle costs – at €37.3 million in flu, €40.9 million in F-16, €71.5 million in the Eurofighter – you get anger as taxpayers when you see how money is destroyed. And that's not all. ==References====External links== ==References== On July 2003, from the date of the type decision to the purchase contract that we have requested, it is still coming. This will be the crucial test contract that we want to deal with and negotiate here in plenary. On the other hand, this is nothing that the Court of Auditors has so far revealed. This is your cynicism: There is € 30 million in single payment for pensioners from bad conscience and because country elections were made. But there are €75 million for these scrap aircraft from Switzerland, which were developed in 1954 – the first flight in 1959 – and were eliminated in competition with the Draken at that time, because they were simply not suitable for Austria. And now you start renting them! [[Abg. Murauer: That's not true!]] You know what? – If the famous big events you’re talking about are taking place, you’ll rent a plane again for seven days, rent a satellite channel, as described by the “Salzburger Nachrichten” – Alexander Purger, who’s sitting up there anyway, will surely still know – and then you’ve fulfilled all that you need for your big events! [[Abg. Scheibner:... 20 questions answer!]] But please don't tell us the shame, Austria needs billions of bombers and large-scale fighters, because they're nothing for airspace surveillance! You seem to want to be there next time in Baghdad or in other out-of-area operations. But you can fly there alone – without us. I'll tell you about that. The Austrian population will reject this policy as much as it has rejected the war plans of those governments in comparable other European countries – see Spain.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e2806	The next speaker is Mr Dr Fassleven. Speech time: 8 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e2825	Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The discussion that started today, initiated by party chairman Gusenbauer and now continued by the managing SP-Klubobmann Cap, is a discussion that could have taken place 20 or 25 years ago – not only could it have happened, but even happened, and I can tell you with what results. [[Call the ÖVP: Only in the SPÖ!]] According to “socialist correspondence”, the then Federal Chancellor said: [[Abg. May. Molterer: What did he say?]] “To discuss the interception hunters, I note that it is disrespectful and inappropriate, suddenly, when it costs something not to stand for armed neutrality. The state defense cannot end a meter above the ground.” – Quote. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Who said that? Who was that?]] That was Sinowatz. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If it allows time, I will read similar statements from Kreisky, Vranckky and also from climate. What we have experienced here today, namely that a party chairman here on the one hand, in the face of the terrorist attack in Spain at the moment of the commemorative and on the other hand, holds a plea to reduce security in Austria, is... [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] That on the one hand, after Klubobmann Cap, after the Court of Auditors had literally established that “there was no reference to the cost-benefit analysis established by the Federal Ministry of Defence of the State, the Eurofighter combat plane was true as a best bidder”, here speaks of a “phan aircraft” that was not yet available, and on the other hand, the Socialist Group has not perceived the invitation of the Federal Minister for Defence to go to Manching and to inform itself about it, because there you would have seen an Austrian pilot flying the plane; it has not only tested it, but it has also been enthusiastic and has spoken of a “super aircraft” that this aircraft has a super performance and is also easy to act – I think a Chuzpe. That is exactly what Sinowatz then called disrespectful and inappropriate. That's exactly what I'm saying: That is disrespectful, and that is indecent! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] What you want with it is clear! – You want to insure people, you want to scandalize, and you want to criminalize. [[Abg. Gaál: They spread fear!]] You won't succeed! The question: If we need a national defense, do we need airspace surveillance?, one can easily answer. I had the opportunity to get to know almost all the well-known experts in Europe personally, and I can only say one thing to you: There are no experts across Austria, no experts throughout Europe who would say that there is no room for airspace surveillance. There's no such thing! [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Mr. Cap!]] If you don't believe this, look at what other countries are doing! I am not talking about NATO countries now, but I am talking about neutral states, such as Switzerland or Sweden or Finland, of countries with a population similar to Austria. You know what's there? – Finland, a state with fewer inhabitants than Austria, has a total of 63 fighter planes. Switzerland has 138. The neutral Sweden has 329! However, we are dealing with 18 aircraft, which are recognised by the Court of Auditors as the best bidder and thus as the right one, but this is not only scandalised by you afterwards, but also criminalised by you trying to re-establish an investigation committee today, by re-institutions, after the Court of Auditors itself have established that the public prosecutor has put an end to all the ads that were anonymous – where they really came from – that the procedure should be finally concluded. Actually, you should be ashamed! Mr. President Gusenbauer, you are no longer Juso Chief, but you are chairman of a large party, which should also contribute to maintaining security, a party that should bear responsibility. But today you are born just as you were 20 or 25 years ago. This is going through with you like a red thread, I have to tell you, because your opinions have remained the same. The others have learned to do so, and because of their function they have also contributed a little to safety. But I have to miss this with you. My question is therefore: Is it really just white opportunism, or are there still remains of this old Marxist attitude? - You laugh! [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] I know that people at the time were surprised that one who is at home against the national defense goes to the armed Soviet Union and kisses the ground there. I know! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I do not want to put this before you, that is many years ago, but if I hear your comments today or today, as you argue, I have to ask myself what is behind it. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: This is an unworthy speech!]] Mr Gusenbauer, the security of our country should not be called into question by such an unworthy spectacle as you have commanded. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: No one is as deep as you are!]] You know, Mr Gusenbauer, I can only say one thing: This party has earned something else. Think of your predecessors, also of Vranitzky! Even Fischer said he'd become the interceptors. At least at that time he said it, even though he said he was against “hard” missiles. What the difference between “hard ” and“ soft ” missiles is, one can argue about it. But after all, He said that at the time. However, they have not been known to do so. We are not only willing to stand up for it even if it is perhaps not absolutely popular, because we believe it is necessary for safety, but we also do everything possible to get the greatest benefit from it. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: You can see that!]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: First of all the personal benefits!]] [[Abg. May. Worm: Cui bono?]] The Federal Minister has already said it: An Austrian Presidency in Europe is not at all possible, a World Championship or a European Championship or Olympic Winter Games, which is not possible without a corresponding cover. On the other hand, we have also ensured that the compensation transactions also benefit the economy with an equivalent value of over 50 billion schilling. They are making Austria bad, but we are trying to argue for security, to ensure security, and at the same time to bring economic innovation to Austria. That's the difference! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I can only tell you today: We will not let it go, not by your method of making bad, not by your method of scandalizing, because we all know from experience – the last events have shown it, but also past incidents in Europe, yes in Austria itself; think back to the OPEC robbery! –: It can go from day to day. Remember that the Greek government recently sought the help and support of another organization in order to be able to perform the Olympic Games! You can see that this is actually about something. I can tell you what it is about: the economic power of our country. It is about the economic power of a country dependent on living on tourism, of the international organizations in which tens of thousands of people are employed, but also on living what there is in the field of security in Austria. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign again.]] I'll be at the end of the sentence. Mr Gusenbauer, we could have saved this meeting! This...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e3047	Your speaking time, honourable Member, is over! That was the closing point! [[I should like to say a few words about this. Dr. Fassleven.]] Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e3077	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I announce the following: Deputies Dr. Cap, Mag. Kogler, colleagues and colleagues have, in accordance with § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested the setting up of an investigation committee on the procurement of fighter aircraft. The debate on this has not been called for. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on this request shall be taken after completion of the agenda. Mr Scheibner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Speech time: 8 minutes. Mr Commissioner, I give the floor to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e3110	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! SPÖ has called its urgent request “Blind flight at the expense of Austrian taxpayers”. With this title you can only give her the right, because what you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ – not only today, but for many weeks, for many months now – are performing here, this is really a blind flight, not only at the expense of taxpayers, but also at the expense of Austrian security. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! It is not a question of reviewing a procurement process, even the biggest procurement process in the history of the Second Republic, and it is not a question of seeking information, because you would have received enough information. There are non-numbered Court of Auditors reports, for example on the planning bases, now on the type decision, and there are a number of public prosecutors based on natural anonymous ads, but all the ads have been returned; and there are internal revisions. But you do not take note of all of this, ladies and gentlemen, of the SPÖ! Mr Cap has said that this is all uninteresting, namely the reports which are now and which are positive. It seems only always interesting those reports that are not yet available, because in them there is then anything you want. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] No, Mr Cap, this process is lupin-free! One of the largest procurement operations of the Second Republic has been carried out lupenrely. The Court of Auditors has clearly and clearly stated this. You should finally take note of this! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the urgent question and also in your debates you have said what you are talking about: playing out government expenditure to play out the interests of security against other tasks. They constantly undertake to bring in pensions here to offset expenditure on the education system in relation to safety expenditure. It doesn't matter any more that the annual amounts are always confused with ten years, et cetera, The main thing here is to make party polemics at the expense of Austrian security, ladies and gentlemen. We acknowledge that we are spending the necessary funds on the education system, but also on the social system and also on the safety of Austrians. That distinguishes us from you, and we are proud of this distinction! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr Cap, if you already ask questions, it would have been interesting to have questions answered by you. They mentioned the “Salzburger Nachrichten” – 20 questions to Josef Cap are addressed there. It clearly shows the whole contradiction of your security policy argument: for neutrality, for sovereignty, but against the protection of this sovereignty! You are now criticizing the rental variant of the interceptors, but in your urgent request you say that would actually be the better permanent solution. What are you for now? – Once you are against it at all, and in apologies that this is necessary, and then you say again that you have to think in alternatives: Perhaps Czechs, Hungarians or Germans will monitor the airspace of sovereign Austria in the future! Do you think the Austrians want that? Or is your concept still that of your predecessor, Mr Kostelka, who has said that we do not need aircraft that is rich in radar and steering weapons. That means: Look first, and then shoot immediately! – Is this the concept of Austrian social democracy? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] These were your concepts, the words of your top politicians! [[Abg. Dr. Cap shakes his head.]] – You're right to shake your head! Ladies and gentlemen! All of this is not to be taken seriously, and that is the problem that you have with your credibility in security policy too! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] They are against everything that constitutes military and security. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] He said it: The battle tanks were a misinvestment! The planes are a misinvestment! – Something else is always needed, ladies and gentlemen. I say to you, out of complete conviction: President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Haider!]] Everything is possible! Everywhere, even in Austria, attacks, security threats are possible at any time, and no one can foresee them. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: I'm saying, Haider!]] I'll tell you: I am also going to tell the politicians' artificial faces who, when something happens, try to explain that they have no responsibility for it because no precautions have been taken. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] I remember very well, Mr Cap, ladies and gentlemen, that I was laughed at when I took the floor for the acquisition of helicopters here. That was a few years before Galtür. After Galtür, no one laughed, but there we saw these affected faces that I spoke of earlier. Now I ask you: Who was responsible for the death of dozens of people because we didn't have this device? Who is responsible if we have an airspace injury and something happens in Austria? Where, then, are the responsible politicians, ladies and gentlemen? Then they're all gone, the headlines are different. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr Cap, there are no questions of opinion either. That's the difference: Policymakers have the responsibility to decide what is necessary, even if it is perhaps unpopular in the short term. You did that right – at least in other areas. We have certainly praised it on the issue of flood disaster, at the time when you decided to set up the Danube Island 30 years ago, against the will of the population. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Against the ÖVP!]] Against the will of some political forces, you have enforced this, because you felt it was necessary – even with the voices of the liberals. For 30 years nothing has happened. Once, this measure had to prove its meaning, and it has benefited. 30 years – once, and it was seen that this decision was good. It is also on this issue. Mr Cap, you have also said: What we always need these photographs, that's much too expensive. I'm showing you a photograph of an illegal flight over Austrian sovereign space: a notified machine and two unregistered combat aircraft that have flown across Austria in the radar shadow of this machine, at a time when we locked the airspace for preparatory operations in the Iraq war. [[The speaker shall keep such a person up to date]] [[Abg. May. Mainoni: That's how it looks!]] Unisono all demanded that. Now I tell you, ladies and gentlemen: We've been monitoring this, we've come up with airspace injuries, we've responded accordingly, and it's stopped. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the sense of Austrian airspace surveillance! That is why it is also necessary to purchase these aircraft. I can only tell you, ladies and gentlemen: All constitutional lawyers – that was what Mr Van der Bellen had to take note of, only then did he change his opinion; he said that if Heinz Mayer said it was necessary, he would rethink – and said – and also Heinz Mayer – that, as a sovereign country, one also needs airspace surveillance with aircraft. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: No, no!]] Constitutional legalist Theo Öhlinger is also of this opinion. That means: For a sovereign country, it is essential to safeguard sovereignty on land and in the air. – You know that, but for party-political reasons, you misuse the security interests of our country for your policy! I'll tell you: This does not pay off, because in the end the person who is responsible is still going through, and that is not you, but these are the coalition parties ÖVP and FPÖ!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e3277	Mr Magz (PPE). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, Mr Kogler. Desirable time: 7 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e3296	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! The subject is already appropriate, Mr Scheibner – who was once you were Minister of Defense; your role will still be addressed – to leave the church in the village. [[Abg. Booker: Stop!]] I can join your appeal, only one thing we do not want to let go: that the victims of the terrorist attacks are being instrumentalized here and taken for everything and everyone, which is now supposed to be the best security policy! One has nothing to do with the other, because no army of interceptors in the world can prevent certain terrorist attacks. Just take note of this! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It may not be a calming thing, I admit it, but don't tell people that 100% security is possible. [[Abg. Dr. Bösch: That's not what anyone says! Who said that?]] – But you do! It is more about questions of consideration: For what is the scarce money of the Republic of Austria – and we agree on that – even spent? Let's stay in the security area! Our opinion is that the threat images have long changed. Our opinion is that fighter planes, which are based on development scenarios of the Cold War and are in fact fighter bombardments, with Austrian airspace surveillance and, by the way, with avalanche protection, as you want us to know, but have nothing at all to do with it. [[Abg. Scheibner: You didn't understand anything at all – as always!]] Take yourself by the nose! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] To this end, you have to ask, and also in your logic – the time does not allow us to continue to address fundamental questions; others will do so, we will stick to your logic –: [[Abg. Scheibner: This will be very difficult for you!]] Mr Ex-Federal Minister, what is the process here? – The whole thing was and is a political decision. Stand by! Eurofighter is the most expensive solution. That is clearly confirmed by the Court of Auditors in an impressive way. And there are certain motives behind that. Eurofighter – slow! – is purchased against the needs of the Republic's security needs and, at least, against the interests of taxpayers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Muted]] This should even be an argument for those who believe that there needs to be a certain number of interceptors. I haven't heard a constitutional lawyer yet who said that exactly 24 and in the case of floods 18 interceptors are the right defence policy. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Friend: Want more?]] - Don't you stop with that bullshit! That's even below your level! Now, the question would be to find out whether the opposition has not been right with its allegations so far – at least as far as the present Rechnungshof report is concerned. I don't understand why you're breaking out of this work in Euphoria. And I also warn you, if you, as a Member of Parliament, are the institution of the Court of Auditors, an institution of Parliament, so deliberately, I think, I do not think, because you will still want to read and be able to misinterpret. It is true – and we will hear it today a hundred times – that the Court of Auditors has said that, rightly, among the criteria set by the Federal Ministry of Defence, it is right! – original – original! – the best bidder has been identified – in the meantime the Court of Auditors has changed its opinion on the basis of many inputs – and the best bidder has been identified as true. And now the difference should become clear to you. I will explain this to you by means of a simple example, if you want to follow me there: Eurofighter gets an Elfmeter on, Eurofighter runs on, Eurofighter moves the ball, it goes in front of itself – however, towards Cornerfahne. And see: The Ministry of Defense, which sets the criteria, manages to push the gate so long at the necessary speed until the ball collects! – And now the Court of Auditors – not quite wrong by the way – says: Among those of you firmly... – Yes, you were responsible at the time, and now you are already nervous. [[Abg. Scheibner: You have read the report completely wrong!]] – Under these criteria set by you you can speak of true. However, if you read through the Court of Auditors' report, you will see what the criteria were and how they were amended, and note that: This is annihilation for what you are responsible for as the leading authority of this call for tender – one attack after another. And now we will turn to these points – but only at a glance. The first is exactly this question of the time-change of criteria – a mortal sin in objective award procedures. In this case it happened regularly: Again and again, criteria have been subsequently changed. Now I am telling you - I am just taking one out - the most crucial criterion, that of the financing variant. ==References== A report will be submitted to the Evaluation Commission on June 2002. That was not a talk on the morning of this day – you know, you were doing – that this was the best bidder variant. [[Abg. Scheibner: Really?]] No – I can show you this once again to be comprehensible, in most variants Eurofighter was not best bidder, that is, along this long line here. [[The speaker referred to the Court of Auditors' report]] Only at the end – yes, only to recognize these lines – did Eurofighter come out as the best bidder because it was the Minister of Finance with his interventions – on the last day! – has maintained that a certain financing variant – not even all bidders were immediately informed – has been used. [[Abg. Scheibner: Can't read anyone anyway!]] And under this financing variant – although otherwise equivalent – this variant was then chosen. If you do not now come to a thought that allows the claim that on the last day things have been moved so far that what he wanted and not you wanted – you wanted the flu anyway; You wanted the flu, I have the document here, but it has not been submitted to the Court of Auditors, despite the fact that... – You constantly say that is wrong. [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] [[Abg. Scheibner: The wrong thing!]] – The Court of Auditors will be denied the opinion for months. Take a position on it sometime! But that is why a committee of inquiry is necessary, precisely that! You yourself have pleaded here for the flu a week before – this is your signature – because it was permissible to identify the flu as the best bidder. [[Abg. Scheibner: Ask how such a signature comes about! You're acting there with fakes!]] So I wonder, What's going on in the Republic? – The whole thing is, in fact, a political manipulation if you do not insist that it was a political decision. The claimed counter-businesses are dissolved in air, the counterpart – Mr. Federal Minister, please take a position on this! – is a single fiasco. Just read the Court of Auditors' report so that people can get a picture of themselves. There are no such counter-actions and not even in the form you claim to be. What remains: The opposition has predicted you several times, it was a misconception, it has come up with a suspicion of displacement. And I can tell you: Suspicion has hardened.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e3493	Now, Mr Bartenstein, Federal Minister, has spoken. His speaking time is 8 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e3511	Mr President. My precious colleagues on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr Kogler, ladies and gentlemen, from my point of view, and certainly from the point of view of those who have listened to you today, nothing has been hardened. But what has happened is the following: The number of statements you have made has not become smaller, but larger. You have taken this special meeting once again to formulate submissions. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Like Defence Minister Platter, of course, I have also read the Court of Auditors' report – not only on counter-business, but also on procurement as a whole. You said, honourable Member Kogler, that the government should not break out in euphoria. – We do not, but a lot of satisfaction is already there if the Court of Auditors confirms with its report – and this has been ignored all the time – that Eurofighter has been referred to by the Court of Auditors as the best bidder, so that we have reached the best solution for Austria – not the most expensive. You don't come around for this sensitivity. That is the analysis, that is the evaluation of the Court of Auditors, and this gives us a little satisfaction, because there is also a little right, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] None of us have claimed that 100% security is possible – not the Minister of Defence this afternoon, not the Chancellor this morning in his brief memory of the victims of terror in Spain – but we are doing the maximum possible to give the Austrians a maximum of security. There is the Eurofighter acquisition with a part of the whole – a part of the whole, of course not the whole. What you offer here is a rupture, an in-question job, a suspect, but has nothing to do with a security discussion around Austria and its population. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Klubobmann Cap asked the question: Where are the economic interests? – They’re with me, they’re uplifted and they’re best represented in Eurofighter procurement – you can rely on it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Who would have thought it possible to complete counter-businesses at a volume of 240 percent of the net purchase price, not just the double purchase price, but more than the double purchase price? – This is similar in the comparable procurement processes in this world. Who would have thought it possible that we would probably reach the agreed target of a billion € already in the first year, namely a start package that can be agreed with Eurofighter and EADS? – The status of today: At the billion we are not yet, there we shall be on the 22nd. August this year. But today we write the 16th. March and can book €802 million, honourable Mr Cap, and that is not bad. These are business and orders for our economy, these are jobs, and that is exactly what I want to achieve as Minister of Economic Affairs in terms of counter-businesses. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Although I cannot begin with your comment, Mr Cap, but it is not meant to be kind. Probably the following was not meant to be kind when you put Mr Stronach's person there in the room. – Mr Stronach and the Magna company – an excellent company! – secure far more than 10,000 jobs and provide an example of investment in this country. Magna has nothing to do with this counter-business sector! It is a company that has a clear nose in terms of counter-business. A owner of this company is not quite unknown to you. At any rate, the half-owner of FACC, an excellent company, Dr. Androsch, once played a non-essential role with you and, by the way, clearly advocated Eurofighter decision-making and Eurofighter procurement. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Come on!]] Looks like: It is good that an Austrian, an Austrian company has so far secured the lion's share of counter-businesses – truly the lion's share. There are, of course, also some medium-sized enterprises. It is good that also FACC, Fischer Aviation Components, has several dozen suppliers from the medium-sized sector – we pay particular attention to this. We pay particular attention to the structure of sustainable counter-businesses, provided that we have an influence on them. Science is intended to achieve research, and there is also a reasonable regional distribution. [[Unrest in the hall.]] So far, it doesn't work so bad, ladies and gentlemen. – I thought Mr President, I had spent my time, and I was full of bad conscience. [[President Dr. Khol: (gives the bell sign with the remark) That concerns the general volume level!]] But if I may address a few sentences to you within my due time. Technology worth of counter-businesses is also and has been a major topic for us. They like to quote newspapers. I quote "Le Monde". “Le Monde” long ago spoke of the Eurofighter decision as a decision that secures Austria a ticket in the European high technology club. And I'm saying it's a ticket that brings an equivalent of €4 billion. You said 50 billion schilling, dear Minister D. Fassleven. It's 4 billion euros. Very, very remarkable! And if Airbus is there when Daimler-Chrysler and other leading technology groups in Europe are involved, this is truly the partners with whom Austria's economy is supposed to make large, medium-sized, small counter-businesses, in the first year and in the following 15 years, ladies and gentlemen. As we are also talking about the Court of Auditors report, I should like to say that I feel that both of us, Federal Minister Platter and I, are talking about it more strongly than you are, probably because he has been more in favour of us than yours. But so it is with such reports. It is true that the Court of Auditors finds that it is not clear to what extent counter-measures are now involved in the type-decision. – Clearly, because the tendering conditions of the Federal Ministry of Defence, still under your leadership, Mr Herbert Scheibner, indicate that only where there are equivalent offers offered counter-actions are included in the best bidder investigation. That was not the case. It was not equivalent offers, but the type decision has been taken on the basis of military and similar considerations in favour of Eurofighter, and in the negotiations at the Federal Chancellor's Office in the run-up to the decisions, I have contributed to the fact that at least the two offers from Eurofighter, but also from SAAB, correspond to about the advertised terms in terms of counter-business, namely more than 200 percent compensation volume. Technological aspects are being fulfilled, and the ponale requirement has essentially been fulfilled, although not entirely, but also. We have negotiated a very good contract. But, Mr President, I am looking forward to that, if we no longer discuss part 1 of the Court of Auditors' report, as we do today, but probably in a few months on the Court of Auditors' report part 2 on the specific procurement after the type decision, because it is similar in the interest of security, but also in the interest of the taxpayers of that country. The comparison, ladies and gentlemen, makes us quite sure.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e3604	The next speaker is Mrs Bures. Speaking time 5 minutes. – Mrs Colleague, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e3622	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! Federal Minister Bartenstein, you have been running for a very long time now, as you plan to finance the catch-up purchase through counter-businesses. You have not said anything about the fact that your party leader and Chancellor Schüssel has still promised to deal with the financing through an economic platform. Federal Minister! I was on the Ministry of Economic Affairs' homepage today and have looked at the list of companies to deal with the counter-businesses. They're talking about counter-businesses worth 240 percent of the purchase price, which is about €5 billion. Mr Fassleven, you have just spoken of €50 billion. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Schilling!]] But it's €5 billion. In fact, on your homepage there are just €603.4 million. Even the list of companies that can be found on the homepage of your ministry is questioned by broad circles. I don't think there's anything to add to it. This is the best proof that there are no counter-actions for the financing of these sinterers. There are no counter-businesses, there are air operations in this context. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mr Federal Minister and my honourable colleagues Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, this is the accusation you have to make. And that's not why it's about you, Federal Minister, saying: I take note of the report with satisfaction, because it is not enough today for the Court of Auditors' report, but actually more respect for the Court of Auditors' criticism. I would like to see more respect for the people and the concerns of the population in this country by ÖVP and FPÖ. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But I think your disrespectful dealings with the population reflect the results of the elections in recent months. You lose confidence in the population, and rightly so, because you set wrong priorities in policy. It is the completely wrong priority if you have money on the one hand for completely unnecessary, sinterous interception hunters and on the other hand say we have no money for the older generation in this country, we cut the pensions; if you say we have no money for youth, and especially in the field of education limit the educational opportunities of young people; if you say you have no money for that we maintain a modern, just health system and go towards a two-class medicine. This is not a calculation, but simply a wrong set of priorities! People want safe pensions, youth wants educational opportunities, and we want a modern and fair health system and not a interception hunter who actually rejects everyone in this country, but certainly the majority of the population. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You knew that people don't like your policies and refuse the purchase of the interceptors. You fooled the public before the elections. You said we were moving, we don't need money from the budget. – After the election, it looked completely different. The FPÖ has composited large before the election, 16 arches: We're gonna stop buying the interception hunter! – After the election, make yourself up and say that you have always been for it. You have pasted: Against the purchase of the interception hunters. The EIA promised before the elections that this would not be financed from the budget. – And after the elections, we know that everything is quite different. There is no money for people important things, but there is no money for interceptors! Since these are the wrong priorities, as people are much more important to security in old age than the purchase of interception hunters, and since they are against your pension reduction policy, I invite everyone, starting on Monday, the 22. ==References== In March, to support the popular desire to sign against this pension injustice and to turn against the policy of this blue-black government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Summary: I think all those who have watched today have become clear that this catch-up purchase is the most expensive misinvestment of the Second Republic. The promised economic platform has been a deception maneuver. Mr Federal Minister, your announced counter-actions are exclusively air operations, which has also been noted in the Court of Auditors' report. I come to the conclusion: Because of this very wrong policy, you have no longer deserved the trust of the population.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e3686	The next speaker is Mr Murauer. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e3704	Ladies and gentlemen on the bench! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Cap, it is really adventurous what you have given of yourself. What did you call a Salzburg editor? - Hot airspace expert. – I want to join him. You, Mr Cap, were not at some events where you had the opportunity to visit the Eurofighter, discuss it, ask questions. No, your group has said, we do not need to, we know everything anyway, because we only have experts à la Cap. Mr Kogler, you come out and in an adventurous way quote the Court of Auditors' report wrong, with intent. I have to accept this, because you are a quite failed person, at least I appreciate you so much – so relatively failed people are. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] And I'll tell you: It is stated in the Court’s report that “no reference to manipulation... and gift acceptance” could be found. – Open page 13! Leave it with me! In addition, the Court of Auditors notes that – page 22! – “no influence on BMLV staff in order to prefer”. Ladies and gentlemen! In military terms, Mr. Cap, Mr. Kogler, a piper! Mrs Bures! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Today's special meeting also gives us the opportunity to make the difference. Unlike in the past, since February 2000, you have refused security policy in terms of airspace security, airspace control, airspace defence. In 1985, during the red-blue coalition, the SPÖ was for it. In 1996 and 1997, the concrete planning procedure for the Draken succession could also be decided again with the SPÖ votes. And still in the government agreement with the SPÖ of 2000 is literally: In order to ensure the Federal Government's willingness to operate, investments in airspace surveillance are necessary during this legislative period. But then you overwhelmed the left populism and you said: No, no, no, They say no, although the risks are more incalculable. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Posch.]] Even if you laugh now: The population will see you on the subject of security, that you are trying to estimate all risks and dangers, whatever the Federal Government is doing, laughing and just saying: Nothing happens to us anyway! Mr Gusenbauer also made the comparison that we could not prevent an accident such as in Spain, this terrorist attack on trains, anyway. You're right, Mr. Gusenbauer. But what if a disaster occurs from the air? Then what do we do? What do you say? Then put yourself to this speaker's desk and say: Yes, you didn't know anything about the government, did you not take any precautions? [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: What is he talking about?]] You're in the government, you'd blame us. Now sit here and say: I can't do anything about the trains with airplanes anyway, so we don't need any aircraft in Austria! [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: What was on the 11th. September?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] And then there are top politicians of your party, Mr Gusenbauer, who claim that neutrality has been maintained without monitoring the airspace. We will still have to talk about it, you will have to explain to the population that you claim neutrality is protecting itself and we do not need airspace control. [[Abg. May. Worm: You will have to explain it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'd take a lot of time if I could explain all this to you again. Unfortunately, don't accept that. I have the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e3819	The request made by Mr Murauer, Dr Bösch, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The whole application, including justification, has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e3905	The next speaker was Mr Bösch. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e3923	Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! We have once again seen a model example of contradiction in the previous debate. On the one hand, this came from the SPÖ, who on the one hand wants to be a party that upholds neutrality but on the other hand wants to refrain from protecting sovereignty. – Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! You need to explain to the population how you want to do this! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] On the other hand, we have the Green Peace Party, which requests from the National Security Council that the Republic of Austria finally secures its airspace when a crisis has erupted somewhere in the world. – Whether you want to do this with airspace surveillance aircraft or with other devices, the answer to that you, gentlemen, have remained guilty! Mr Kogler, in today's debate you have criticized the type selection. I would like to say quite frankly to you: Whether on this urgent request “Eurofighter” or “F-15” or “F-16” or “Gripe” or “Phantom” or “MiG” or whatever one type, you would have always organized this spectacle. They would have always tried to criminalise the Federal Government and its decision – just as you are now doing in this type selection. My colleague Scheibner mentioned that there was also the same situation in the purchase of the Black Hawk transport helicopters in about the same situation: They made fun of it, but it was just like Herbert Scheibner said. Even there, the opposition has criticised the government's buying an expensive device that nobody needs. And then, when the accident happened, one was glad to have access to it. Mr Kogler, you have clearly stated here that, of course, certain terrorist attacks cannot be prevented by airspace surveillance aircraft. – But certain terrorist attacks can be prevented. And I don't want to know what a scream you'd start from the opposition here if a terrorist attack occurred that could have been prevented with a functioning airspace surveillance. Ladies and gentlemen! Her cry would essentially be irrelevant to us that the Austrian population's accusations to the Federal Government would be more significant that it did not do its best to protect Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! In your urgent inquiry, you also encounter some mental errors. They write that the military necessity of fighter aircraft was controversial. I can tell you: The need for airspace surveillance aircraft to secure the airspace is not controversial, but that is necessary! [[Abg. Arbitrators: “Fightplanes ”!]] However, as long as you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, were in the government – we all remember – this was undisputed for you. Since you are in opposition, you have polemized against this possibility of securing the sovereignty of Austria in the air. The second misconception, my Ladies and gentlemen, the following is the case: They are talking here about the most expensive procurement that Austria is making in the Second Republic. I need to correct you again: The most expensive event for this Republic, ladies and gentlemen, was your 30-year government participation! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals and with representatives of the ÖVP.]] I can remind you that this government was therefore in a not very comfortable budgetary situation because the SPÖ had accumulated €167 billion in debt during the time of its government participation; because the SPÖ had incurred €10.4 million in debt for 30 years day after day. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! That was all your work! I also need to correct you regarding your statement in the urgent request that the Court of Auditors confirm your position. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! The opposite is the case! Mr Murauer has already mentioned this. The Court’s report clearly states that the best bidder’s Eurofighter fighter aircraft was that it had been ‘set up as the best bidder’. And the Court of Auditors also makes it clear that “no reference can be made at all to the manipulation of the evaluation results and to a related gift acceptance”. That means: Your precepts don't break into anything! And the Court of Auditors, ladies and gentlemen, has also noted that “in the process of offering and assessing the offer, no influence could be demonstrated on BMLV staff in order to prefer a particular fighter aircraft”. [[Abg. Gradwelt: That would be even more beautiful!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! They have also submitted an application for the establishment of a committee of inquiry. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] – We liberals are also for clarification and transparency, but we are not in favour of a political spectacle, which is why we will, of course, reject this request!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e4011	Mr Pilz. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. He's got six minutes of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e4039	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bösch has rightly stated that no one has yet been arrested on the basis of the Eurofighter proceedings. – That’s right: There are no court proceedings yet, there are no accused; the main investigations have not yet been started, but not because the facts for proceedings would not be sufficient, but because investigations have been prevented wherever possible – from the judicial system to the National Council here. [[Abg. Scheibner: What does “still” mean?]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: There is no more!]] [[Abg. Amon: That's incredible!]] Mr Bösch, if you think that this Federal Government, the Members of your coalition, would have nothing to hide, then make the sample of nails here in the National Council and vote [[Call the ÖVP: So it is!]] [[Abg. Amon: There is nothing to investigate!]] I would like to ask you once again to set up a committee of inquiry on this matter. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Unlike you, I trust justice!]] If this investigation does not do anything, I will personally apologise for this request, but I guarantee you that this will not be the case because it will not be necessary. [[Abg. Grandruck: You can do that right now!]] [[Abg. Großruck: Excuse yourself, and then we need...!]] Secondly, Minister of State for Defence Thankfully, after incredible difficulties around the so-called interim solution, Platter has provided us with an undisputable proof that the most affordable, almost scrapping, flightable interception hunters are absolutely enough to fulfill all that Austrian constitutional lawyers place in space as sovereign bidders. - It's enough for the F-5! Or, Mr. Defence Minister, would you say that although the airspace surveillance of the next three years can be done with cheap aircraft, for some reason – a reason that is neither known to you nor us – must the same performance be achieved with the world's most war bombs?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Murauer: You just won't understand, Mr. Pilz!]] Mr Federal Minister, please answer the question why something you have rented or bought, which is the cheapest – which is probably not necessary – must be replaced by the most expensive solution that this Republic and the military can only imagine! And that's where I get to the money. Federal Minister for State Defense and Mr. Federal Minister for Finance: I wonder how you want to finance all that you order, or how you imagine that your successors can finance it in the future. On the basis of the Court of Auditors' report and other documents, we now know the hidden costs of Eurofighter's purchase. It is not about €2 billion, which is covered by the budget of the Ministry of Finance, but about €4.7 billion, which is now irrevocable by the Court of Auditors' documents! - have been identified. [[Call the SPÖ: Right!]] What and how are these €2.7 billion financed? Do you want to ignore the Maastricht criteria? Do you want to say: From with the zero deficit!, we no longer adhere to the European directives – and we take up debt, and still, in order to be able to finance the Eurofighters!? - That won't happen! [[Call the SPÖ: Do it too!]] So you'll have to take the money from other areas of the budget. Are you saying, Minister of Finance, where this money will come from: from pensions, from the health budget, from the education budget, from the research budget? How do you want to take this money from? The money has to be there, there is at least €2.7 billion. Last point: We must remember to finance a reform process of Austrian defence, which I believe is very useful and very important. The minimum cost of this reform process – and any transition, any major reform is expensive at the beginning – is probably about €2 billion. That means: Additional interception costs plus costs of the German army reform – these are together almost €5 billion, which are not covered. We know: If we take seriously the reform of the federal army, which is very, very reasonable and important, then we will only be able to finance it if we abandon the Eurofighters. You, Minister of State for Defence, will have to make the decision: Eurofighter – or great reform of the Austrian federal army! Both of them don't exist! And if you stay with the Eurofighters, do not give up the federal army reform. But then it is also pointless to let the Federal Force Reform Commission continue to work – in the very constructive way so far. If there is no money, any proposal we make together with the reform officers in the Ministry of Defence will be simple and simply pointless. Last comment: I would ask all the ladies and gentlemen of the government parties – of course also the Minister of Defence – not to abuse the victims of the terrorist attacks in Spain for the procurement of airspace surveillance aircraft in Austria! [[Abg. Scheibner: But these were not we who did this!]] [[Abg. Ellmauer: That's what the cap said!]] None of those whom we have rightly expressed our sympathy and sympathy in the National Council today has deserved to have his situation, his victims, abused his/her personal situation for a dubious Austrian arms business! [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] [[Call the ÖVP and the Freeman:Readtime!]] I'm looking for you...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e4261	Mr President, your speaking time has already expired. [[In the case of the Greens and the SPÖ MPs, I should like to congratulate the speaker on his report. Dr. Pilz.]] The speaking time, which is now around 24 minutes, is 6 minutes to the four speakers, but I would ask them to be strictly observed. Mr Gaál is the next speaker. Speech time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e4292	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Col. Bösch, once again written in the main book because you have addressed the “Fulfilment Policy of Kreisky” Bruno Kreisky has joined in 1970 in order to make Austria Europe mature! [[Abg. May. Mainoni: That's right, too!]] And in these 30 years under SPÖ responsibility, Austria has become richer in many areas. We didn't play our money at the casino, but we created values. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: “Consumer”!]] Hospitals were built at that time, streets built, companies, businesses were established! We have created jobs from the SPÖ, and at that time in Austria there was the highest employment rate in Europe at all! [[Abg. Ellwall: “Consumer! ”]] At that time there was social peace around which the world envied us! However, you of ÖVP and FPÖ have been “successful” that there has been the highest unemployment rate in Austria since 1945 during your reign! [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We need not be ashamed of our policy! On the other hand, you from ÖVP and FPÖ have managed! They are endangering social peace in our country, ladies and gentlemen from the governmental parties! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. May. Mainoni: You still live in the seventies and eighties!]] Therefore our No to this procurement process! This our no to this Eurofighter buy, however, does not mean any No to the Austrian federal army, ladies and gentlemen, because this procurement puts the Austrian federal army in great trouble. [[Call the ÖVP:Yes – no – yes!]] There will be no more money available for other necessary procurements, but I will talk about that. [[Abg. Wheeler: Yes – no – yes!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] Mr. Federal Minister, no one in this House – and not at all we Social Democrats – understand anyone in this Federal Ministry, neither politicians nor officials, forbidden gift acceptance or personal enrichment. However, it is immense, Federal Minister, that anyone who shows the inconsistencies and the excessive costs of the sale of the interception hunters and clearly says that Austria cannot afford these sintering fighters, as if it were trying to put the safety of Austria and the population at risk. I am replying to you here by quoting Mr Grasser, the Minister for Finance, who said that this war equipment is non-controllable and non-financing. – Exceptionally, Grasser is right with what he said. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] There is no coherent financing concept for this day, because one simply does not know where to take the money from – and for the future there will be no more financial resources for necessary and urgent procurement, especially as regards the protection and security of the soldiers. Mr Scheibner, you have already had to do away with this! [[Abg. Scheibner: Everything decided!]] It was not possible, especially for our soldiers who are on the move in the service of peace, to acquire the necessary equipment! - And it's getting worse. Therefore our No to this your procurement! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Don't be sick!]] Mr. Federal Minister, you always say that you guarantee complete airspace monitoring with the F-5, with the tiger. – I don't think so, Minister of State! This is a spaceguard without military benefit, unsuitable for airspace surveillance. It has hardly a proper radar, no suitable computer systems, which has better distance meters and can only operate near the ground. So the example that Mr Scheibner mentioned, this air-reconnaissance is quite simply not possible with the F-5. He's not all-weatherable either, Mr. Federal Minister. And that's not populist, it's actually like this: A slightly stronger rain – and the F-5 must stay on the ground! That's complete airspace surveillance? - Certainly not! [[Abg. Murauer: Yes, like the Eurofighter! – Mr Gusenbauer, tell him! You know!]] The Court of Auditors confirms, on all essential points, the criticism of SPÖ: the tendering criteria, the procurement directives, must-be requirements have not been met or are briefly converted into target requirements, the aircraft must be in the army, must be ready for serial use, must be fully operational. – All of this does not apply to the Eurofighter, Minister of State. You are always talking about showing you or the delegation in Germany the Eurofighter. - Excuse me, but that was the tranche 1, which was a prototype that was an airplane from the pre-series that had nothing to do with the plane you ordered. [[Abg. May. Molterer: You weren't there!]] There's no such thing, Mr. Federal Minister! Manufacturers only decide in the coming weeks and months whether this tranche 2 should go into production. At the end of the year, it will be determined whether the pilot you have already signed and ordered will be produced, ladies and gentlemen. [[Call the ÖVP: You didn't see him at all!]] They set the wrong priorities, we have quite different priorities. We are based on a comprehensive security concept that goes far beyond the military sphere: It includes the safe workplace; the safe place of study, the safe pensions, the safe health care – and not what you are doing here, namely spending huge billions of money. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] These are debt into the future, therefore a no to that of your policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e4538	The next speaker is Mr Amon. Speech time: 6 minutes, but please keep it accurate!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e4566	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gaál, this speech must have hurt you very much, and it must have caused you pain, because I know that you are really thinking differently about the comprehensive national defence that you have done here today for the best. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] You, Mr Gaál, have not, by the way, honoured your party as an interlocutor. If you conjure up social peace, I have to say: I remember very well the government of FPÖ and ÖVP. There were social democrats, including those who are sitting here in the first row today, who led demonstrations against this federal government. In view of developments in Carinthia, where social democracy has now entered a coalition with the FPÖ, I am excited whether you will also be entering the south every Thursday for demonstrations. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Abg. Gradwelt:... Freedom of demonstration!]] Or – I don't know, Dr. Gusenbauer – are sanctions ordered somewhere, in view of which our Mrs. Foreign Minister will then have to go back and fight “like a lion” in order to remove sanctions against Austria? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I think it is a very, very fundamental issue today, namely the question of whether to confess to a comprehensive national defence including airspace surveillance or whether to do so. And I'm actually sorry that we can't have an objective, content-based debate here, but rather that with cheap polemics, with constant attempts to adapt honourable members of the government, we're trying to bring about criminalisations with such measures. Ladies and gentlemen! We reject this kind of policy in all its determination and in all its clarity! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is quite interesting that Mr Kogler, who is the chairman of the Committee on the Court of Auditors, had already stated in parliamentary questions in December 2001 that, on the basis of an opinion of the Institute of Industrial Sciences, the tendering criteria for the purchase of new airspace surveillance aircraft – by the way, these were parliamentary questions to the Minister of Economic Affairs, to the Minister of Finance, to the Minister of Defence – were such that only the SAAB flu can come out as a result. [[Abg. Murauer: The Kogler is so well-known!]] And what does the Court of Auditors say about these accusations? – The Court of Auditors notes that the supply collection and evaluation did not demonstrate any influence on officials of the Federal Ministry of State Defense for the purpose of favouring a particular fighter aircraft, ladies and gentlemen. That's the truth! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As it is always assumed here that it has been, so to speak, the financial part of the tender, which has ultimately made the decision for the Eurofighter: The Court of Auditors has looked at this very carefully. The Federal Ministry of State Defense has employed three simulation calculations to prove that the Eurofighter is the most affordable variant. The Court of Auditors has expected more than 40 simulations, and in each of these simulations, the Eurofighter and EEAS have come out as the best bidder. – That, ladies and gentlemen, is the truth! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Then again, this constant calculation of important social policy measures for us against national defence! I really think this is unscrupulous, because you know just as well as I do, the budget is a connected vessel: What I take out on one side I could put in on the other side. One can make it relatively simple and could say that the total volume of the acquisition of the new airspace surveillance aircraft would already be financed by the Bundesbahn by a year savings. The world is so simple – and yet it is not so simple! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] One last because you say that the 15 million we now need every year for the transitional solution for F-5 aircraft would be better lifted in pensions: We have a clear preference here. We spend 0.9 percent of the gross domestic product on national defence in Austria. We are thus in the final position of military expenditure within the European Union. So we think very carefully where to invest and where not. While we spend 15 million for the transitional solution each year, we spend an increase of €490 million to increase pensions in this country, ladies and gentlemen. That's the truth – and not your cheap polemic!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e4667	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. Speech time: 6 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e4685	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the left and the right! – I need to be careful: Now we have left and right colleagues – on the one hand at the federal level, on the other side at the country level. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] The subject of interception hunters is a subject that has been working on the National Council for a very long time. The discussion on this has been very emotional, it has been discussed extremely controversially. And it's true: This is a great procurement, it is a lot of money. 2 billion € are a lot of money, money with which you can make a lot different. I agree with the opposition. But, and that's, I think, important, we've been thinking very well about what we're doing with this money: With this money we contribute to the security of our families, we contribute to the security of our goods, and we also contribute to the security of Austria with this money! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The following should be put out of dispute – with all criticism –: It is clear that, if only one of these pilots rises from the ground and thus a human life, an object is protected in our country, has already paid off to make this investment! [[Abg. Scheibner: 30 times a year!]] It is also used a lot of money for other things, for example, over € 4.5 billion annually for the ÖBB. 4,5 billion €, ladies and gentlemen, are also a lot of money. There, too, one could discuss how to better use this money, how else, perhaps more reasonable, to deal with it. And this government is also discussing such issues of the use of financial means, but not in a polemic or populist way, because that distinguishes us from what I think is the quality of political discussion. We think very well about how to use money rationally, but without permanently collecting all Austrian NR delegates together at special meetings, perhaps talking about the costs that this entails. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It is no secret that the Carinthian Freedommen in particular have been very critical of this buying-in. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Clearly, such decisions are not easy to make; no question at all. You can believe me, ladies and gentlemen: As a younger Member of Parliament, I have been very hard on decisions over the last one and a half years, which I have been here in the National Council. It is also not always easy to take on and carry responsibility, but in the final effect it is a sign of political quality. However, political quality – and I do not agree with the opposition either – is not only a matter of being able to practice criticism, but also of putting criticism in place. I think that should be an important feature of politicians. Only: Permanent populism, permanent polemics, and permanent intrusion of any dirt campaign over government members is the wrong way. Mrs Bures has complained that we have no money for other things: You should look at the budget figures once, because then you would realize: We spend more money than ever for families, more money than ever for securing the various social interests in our country in order to create infrastructure, et cetera. This government works – and that's important. We guarantee pensions, we do a lot of things that will help our country to do well. Following on from what my colleague Bösch has already said: We from FPÖ and ÖVP have a big backpack to carry, namely a backpack of over 150 billion €! – I have now rounded off to make the bill easier. – This debt mountain had to be taken over by this government, and to make it a little easier to see what this sum means: With this money, we could buy thousands of interceptors! [[Abg. May. Mainoni: A madness!]] With this money, alone with the interest we pay for, we could buy 70 interceptors each year – without compensation transactions! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] With this money we could leave the ÖBB free of charge for 50 years; and such examples could be continued, so to speak, until the Sankt-Nimmerleins-Tag. Many, many considerations could be made about what one could do with this money, would not these schools be there; the SPÖ should already think about it. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This is, of course, something that is not easy for young delegates, but we boys also have to wear it. In the coming years and decades when we are going to rule, we will have to consider how we can further reduce this debt mountain, how we can continue to clean up our country and thus remain on the right track. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Posch.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: (in the direction of the speaker) The Posch, this is your partner!]] You don't need to scream like this, Mr Posch. You should face the truth! To sit here for decades, never to speak – and then to scream in between, that is, as I mean, too little! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] One word on this transitional arrangement, which the opposition considers to be so expensive: It must not be forgotten that this transitional arrangement, in order to show this once again, costs as much as the debt eradication, only the interest of three days to pay off those debts that the SPÖ has left us! That is what we are fighting the entire transitional arrangement, and I believe that people should know. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like the opposition to see a more constructive cooperation from its side. Mr Gaál has stood out here and has weathered and slandered about the catchers. – First, I tried to see how often you used to be in the government, Mr Gaál, when the SPÖ was in the government, but finally stopped looking, because this list was really endlessly long. – You have to choose a path from the SPÖ at some point. We of the Coalition Parties have this responsibility at least! Especially in the direction of the ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, I would like to say: Perhaps you should take an example of Carinthia, where head of state Dr. Jörg Haider – together with SPÖ – makes a constructive policy, where we liberals have for the first time managed to adopt a work programme on the broadest basis, where the ÖVP is also involved, and where you get the best out for the country without much polemics and without much theatre. [[Objection to the SPÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e4848	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger. Speech time: 6 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e4866	Ladies and gentlemen! I have always waited for new arguments with regard to the statements made by representatives of the two government parties – and I hope that at some point there will be a decent reason for this more than strange procurement policy. [[Abg. Scheibner: Your accusations were not new either!]] However, I must say: I waited for nothing! What I have heard so far have been some arguments – and these arguments have become thinner and thinner over the months, throughout this controversy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In order to address a few of your arguments, ladies and gentlemen, such as the fact that the interception hunters are indispensable in the fight against terrorism. – Whoever still dares to say this today, according to these terrible experiences that the US and Spain had to experience, deeply disregards the grief of the victims and does not at all respond to what terror and new threat images should also trigger in new fights! [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] If you are serious about the fight against terrorism: Consider what we could really do with these over €4 billion in meaningful and targeted measures to combat terrorism, things that we urgently needed to be able to really protect the people, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To another of your arguments: Take-off hunters for the protection of sporting events. – Has anyone of you from ÖVP and FPÖ – thank God some media have done this for you – already considered which segments of Austria would break out of the crown, and would such a purpose be used for international aid?- Oh, my God! [[Call the ÖVP and the Free:Galtür...!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: After bravo! What is this new story? What about neutrality, Mrs. Colleague?]] What was the “great shame ” when we had to seek help from the avalanche disaster of Galtür?- Oh, my God! [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: What about neutrality, Mrs. Lichtenberger?- Oh, my God!]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] Mr. Col., why are you yelling like this?- Oh, my God! That's terrible! Don't rain up like that, you're red in the face! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Where is the problem when you need to protect and secure sports events in a certain way?- Oh, my God! Finally, we will be entering a Europe of mutual assistance, ladies and gentlemen. Now on the subject of counter-businesses, and this is just one of my favorite issues, because you, by ÖVP and FPÖ, always bring this to you again and again – and this, despite the fact that the Court of Auditors' report on this matter has taken a truly destructive judgment. Are you even aware of that? I now quote from this Court of Auditors report, page 33, which reads as follows: “The RH complained about the superficial management of the BMWA, which did not allow for a coherent, meaningful and comprehensible overall rating through the BMWA.” Please note: We are not talking about € 100 000, but about € 4 billion, obviously only surfacely tested. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! If the opposition did not cry out, if the opposition did not make itself felt that something was going wrong, then we would have to look in Russia! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Another point, but I'm still staying a little bit at this €4.7 billion. [[Abg. Scheibner: Where did you get the 4.7?]] Here too, this Court of Auditors report is extremely informative, because at last we have the sums on the table, which is officially. At this €4.7 billion you can also see how unprofessionally You've done all this procurement! At all, nothing was thought of as operating costs when buying them later. Ladies and gentlemen, are you calling yourself a business party?- Oh, my God! You should be really ashamed of that and go in. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: And for such speeches!]] Once again on the procurement process, I would just like to draw your attention to one thing. Mr President, Khol always likes to quote the truth as “daughter of the time”. And in this procurement process and the subsequent interim solution, this is once again perfectly illustrated. With the need for an interim solution, confirm all the arguments of the opposition according to stroke and thread – be aware of this! – and reject all that you have explained to us for two years every day or at every parliamentary session where the issue was. Be aware of this: Here you have disproved yourself, more than clearly! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Finally, I must address Mr Amon, who has made it quite clear what this government is doing: Better cut down the Bundesbahn and buy catch hunters for it! – This is the style of the ÖVP, quite clearly and clearly! He said it himself. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] If so much goes wrong, ladies and gentlemen, then there must be something behind it, then that can be no coincidence or just a accumulation of inability! That's why: Please agree to the request for the setting up of a committee of inquiry!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e5044	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e5062	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! A few words, I hate to do so, to the alleged non-polemics of my colleague Scheuch. If this were to continue, we wouldn't have hospitals, then we wouldn't have universities, then we wouldn't have secondary schools, then we wouldn't have roads, then we would have a standard of living comparable to Ukraine. If this is your policy – it was until 1969! That's over, and I hope it never comes back in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Minister Platter, it is already interesting how you have now acted in response to this question of refusal of discussion – and not just now! Since you are in office – and this is already some time – there has also been no parliamentary discussion. So far, there have been three national defence committees: one meeting on the constitution, two meetings on such hot topics that we have to discuss on a regular basis. I very much hope that you will find yourself back in the parliamentary framework. Mr Federal Minister, it is already a little surprising that you are so strictly refusing to take a look over the borders here in the plenary session of this House. Why is that? Is it not, in fact, more a matter of execution, not more of Parliament's concern to see what is happening in our neighbouring countries, that you so strictly reject it? I think we are all powerful in reading, but I believe that “not comprehensible”, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, is not praise, but that is the criticism of the Court of Auditors, which unfortunately you ignore. And this criticism is more than right. „Blindflug“ has mentioned the discussion by Mr Scheibner. [[Abg. Scheibner: No, you yourselves!]] I bring you examples of the “Blind Flight”. Fassl evening: For safety, 36 interception aircraft are necessary. Second variant: 30 – absolutely necessary! Banner: 24 – we can't do it under 24! Then came the flood disaster – it was reduced to 18. Hopefully, the flood victims will soon be transferred the money we have saved ourselves by abandoning these six interception hunters. 18 are therefore absolutely necessary. Now we've reached twelve: With twelve, this is not a problem! Do you know what you're seeing? A beautiful arithmetic series: always minus six. The next step is six, and the next step is zero. I recommend you, dear government parties: Let us take the next step, and let us take the next step! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! On procurement procedures. The Federal Minister is no longer here. – Mr Bures said that in the early days it was 600 million, after the "Mitagsjournal" it was 800 million at once – now the wonderful reproduction, for weeks nothing. ==References== May reach the first goal, you need 2.6 million daily in compensation transactions. Ladies and gentlemen! Your policy is unbelievable. Your motion for a resolution is aimed at the past. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e5133	The motion for a resolution which has just been put forward is sufficiently supported, with negotiation and the vote. The next speaker is Mr Schöls. Speaking time is proposed at 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e5154	Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Dr. Gusenbauer is not in the hall at the moment, but I really say thank you, Dr. Gusenbauer and comrades, for this argumentative blind flight that you have delivered in today's debate on the security of our country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Dear comrades of the Social Democratic Party! Even if you are currently in an election campaign for the highest office in the state, your speech reports today were not word messages by responsible politicians, were not word messages by statesmen, but were simple and simple word messages from comrades who explained their position – “the location determines the position” – today stoned and clear. Mr Gaál is not in the hall right now. I can only wonder and am at the same time shaken at how far party discipline can go. Today we had to experience an interlocutor of the Social Democratic Party here, who has resigned from the defence responsibilities, unfortunately, who once said: [[Abg. Murauer: Unfortunately!]] If we are in favour of effective national defence and we are talking about an active neutrality policy, then action must also be taken. This also includes airspace monitoring. [[Abg. Murauer: Unfortunately long ago!]] That was the position of the government politician site. Today, from the opposition politician site, the position is: What do we need that for? Second evidence of Mr Gaál's slavery before the party discipline, which carried out: The SPÖ, which had become known for the Dragon purchase in 1985, is also known today as an expression of an applied neutrality policy to the need for airspace surveillance. There was no equivalent alternative to interceptors. I therefore advise that new airspace surveillance aircraft be purchased, which would then be used for 30 years. – All the original quotes of Toni Gaál. This was the position of the government politician site – today as an opposition politician is the position: What do we need all of this for? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry.]] If you, Mr. Kummerer, could have accepted the invitation to Manching, you would have had to note that all that is being tapped by false reports today and in the past months is simply not true. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry:... That's an absolute nonsense!]] I already had the impression – after what Toni Gaál has told us here – that there was only this one Eurofighter who was introduced to us in Manching. That's how he presented it. In this case, a rat of Eurofighters has already been in use, which has proved that it is flightable. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry.]] - Because I was with you, colleague Kummerer! I may as opposed to you! You weren't allowed to drive. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Again: Your socialist ideology is: The location determines the position. It would be tempting to say this now also with regard to the events of the past days and weeks in Carinthia. You have also mobilized the Thursday marchers against us, but here too the location determines the position. You are quite simply against every reason. You are opposed to any objectivity, while we are exercising government responsibility, but also state political responsibility, whether we are in government or in opposition. My dear friends of the social-democratic union movement, one more thing: We will remember this at the forthcoming Federal Staff Office elections, because here there are unanimous decisions by all trade union bodies and all the staff representative bodies over which you are going. You push those officers, suboffensives, who elect socialists, in front of the head, saying to them: We don't need efficient airspace monitoring! You question all that has been worked out in responsible deliberations by the trade union and the staff representation. On one side: Location determines position. If the majority in the... – I know it's wrong to get Mr. Kummerer to hold the mirror and the... [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Sad: You agreed!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e5261	Mr Schöls! In the meantime, the business time has also expired! Thank you. [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for the work he has done on this subject. School.]] Next speaker: Mr Wittauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e5293	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mr Cap, it's strange when you say security is nonsense. – What you said out there is nonsense! Security can never be nonsense! 30 years of socialist politics have proved it, especially in security policy! We don't want to talk about the debt. I hope Mr Scheuch will tell Jörg Haider that he does not give you the financial officer, otherwise you will continue to pursue the policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Safety risk. In my opinion, it is very important to tell the population that you are actually a security risk. They cause constant uncertainty among people! They say the untruth! You do not even take note of a Court of Auditors report! Her colleague Gusenbauer goes out here and speaks in the direction of our clubman of “Blindganger”. Gusenbauer is no longer there, because that's not how important it is to him. We all came from all over Austria to Vienna to attend this meeting. Next week we have a regular – there you could have brought in a urgent or anything else on this topic, whatever else you do. But there's the money for you. There's the money for you, we all have to come here and listen to the nonsense, these untruths you're immersing. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This costs the taxpayer – and I would like to tell you that at the gallery – a lot of money! We will certainly have to discuss this. And then you almost put us as a warrior and assume that we wish to be there in Baghdad. We have had a very clear line on this. This is “desirable to you! ” What you are doing right now. You really attract sad occasions to make politics. Because the Socialists won in Spain, do you think you could do the same?- Oh, my God! Do you really think people believe you're the nonsense you're feeling? We have always had a clear position in foreign policy. We appreciate neutrality as long as it exists, and we will also defend this neutrality! I would like to remind you, Mr Kummerer: We as opposition have always agreed – Tag Draken. Security never didn't matter to us. We've always gone a clear way. It is absolutely not right to put our ministers, our Herbert Scheibner and, of course, the Günther Platter, dishonesty, criminal behavior in front of them, as many incredible things have happened. I can only tell you one thing: There has never been anyone, neither in Tyrol nor in Vienna, nor in all Austria, who would have ever been subject to such a thing to Herbert Scheibner or the Günther Platter. You have always pursued honest policy! That was always appreciated! And now it's as if they didn't do something right, I think that's bad! I think it's really bad! And you should apologize to them because this is not a proper and good policy of yours. I would like to say something about the counter-businesses. MAGNA is always so negative, although many people of you are certainly working there. MAGNA has 11 000 people who are right, but there is an investigation into what each individual worker at MAGNA creates three more jobs in Austria. [[Abg. May. Kogler: They are not at all in the counter-businesses! You don't know each other!]] Mr Kogler, what did you say? You've spoken of "moving". The Court of Auditors' report would have hardened the accusation of the shift. . The Court of Auditors report says nothing but that the counter-actions and all that is related to the interceptors have been made sovereignly, properly and, I say, sovereignly. But just don't take note of that. That means you're using the Court of Auditors for your business. I would like to say something more, especially to the Social Democrats, when they say that we need an investigation committee. In the time of the opposition, more than 70 applications were submitted for the establishment of an investigation committee. – Rejected! 70 times rejected! Not a single one we got! When one often takes all the criminal activities in social democracy: AKH, “Lucona”, I can list them all: What a struggle that we have received the relevant investigations! And now I'm going here and playing the cleaners, I don't think that's all right. If you, also colleague Pilz, say: If wrong is done to you, I apologize, but that will not happen, for there has certainly been a misbehavior in any form!, then I find that wrong. That's bad policy, it's understatement policy! And I'm really asking you to be public: Apologise to our ministers, apologise to this government! – This one is doing good work! Take note of this!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e5383	The next speaker is Mr Neudeck. Time left: 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e5401	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I stayed a minute. Mr Kummerer can be said: Not Schools and Hospitals Had Missed – You only had to save yourself the AKH scandal, “Euroteam” and so on, instead of saving at the other end! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that in the “Salzburger Nachrichten” today there are 20 questions to Josef Cap, who is called the “hot airspace speaker” of SPÖ. Ladies and gentlemen! It's interesting, the special meeting is coming at a moment when Federal Minister Platter decided that one does not buy the Dragon scrap from Sweden, but that one takes Swiss material. Was the Socialist International your counselor that you now ask? – This is a government-to-government business, and you probably got out empty. This is because the Swedish social democrats at SPÖ in Vienna have made advertising for the grips. And in 1999 you were very willing to buy interception hunters. And there would be no UN meeting, no state visits,...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e5431	Please note the speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e5457	... and no football European Championships in Austria if we didn't have a interception hunter! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e5495	The next speaker is Mrs Lunacek. The clock is set to 4 minutes. The remaining total speaking time of the Greens is 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e5513	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I now have to change the levels of debate. I have looked at who took the floor in the government groups and have found: There wasn't a woman in there! Interestingly, none of the few ministers – but nevertheless – who have this government – were sitting on the government's bank on a matter of security. You, Mr Minister, have the word “security” I do not know how often in the mouth, and everyone else too. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] Security is something you also need to look at the budget. This is precisely why these F5 planes now cost €70 million, and the question is that of setting budgetary priorities: What is money spent for security? – It has already been mentioned: In the health field too little, too little in pensions, in the labour market, but also in areas which are particularly important for women. Violence against women, road safety are still issues where much more money would be needed in order to actually create security in order to ensure such a broad safety concept in fact budgetary terms. How can I interpret that none of the women of the government groups – neither Mrs. Brinek nor Mrs. Steibl, nor Mrs. Baumgartner-Gabitzer, nor Mrs. Hellerer, nor others sitting here – have come down and argued for these planes, for these fighter planes? [[Abg. May. Molterer: So many we have and more!]] Should I interpret this in such a way that they would have said no, but unfortunately they did not prevail in their political groups, because they have no majority in their political groups, and because the women on the government bank – even in this ÖVP/FPÖ government – do not have a majority? Now I do not believe that women are necessarily the more peaceful people, but because of the socialization of women, because of our social environment, I assume that women see security much wider and that they would never have agreed to a waste of money like these planes, such as those fighters, F5 and Eurofighters, if they had the majority! [[Detonatative condolences of the Abg. Neudeck]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I can't prove it, but the sample on the specimen would be worth it! I would be interested in how women behaved in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the Liberals in the meetings or how the ministers behaved. I know very well that the Foreign Minister would rather have more money for early warning systems – but not military, but social, democratic and similar – for conflict prevention, for the OSCE, for the UN, for development cooperation, for democratisation measures, for women's rights, for human rights. But unfortunately it does not enforce itself in the government, because this government needs the money for these fighter planes – and not for actual security measures. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] You know very well that in countries where there is stable democratic institutions and where the vast majority of people have a chance of living, there are precisely those conditions that escape terrorism from the ground – and not the Eurofighters, not the F5 fighters. At last accept this, and don't constantly spread sand to the people! [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens and on representatives of the SPÖ.]] I can only appeal to women in the ÖVP and FPÖ: Finally, make yourself strong within your own political groups, and prevent the waste of money that we are talking about today. Work to ensure that actual security policies are made in their true dimension – and not these mirror fights by fighters and the like, where security is precipitated to us, security against terrorist attacks, as they happened in Madrid a few days ago! This is mirror fighting, ladies and gentlemen! - That was my closing point.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e5603	The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Cap. Time left: 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e5621	High house! There is only one comment to be made, particularly on the speech by the two last speakers, who have confused Parliament a little with the 'heu market'. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's what you're saying!]] As you argue, of course your case is yours, but the parliamentary right of the opposition to convene special meetings is to slander – probably knowing that under Jörg Haider the special meetings took place here in the dozen – and to say that this was just a waste of money – so: [[Abg. Scheibner: What did you say then?]] Democracy is wasting money! – I would like to make my protest against those your statements which you gave of yourself here earlier! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] If you are sorry that you have failed to make 70 requests for the setting up of committee of inquiry, we can be happy to sit down and think about how to make this a minority right so that the opposition can be forced under certain rules that there are committees of inquiry here, as would be necessary for, for example, the Eurofighters and other areas. There you are cordially invited to participate instead of letting crocodile tears flow here!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e5675	The next speaker is Mr Kogler. Time left: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e5694	Mr President. Mein Ladies and gentlemen! Only for the successful work in the Court of Auditors, which must also deal with this report: Mr Amon! I've already explained it to you a few times: It is true that in our research years ago, we came to the conclusion that a provider, in terms of the opposite part of the tender – at least more than 40 pages – has managed, by means of papers from his home or in his immediate sphere of influence, to determine the tender by page, not somehow, but literally! I ask you all here: What is this state of affairs in a ministry where a potential and as good as safe provider can enforce it that a contract work from him comes into the tender page by page? This is an indication that things are not right there! Only: The script, which then played, was quite different. Of course, it was true that in the German army the forces were first focused on Sweden for many years and many things were done to get this bidder back, and that only in the months before the decision the leaf turned, out of a sphere of influence that is to be sought around the Minister of Finance. It would be worth setting up an investigative committee if individual providers could enforce it to dictate tenders! - That's right. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Finally, it is true that the report has to be classified where it comes from: He was an order of the Minister of Defence. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is really the worst! That's a terrible thing! Mr President. That's incredible!]] He's had a time limit. And, of course, there is no reference in a Court of Auditors report to immediate gift acceptance, because nobody is so unskillful – you do not believe that yourself! – to keep documents on gift acceptance in such a way that they can then be sent to the Court of Auditors in good time. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is huge! Take it back,...!]] [[Abg. Scheibner:... that you say the Court of Auditors is influential, the Court of Auditors report is a contract work!]] That's completely absurd! The next report is coming, and...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e5757	The speaking time is over! [[In the case of the Greens and the SPÖ MPs, I should like to congratulate the speaker on his report. May. Kogler.]] No one is reported in the word anymore. I therefore conclude the debate. We are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Murauer, Dr Bösch, on a clear commitment to effective and complete airspace monitoring as an expression of Austrian sovereignty. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution to give a sign. This motion for a resolution was adopted by a majority vote. (E 44.) We shall vote on the motion for a resolution (Doc. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – The request is rejected by majority vote. We have thus ended the debate and the vote on the urgent question. Short debate on the reply to the question 1253/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e5818	The next item is the brief debate on the reply to the question 1253/AB from the Federal Minister for Labour and Economic Affairs. The answer to the question has been distributed, so it does not have to be read. We are going into the debate; You all know the Rules of Procedure. I would ask Mrs Sburny to open the debate. Speech time: maximum 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e5848	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This consultation has a very up-to-date reason: It is about chaos in the Austrian Economic Service, which also affects the National Foundation for Research, which is currently underway. When I asked this question in December 2003, the situation was already dramatic, but I could not assume that it will develop in the way it looks like now, and so today is a good day for the discussion of this situation in the AWS. At the time, we actually put this question in particular in concern for the research foundation, but it turns out that the AWS itself is in such calamities that this is worth a more detailed discussion. When the AWS Act was adopted in 2002 to bring together the former Bürges Bank, the Finance Guarantee Society and the Innovation Agency, the Greens were not opposed in principle. I have looked at this once again, especially since I was not in Parliament at the time, and I think that what I thought at that time was that we could have found and found something positive in the combination of these funding institutions, because it is in principle a question of creating synergies there, which would, in principle, be safe between the various funding institutions. However, we are very far away from what was planned to achieve, namely a synergy effect, a 20 percent synergies potential. At present, costs are much higher than they used to be in separate societies. In addition, what is happening there is actually all very opaque. Within just under two years, the Austrian Economic Service now has the third managing director, four Supervisory Board members have returned their Supervisory Board mandate within two years – at the now almost only Austrian economic promotion institution. – That means you have to look more closely: What's going on there? In principle, the two managing directors of the AWS are appointed by the Federal Ministry of Finance and by the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour – that is defined in the law and obviously corresponds to the current colour theory that will help to break through here; that is, in principle, a FPÖ designation and an ÖVP designation. While the ÖVP, with Mr Takacs, has at the time called someone as managing director, who is still in office – even if he has only just gotten out of office last week – the FPÖ nominations, which come from the circle of friends of Minister Grasser and Thomas Prinzhorn, have been replaced very quickly. The first was Percival Pagta-Rayhofen, who was replaced already after half a year, actually with relatively unclear reasons. The next, his successor, was Franz Stierschneider, who had to go last week. Following him, I take from today's broadcast, Mr. Bednar, and we will see – it is planned that he will remain interim once until the end of the year – how long it will last there, because it seems that this is not only about the exchange of persons, but about structural problems. Four Supervisory Board members have also resigned in recent weeks or months. The last, I believed, was Mr. Stadler last week. There was, however, another announcement yesterday, namely Mr Kogler, who said: “What is happening there smells like heaven,” I believe, very aptly expressed, which many who have been involved in it have already in recent weeks and months, namely that in the AWS there is such a chaos, that there is no work there, and that a Supervisory Board member is hard to take on the responsibility it holds there, in fact. – Kogler also says that he was definitely misinformed or inadequately informed, and he believes that this was also the case with the owner – that is, that the owners BMWA and BMF were partly not informed correctly. The whole thing is an incredible Kuddelmuddel, on the one hand, from the stories of friends, which concern the management of the BMF, I would say, and on the other hand, but also a conglomerate of incompetence or – which was an accusation – double roles and incompatibilities. When I say that this friendly economy in the field of BMF nominations is from my point of view a fact – namely, Pachta-Rayhofen and Tauerschneider from the Freundeskreis, I now say, by Minister Grasser and Thomas Prinzhorn – I would like to look more closely at why Franz Tauerschneider had to go now! That is the other side from my point of view. Franz Stierschneider had to go because he claimed that there was an inconsistency with a Supervisory Board member between his activities as Supervisory Board and the business he is doing as a private person in his company. – It seems to me that what Franz Tauerschneider is saying here seems to me to be close and comprehensible, and I am not actually aware of why someone who shows such a thing is then removed and the subject is not dealt with at all. That means that there are obviously incompatibilities here. How to assess this, you can certainly discuss it, and I do not know whether the Supervisory Board member, about what happened here, is the only one where you can claim it. The fact is that, with Franz Tauerschneider, the conveyers of the bad news – under quotation marks – were “headed” as the proverb says, and not the one who actually made the nonsense, and that seems to be quite alarming, for what does that mean for the neighbor who comes? If Mr Bednar comes by the end of the year, as I have just read, how will he deal with such incompatibilities? Or will he be removed if he shows anything like this? As I said, this does not change the way these orders, both from Pachta-Rayhofen and from Tauerschneider, have come about, but I believe that here you simply have to see and look at both sides and look at each other structurally, where not only chaos and incompetence exist, but indeed a catastrophic development is taking place at the AWS, which was actually set up to guide Austrian economic promotion into good track. There is, however, a second block – in which one has to look at the extent to which this is dependent on the persons currently active or on those who have already left –: The AWS has not only failed in the personnel policy – the word "friendly economy" – but it is at least worth considering what happens by the way, so much at the expense of taxpayers. One is the rental and administration costs: The rental costs currently paid in the new building are more than twice as high as approved by the Supervisory Board! One must also imagine this: The Supervisory Board approves a certain rent, and the management simply does not adhere to it, but the rent now costs twice as much. The administrative costs are currently exploding, and it is the question of who is responsible for it or where one has to put in a structural change here. As for what we were concerned about, namely the Research Foundation, it is now being founded – and by law the two managing directors around which I have just described the whole of Tohuwabohu, the board of directors of the Research Foundation! So you can imagine what will happen in the next few days when the Research Foundation is founded and these managing directors are being used as the Board of Directors of the Research Foundation, which will reorganise research funding for the whole of Austria and on the occasion of which the government in Lohudelia will discuss it, which will now improve everything in the research landscape and research funding. [[Abg. Oils: Chaos to square!]] Our demands are as follows: From my point of view, what goes wrong in this AWS has to be looked at first. That's not just a person exchange. This will simply not be enough to end these catastrophic developments and up-to-date processes and to provide a positive solution. Secondly, we have said from the beginning: Please do not make these two funding giants worse or derail the economic support again from research funding, otherwise you will have the same catastrophic balance as the AWS in the research funding and, secondly, you will move the entire research funding into a so-called economy. There are, in fact, other issues to be dealt with in the field of basic research!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e5887	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The speaking time is also limited to 10 minutes. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e5905	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House – especially honourable Mrs Sburny! I too am anything but happy about the processes in the AWS, especially in the last days and weeks. I say that very clearly, but at the same time it is important that we keep things within the framework of this critical phase, that the child does not pour out with the bath and ask where there are open questions, where obvious errors have happened and which part is in order. From my point of view, you have shot clearly over the target, because you are talking about chaos and incompetence. In any event, I would like to introduce the fact that the AWS was fully operational at any time and that not only I, but also experts and promoters of the economy say that the AWS is in principle a progress and in principle works well. [[Abg. Oils: Could be! Shouldn't you?]] This should not be a distraction from the fact that there have been staff problems – I hope and expect – in the case of two managing directors, who are now no longer members of the management of the AWS. With Dr. Bednar, a real funding pro and a true expert, who has been re-estimated, has been appointed, who has taken over interim co-management with Mr Takacs and will make his contribution to bringing this as an important support structure with Mr Takacs and with the employees of the AWS into calm water. Let me summarize: What was at the beginning of our – the Minister of Finance and my – reflections on the structure of the AWS? – An ambitious project that we created in 2002 from the BÜRGES, the FGG, the Innovation Agency and the ERP a federal funding structure, including because, for example, both practitioners and the Court of Auditors in 1997, for example, the reduction in the number of support actions which they have requested to grant, including because the practitioners said there was a funding jungle in Austria. You shouldn't hold it that way. At any rate, at federal level, we have made a successful attempt, as I believe, to remedy this abuse with the AWS. I can see that the Council on Research, Technology and Development has also pointed out that the former old system is unclear and low-bourgeois. I should also like to refer, in particular, to the request of young entrepreneurs to a central information and advice centre. I think that the objective and the intention are incontrovertible. – You have also made it clear that you can be able to do so. AWS, however, does not just mean promotion, but AWS stands for “Austria Wirtschaftsdienst. ” We want to improve the service character of this structure and implement the “One Stop Shop” principle, and this has succeeded in part. What are the benefits of the AWS? – The promoter no longer needs to know exactly what he wants in advance, whether it be a loan, whether it be a grant or a guarantee, but he comes with his project, with his idea of the AWS and will be informed about the help that would be best suited for his project, for his company. – With this, the “One Stop Shop” principle is actually implemented and realized! But, of course, this merger process – which brought together four grown structures – has raised certain problems. Business cultures and identities are not to be brought together from today to tomorrow, and probably the human problems I have already mentioned have also been involved in this in the form of two managing directors. But let me say again: the AWS's ability to act is and was given at any time. The financial resources are absolutely sufficient, and the guarantee frameworks that are often questioned in the public are also large enough under the terms of a liability volume of € 3 billion. Of this €3 billion volume of liability, dear Mrs Sburny, €1.4 billion is exhausted. Even if you split these individual liability frameworks apart, it is not that one would have been completely exhausted. I assume that the Minister of Finance will make proposals over the next few weeks as to how to act even better with greater flexibility within these individual liability frameworks in the future than in the past. I do not want to go into the question of human resources in detail now, which prohibits the Court of Justice and also some others. The names are known, but let me say that, on the recommendation of the Supervisory Board Chairman Professor Kofler Owner of Finance Minister Grasser, in agreement with me, has given the green light to the resolution of the service relationship with one of the two AWS managing directors and that the appointment of Dr. Bednar as interim director – I think – can and will bring the hoped-for peace to the company. A few more sentences to Dr. Bednar. For many years and decades, he has been a top official of the economic resort and is a profound expert on the Austrian funding scene. It has enormous experience with the operational promotion of the labour market and with the development of large support projects. Since 2002 he has been managing director of the insolvency compensation fund Service GesmbH. It will reduce this activity to a minimum in the coming months, i.e. to a control activity, and will be deprived of its official activity for the planned interim management period. We plan to start the procurement procedure provided for by law for the new appointed managing director on time – that is, within one month and expect the final appointment of the management to be made on 1 January. January 2005. As far as the separate Supervisory Boards are concerned, too, Finance Ministers Grasser and I will act and re-occupy the missing and unoccupied supervisory positions during the month of April. With regard to the argument you put forward, it is not good to let the Managing Directors of the AWS be at the same time Managing Directors and therefore the Board of Foundations of the National Foundation for Research, Technology and Development, I feel different from you. – I think this is a reasonable synergy, especially since the board of directors of the Foundation do nothing but implement the recommendations of the Council of the Foundation – there, in a sense, the music – in fact. Moreover, there will be no more economic support in Austria – not today, not tomorrow, but in the long term – that does not have a high research and technology content. [[Abg. Sburny: There will be no more research!]] In order to be able to set a course early on, we have provided this identity of the board of directors and AWS management. Ladies and gentlemen, I also ask you to leave the church in the village again. The situation is not satisfactory. It is not good if, within a relatively short time, a management is to be re-occupied twice. – I know that, but the AWS structure as such is a good, healthy one. The power of action and the possibility of action for the AWS were given at any time and will also be given in the future. The financial resources are sufficient. In this way, the support structure for Austria's economy works, and if it is now back in the management, it is good for the AWS, but also good for our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e6000	Mr Mitterlehner is next speaker. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e6018	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! From the point of view of the economy, the establishment of the AWS was a very reasonable measure. – This has already been addressed by my previous speakers. The funding landscape was previously relatively fragmented, and for the customer it was very difficult to gain the right access and an overview. The merger of BÜRGES, FGG, Innovation Agency and ERP was a reasonable measure and construction because it not only helped the customer gain a better overview but also helped him to decide on credit, grant or guarantee – which was just necessary in a technical way. The fact is that each merger obviously also poses “cultural” problems – between the respective corporate cultures. This has certainly been the case at the human level in the form of difficulties between the Supervisory Board and the Management Board. Mrs Sburny, the alleged inconsistency you have referred to, has taken the opportunity of a Supervisory Board to relinquish its mandate, but not as an admission to inconsistency, but because he did not want any discussion at all. [[Abg. Oil: Well, well!]] There are a total of 18 supervisory councils there, and I would say that was a dispute between a few. We hope that the problems are addressed at the human level and are now also corrected, and assume that the interim appointment of Dr. Bednar is also a good condition in the personal field by the end of the year. [[Abg. Oils: What?]] [[Abg. Oils: Interim!]] However, we also assume that the position of the management will be advertised accordingly and that the best that occurs there will also be selected. [[Abg. Oils: It was like that twice!]] There are also such problems in companies, such as that selection decisions can become problematic when it comes to practical implementation. [[Abg. Oellinger: Mr Mitterlehner! You know better!]] I have thus reached the second point, which is crucial from the point of view of the customer: Has the problem of staffing reduced the quality of service? – Service quality has not dropped. [[Abg. Sburny: Sure! The employees are complete...!]] It does not correspond to the fact that there has been a financial dehydration. In the media 300 million were in conversation. - That's not true. [[Abg. Sburny: We'll see!]] The Minister has already referred to it: There are corresponding coatings, the frame is not exhausted. This means that everything is available financially as far as the possibility of guarantee and the possibility of funding is concerned. The speed of completion has now also increased. I would say that to what you have mentioned in relation to administrative costs. [[Abg. Sburny: Rental costs!]] That's information as they were in the newspapers. [[Abg. Sburny: Then tell me how high the rent is!]] That is why I would wait until a test report is available, then there is a corresponding level of discussion. [[Abg. Oils: Who's testing?]] But I do not think it is right to try to beat political change out of the matter at this stage. That wouldn't be a good thing. In conclusion from our point of view – from the point of view of the ÖVP –: In the final effect, all difficulties can be focused on human problems in the current phase, and they do not allow any conclusion to organisational difficulties or even to a misconstruction of the AWS. [[Abg. Oillinger: Party political problems!]] – This is a very important observation. Secondly, The organisational responsibility of the Supervisory Board and the Owner is fully exercised. There is absolutely no indication that any non-reactions or other errors have occurred here. [[Abg. Sburny: Oh, yes! Is there already! Kogler says we were not informed!]] Thirdly, In the service area, all actions are carried out accordingly. There's no impairment. Fourth – and I am now at the end of this interim order – is the best prerequisite for exploiting synergies and efficiency-enhancing potentials, improving and optimizing them and thus ensuring a good future for the AWS. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e6203	The next speaker is Mr Moser. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e6221	Mr President. High house! Minister! I think the AWS is not about being happy, but you are carrying political responsibility for this disaster in the AWS, and they have you to take over: You and Federal Minister Grasser! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] We already discussed a debacle today. That's the second thing we're going to do now, and the AWS is a debacle! It shows in a typical way how this black and blue government can lead an objectively reasonable project to the disaster. – This comes out quite clearly. It was suggested that the AWS represents the merger of these different funding stations. We have also supported this in order to make business promotion more efficient. – That was the approach. It also always falls the magic word that synergies should be released and costs reduced. These are the keywords you use if you want something. However, it is a further way to implement it, and you have not yet succeeded. - You have to find out. Ladies and gentlemen! We must also note that there is an incredible Tohuwabohu. What happened? – It has been suggested: If two managing directors have been exchanged within two years – you have to think about it, no private person could afford it! – a work process with a total of €650 000 is to be deposition, another managing director has recently been released, who is going to walk, from which one does not know what he costs – obviously you released him without notice because you have a shareholder decision here – then this is actually no longer a failure of the authorities, but a failure of the owner – a classic failure! You have to ask yourself what competence this government, that owner's representative has! In addition, ‘roll commands’, an external auditor company was commissioned to investigate disks in order to find internal ambiguities. They have come in the absence of officials and promoters, have disassembled the hard drives and watched what is stored on them. That's what it was. then the basis. What happens is also a data protection problem, ladies and gentlemen! If truly renowned supervisory councils – industrial and bankers – leave this ship in close proximity, then the hat burns there. I just want to mention the names: After Krainz – MAN Managing Director – Zimmermann – Berndorf – and Stadler – Investment Credit – Kogler – Funder has now announced his mandate. Do you know why they're all going? – They told me: This is a continuing political office, and they are being pushed by important decisions as regards human resources. These renowned supervisory councils cannot, of course, be abused for such things. That is actually the essential reason why these people have been expelled from responsibility. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The rental costs have already been indicated, as have the liquidity crisis. These are all questions that are important to stabilise the Austrian funding landscape again, but you have not succeeded. - You can't. The AWS is very deep, and for this, Mr Minister, you and your colleague Grasser are responsible. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] They show, on the basis of this society, that: You want to prove the principle that the state is a bad owner. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! They say that the state is a bad owner, and the whole is at the expense of the Austrian taxpayers and the Austrian economy. They use it as “self-fulfilling prophecy”. They ultimately bear the responsibility – in addition to the ÖIAG as a debacle of concealment, in addition to the weaknesses of settlement that you have there, in addition to the debacle of compensation – for this question of the AWS. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This government has long given the spoon to economic policy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e6304	Mrs Bleckmann. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e6322	Mr President. Minister! High house! Austria Wirtschaftsservice GmbH was created from four sub-sectors. It is not a completely unimportant GmbH, because it manages funding funds of 3,5 billion €. With regard to liabilities, grants and loans, these funds are then distributed. In other words, the AWS has three instruments for funding and financing major projects: Domestic guarantees, foreign guarantees and capital guarantees. AWS has 100 million grants available for funding from small and medium-sized enterprises and 750 million € in liability opportunities. The ERP fund, which is a large part of the AWS, also brings much of the money into the National Foundation. So there is a connection with the National Foundation, and, of course, for reasons of rationality, the forces must be bundled. From 2004 onwards, €50 million will be granted from ERP's interest income as grants for the research foundation, which is not a significant contribution. This is the first time that we have been able to find a solution to this problem. This means that the government in the field of research increases funding – from 2003 to 2006 it is 21 percent – and also increases planning security for research. But the 400 million for the ERP fund remains and thus remains in society as well. The objectives of this reform, of which we have already heard a lot, were the summary of the relevant institutions and the implementation of the so-called objective, the one-stop shop, which has already been partially successful, the reduction of double-tracks and the modernisation of the entire support system. Even if individuals now say that they are not happy – rather they are unhappy – about developments, then we liberals expect to be fully informed and transparent about what happened, because it should already lead to a minister becoming happy again. We expect a very correct call for proposals and an efficient and rapid information about the operations in this company so that the objectives of the reform can really be achieved and implemented.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e6364	Mr Grünewald. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. The same time applies. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e6383	Mr President. Federal Minister! You have told us a lot today what the role of the AWS is. They have also taken the word “research” into their mouth again. It is very much written about what research should mean for you, but paper is patient, and I now slowly understand where the expression “paperling” comes from, when you constantly say something that ultimately does not happen. Even on balls and festivals, it is easy to say something. President Khol said yesterday that €300 million more is available for basic research or additional research. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Not anymore! For!]] But what does the President of the Research Fund say? – The “One Stop Shop” principle is being severely countercared here. Covered is his budget with € 100 million, which means: Stop for research, but no shop! Look at how the AWS is organized; this is interesting: The institutions are two ministries, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Bartenstein, the clients are four ministries, Bartenstein, Grasser, Gehrer and Gorbach. I almost forgot the latter, although he said yesterday, he is the Research Minister, and then he added: Lisl, it's a little bit too. – That says everything about the division of competence of the Federal Government! I can already imagine that you have the desire to control research and science. Through this sought-after love of research you will find desires, but not desires of chaste miners, but unbelievably cold, hard desires! If you look at the AWS, with these four ministries involved, these four ministries can also be found in the National Foundation Council. You must imagine that the Foundation Council, which is intended to guarantee free research funding, consists of seven persons: four are appointed by the said Ministries, two have already been appointed, namely the Chairman of the Council for Research and Technology and his alternate – also men of the Government! What remains is a – potentially, I say – independent candidate from the Austrian National Bank. Who's wondering? Who determines the Presidency of the Foundation Council? – Of course, Grasser and Gorbach! That's what I'm wondering. Or even grass and you! [[in the direction of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Bartenstein, who is sitting on the government bank]] – He's reading the paper, but that doesn't matter. What do I do if the management is still transferred to the AWS after four supervisory boards and three managing directors have arrived? Economic promotion is one of the tasks of the AWS. So I'll close it. In the end, they use their political influence. Your clients, so that you will be served by this one again, see Homepage et cetera pp. Of course one should promote the economy, against which we have never had anything. Applied research also includes funding. But then you should call it that way and not say: Science is being promoted here. Science is not just the production of better petroleum lamps. At a large meeting of all Austrian research organisations in the AKH, one of the presidents said: If everything is just applied research, I tell you, engineers may be able to construct the best petroleum lamps, but we still have no light! – This is also the meaning of basic research. Are you not the ones you have always called the ÖVP as an educational bourgeois party, the hair to mountains – which is not as easy for me – when you see that there is only talk about technology and natural sciences? There are also philosophy, languages, sociology: Can you imagine that there will be the AWS and the Research and Technology Council that will focus on National Foundations? I can only say: Please ensure that research remains free! This does not mean anarchy, it must mean: free from political influence. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You can determine, of course, what you have seen, and that belongs to the audience, you can exercise political influence, and for the time you no longer sit on the row, you can create posts there. But this is not the meaning of research funding, nor the meaning of the AWS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e6431	No one has spoken in this debate on the response to the question. The debate is therefore closed. Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e6450	The next item is the debate on Mr Cap's request, Mag. Kogler on the establishment of an investigation committee on the procurement of combat aircraft. The request has been distributed to all Members. A reading by the writer is therefore lacking. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e6570	The debate has not been requested. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on this request for the setting up of an investigation committee. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the request to set up an investigation committee to give a sign. – The request remains in the minority, it is therefore rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2004-03-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00054_d7e6602	I am still announcing that at today's meeting requests from 359/A to 363/A have been received; in addition, questions 1566/J to 1576/J and a request from Mr Herzegovina to the President of the National Council. The next meeting of the National Council, held on Wednesday, 24. March 2004 will be convened in writing. The sitting is closed.
