ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e1041	Ladies and gentlemen! I welcome you all to 81. Meeting of the National Council. The meeting was opened. The official protocols of the 78. Meeting of 13. ==References====External links== Meeting of 14. In October 2004, the European Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, MEPs are reported Ledolter, Dr. Stummvoll, Ing. Gartlehner, Lacner, Mag. Muttons and power. Weinzinger. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e1072	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellor's Office on the resolutions of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following messages: Deputy Chancellor Hubert Gorbachwird by Federal Minister Mag. Herbert Main Representative. Federal Minister for Education, Science and Culture Elisabeth Gehrerwerd by Federal Minister Maria Rauch-Kallatret. The Federal Chancellor has announced his intention to make a statement on the appointment of a new member of the government. There is a request by five Members to refer to this declaration in accordance with § 81 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure to hold a debate immediately. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e1114	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e1186	According to § 74a para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure before the entry into the agenda requested urgent consideration of the self-employed amendment 461/A (E) tabled at the same time by Dr Helene Partik-Pablé, colleagues on the revision of the Asylum Act. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the implementation of the urgent request will take place at least three hours after the date of entry into the agenda, i.e. at 12.05 a.m. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e1214	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the duration and shape of the debate. The following speech period was set for the debate from 9.05 a.m. to 12 p.m., transmitted by the ORF: The German Chancellor's statement, which has anticipated 10 minutes of speaking time, then one speech per group of 15 minutes each, then the German Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs' speech with 20 minutes, one word per group each with 7 minutes of speaking time, then word by another member of the government with 7 minutes of speaking time, and one word per group with 5 minutes each and one word per group each with 5 minutes. The Federal Chancellor's statement and the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs's speech should not exceed a total of 30 minutes. Before the end of the final round, the President-in-Office of the Council shall be evenly distributed to the political groups in such a way that all the political groups can still speak. The House decides on this classification. We therefore come to the vote. I call on the ladies and gentlemen to give their approval to this proposal of the President-in-Office of the Council. I note the unanimous adoption of this proposal. That is why we are doing so. Declaration by the Federal Chancellor according to § 19 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council concerning the appointment of a new member of the Government
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e1251	We now reach the German Chancellor's declaration according to § 19 para. 2 GOG on the appointment of a new member of the government. A debate will then take place in accordance with the request. I now give the floor to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany to make his statement.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e1272	High house! Mr President, I should like to congratulate you very much on this fine planning and fine-tuning. I am, of course, the following are hereby made aware of: Today's debate takes place on the day of the Holy Ursula, so it has its name day. Here are two Ursulas left and right of me. [[towards State Secretary Haubner and Federal Minister Dr Plassnik]] Of course, no one knew that, but it's a good coincidence. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and with representatives of the liberals.]] First of all, I should like to say a great thank you to Franz Fischler, who will finish his work in a few days, his great work for Europe and thus also for us Austrians. He has been our Commissioner in Europe for ten years, has done the most important tasks; in particular, he has developed and made European agriculture more viable. In his time he successfully mastered the most difficult crisis in the European agricultural policy, namely the BSE crisis, in which millions of cattle had to be slaughtered – some tens of thousands alone in Austria – and he has been able to keep the consequences of this crisis very well away from Europe. Austria and European farmers thank him for making the European agricultural model viable at WTO level. The environmental development of the rural area dates back to Franz Fischler. Today 140 000 European farms have been converted to organic farming, 18 000 of them in Austria alone. Again: a warm thanks to Franz Fischler for his achievements for Europe and for us! [[General condolences.]] I would also like to thank Dr Benita Ferrero-Waldner, the excruciated Foreign Minister. We did so at the end of September; at that time, however, the hearing in the European Parliament had not yet been completed, which was then completed a few days later, on 5 May. October, it was carried out. Dr. Ferrero-Waldner really brilliant there, made a first-class figure by bringing up arguments that convinced Members from all political groups. I would like to give her all the good wishes for her responsible work at this point, because it will lead the whole of Europe's external relations over the next few years, so that, in turn, for our continent and, ultimately, also for Austria. Therefore: All right, Benita, on this way! [[General condolences.]] Some say that Austria has too little to report in Europe. I may perhaps be able to give a brief break over what has been happening here in Vienna alone in the last few days. The first visit abroad – “A foreign visit” is wrong, actually it was the first visit within the European family – led José Manuel Barroso to Austria. The first visit of the Spanish President of the European Parliament, Josep Borrell, took place this week in Vienna. He visited the Austrian Parliament, discussed with parliamentarians, discussed with me, with the Federal President and with all those who make foreign policy and European policy in Austria. And there were important discussions, because this also encouraged understanding of our concerns, for our vision of Europe. On Monday, Korean Prime Minister Lee was in Vienna. This was the first visit ever made by a Korean Prime Minister Vienna. And in these days – Tuesday, Wednesday and today – we had the historic visit, the first visit of the Israeli President Katzav here in Vienna – a moving visit, which, I believe, drew out all the depths and all the possibilities and in a good way also addressed differences. I'm proud of the fact that this visit was carried out in such a way. I would like to thank all those who have contributed to the fact that it is also outwardly shown that Austria has gone to its past, History, but above all present and future, is that we want to move something together in the world. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This afternoon, the Danish Prime Minister will come to Vienna to vote on certain attitudes. I was in Finland and Germany a few days ago, especially to vote on the positions in the Turkey question and on the forthcoming EU Presidency. We had intensive discussions these days, telephone conferences around South Tyrol. I would like to congratulate Mr National Council President Dr. Andreas Kholein: He has worked as a networker here and has been in contact with the Italian Parliament and with the South Tyrol friends – at the same time I have been in contact with Berlusconi – so that within hours we have intercepted the crisis that could have arisen. This is Europe, and Austria sounds like it! We are not the biggest, we are not the most important, but we are an important and worthy member of this European family – and we are happy to be, dear friends. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Now for a change in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Last week I asked Dr. Ursula Plassnik whether she would be willing to perform the function of an Austrian Foreign Minister for the next few years for this legislative period. I believe that Mrs. Dr. Plassnik, so far Ambassador to Bern, is excellently qualified for this function. She studied in Vienna and then graduated from the Collège d’Europe in Bruges. She did a banking internship in the CA, in the credit institution banking club. She worked in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs from 1981 onwards, particularly in the entire CSCE problem, and was involved in the delegations and the follow-up meeting. She worked in the Austrian representation in the Council of Europe. Many Members who have been in the house for a long time still know them from that time. For three years, from 1990 to 1993, she was selected to work in the EFTA Secretariat, so multilateral cooperation has also come to know well. She then worked at an international foundation in St. Gallen and was then head of the General Council and European Council Department of Foreign Affairs until she became head of the cabinet in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 1997 and later in the Federal Chancellery. Ursula Plassnik therefore brings a wealth of skills, experience, knowledge and above all many personal activities and conditions for this office. I would ask you to agree to this proposal, just like the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, and to give it a boost of confidence, a advance of cooperation, because we must speak with one voice in Europe, in the world, if we want to be heard. I owe to my two cabinet heads Ulrike Baumgartner-Gabitzer and Ursula Plassnik the renunciation to or the preparation of Martin Luther. I thank them for the knowledge of a quote that I would like to conclude by saying: “The greatest honor one can do to a person is to have confidence in him.” Give Ursula Plassnik this confidence! - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e1409	I would like to thank the Chancellor of the Federal Republic for his statement. Before I give the floor to the first speaker, Dr. Gusenbauer, I welcome two former Foreign Ministers in the gallery: Old Federal President Kurt Waldheim and Vice-Chairman Alois Mock. Welcome! [[General appeal and appeal from the government bank.]] I would also like to point out, on a given occasion, that I will in future consider the use of laptops as a propaganda tool here in plenary to be illegal. [[Abg. Grossruck: Mr. Broukal!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Kummerer: Where's that?]] [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Where is this in the Rules of Procedure?]] Mr Dr Gusenbauer has the floor. 15 minutes of red time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e1472	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Today's presentation of a new foreign minister is a good opportunity to discuss issues of foreign policy, issues of common foreign policy and where common objectives can be identified. I believe – and here I share the Federal Chancellor’s view – that it is especially important for a small country that, regardless of who is currently in the government, there is a continuous and reliable foreign policy. It is particularly important for a small country that a clear foreign policy line is recognizable over a long period of time. Therefore, foreign policy may be the subject of cross-party, cross-governmental and cross-opposition consensus more than other policy areas. I believe that whenever there was a consensus on foreign policy, which went beyond all the political groups, Austrian foreign policy was successful. And I hope, Mrs Federal Minister, that you will make your contribution to the Austrian foreign policy being a common one. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] There are a number of questions on the agenda which you will be dealing with and dealing with in the coming weeks and months. First of all, the question: Where is Europe going? and on the other hand: What ideas do we have about future policy in Europe? . After the elections to the European Parliament, we have discussed here in the House that the distance between the citizens and the European institutions is obviously increasing because many people do not find themselves in the European project. This must be the reason to think about how to reduce the distance between Europe and the people of Europe. One of the main points that seems to me is that many parts of the European promise have not yet been settled. One was redeemed: Europe is today a zone of peace and stability. Many European countries have achieved a common currency. Many European states have implemented the Schengen area and thus also a common internal security policy. But what has not yet been achieved today is to develop a common European economic policy, which is also the prerequisite for a social Europe to be realized. We Socialists and Socialists believe that only if the European Union is able to take into account the needs of the people of Europe in an appropriate way can this great division be overcome between the European institutions and the people of Europe. Therefore, social Europe is the key to strengthening the identification of people with the European project – and you should also make a contribution there. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== In May of this year, a historic step was taken: The European Union has been extended from a Union of 15 to a Union of 25. This is a step that has taken place on the paper and is now to be implemented step by step into reality, and the European Union of 25 is to live in the future at least as much as the Union of the 15. But we know – not only from the public’s concern, but also from our own experience – that much remains to be done to ensure that this Union of 25 really works well. A basic condition for ratification of the European Constitution, which has already been adopted, will be in all Member States of the EU. However, we must note with some concern that there are a number of Member States in which it is far from certain that this Constitution will actually apply to the consent of Parliaments or citizens. I believe that Austria is taking a good step by ratifying this European Constitution here in the House. This is a clear sign that Austria is ready to provide this Union with a working basis for the 25 as well. But it will be up to you – not only to you, but also to you, Mrs Foreign Minister – to make a contribution to the discussion and negotiations with colleagues that this European Constitution will be put into effect as quickly as possible, because only then will the Europe of the 25 also be a living Europe in the new European Union. . We are saying about the European Constitution, but we want a common European Constitution to be ratified as quickly as possible by all EU Member States. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In the summer of this year, the just-separable Austrian Commissioner Franz Fischler wrote a very significant letter to the other members of the EU commission. In addition to many considerations on the question of ‘How can Europe regulate its future relationship with Turkey?’, he asks a key question at the end of his letter, namely: Is it the key task of Europe to expand, or is it the key task of the European Union to strengthen itself in order to be able to act as a strengthened Union not only in the world but also in relation to its own citizens? – And he comes to the following clear view: Strengthening the EU of 25 is the key business of the European Union before any further enlargement. I think Franz Fischler is right! If we want the EU to have a stronger anchorage among citizens, if we want the European Union to be able to actually meet the objectives we combine with it, then strengthening the European Union is the main task that we have to address in the next few years. Ladies and gentlemen! Against this background, of course, the question arises: How do we regulate our relationship with those countries that are partly in Europe and partly outside Europe? – There is already a question of whether the only possibility is for each European country to become a member of the European Union. Can we imagine that there is once a European Union going from the Atlantic to Vladivostok? Can we imagine that all the European countries that are going through a better or worse process of political transformation today are members of the European Union, and at the same time we can achieve that this European Union is being strengthened within itself? I share Franz Fischler's argument that: One can also expand a successful project, with the result that it endangers the effectiveness and functionality of the entire project. Therefore, Mrs Foreign Minister, we believe that, in addition to membership of the European Union, there must also be another form of cooperation or treaty with those European states that are not members of the European Union, in order to have a good relationship with them in order to strengthen cooperation with them, but at the same time to prevent the European project from being threatened. Negotiations with Turkey would be a good one – a good one! – For example, to develop such a treaty, which can also be a basis for other European states if they carry out appropriate political and economic reforms. Mrs. Foreign Minister! I have heard with interest that you believe that the outcome of the negotiations that will begin in December will be more open. But there are also many people who believe – and I mean, with a certain right – that, once the negotiations have begun, there is no doubt about accession – because there has never been negotiations, which have also included accession, which have not ultimately led to accession. [[Interference of Federal Minister Rauch-Kallat.]] With Norway it was so that the Norwegians then refused, but there was a final accession agreement, Mrs. Federal Minister. The Norwegians just decided not to join. As has been said, all negotiations with the objective of accession have led to the conclusion of accession negotiations. If it is said today that this is a project for the next 20 years, then I must resist it: It is seen in the Commission report that it is expected that Turkey will be a member of the next financial perspective in 2014. If you follow the Commission's report and the first opinions from the European Parliament, you will find: There are some who believe that these negotiations should take only four or six years to be concluded. That is why, I believe, it is crucially important, especially in responsibility for the future of the European Union, that there is also an alternative to membership in the European Union for European States in the dialogue. We should take seriously what Franz Fischler has directed: Strengthening the European Union is the first goal! – We Social Democrats share this objective. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Common foreign policy means, Mrs Federal Minister, that we are trying to develop a common position in Austria on essential issues of war and peace. I do not hide that I was somewhat irritated by the statements made in the course of the Iraq war by the Federal Government. If our divorced foreign minister has said to the Iraq war at the time: We're in the middle! Then I have to say: This is how the Austrians do not understand neutrality! Then: Neutrality does not mean standing in the middle, but means rejecting crystal clear military conflicts that do not have coverage by the UN World Security Council. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I also expect this to be the basis for future policy. It is precisely because of its neutrality that Austria has the commitment not to participate in wars, with the commitment not to tolerate the stationing of foreign troops in its territory, and with the obligation not to contribute to a military pact. the obligation to take a very clear attitude even in the case of issues of military action. I do not think we would be good at the world if the role of the United Nations in deciding whether it is a legitimate use of force of arms or not would be pushed into the background. I believe that common foreign policy presupposes open dialogue here in Parliament, but also standing on the foundations of what common foreign policy has always meant in Austria, including the international positioning of our neutrality policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The Federal Chancellor asked for an advance of confidence for the foreign minister, and I think: This advance of confidence is yours! I have no reason to assume that you would not be sufficiently qualified for this office, and I have no reason to assume that you will not try to exercise it according to best knowledge and conscience. That is why I am telling you with all the clarity: If you are committed to the principles of a common Austrian foreign policy if you consider common Austrian foreign policy to be a cross-party issue and try not only to make government foreign policy but also total Austrian foreign policy, then this advance of trust is for you. - You get it from the SPÖ. It will be up to you to justify this advance of confidence.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e1635	The honourable Member is now speaking. Molterer. His speaking time is 15 minutes. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e1654	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government, but above all Mrs Ursula Plassnik, the new Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs! Austria's foreign policy is in good hands, Austria's foreign policy is in the hands of Dr. Ursula Plassnik. Ladies and gentlemen! Dr. Ursula Plassnik is a competent woman, a trained diplomat who has been sitting at the interfaces for many years, where foreign policy is actually designed. Ursula Plassnik is a educated woman, a woman who has width, width in what one needs to base to make politically positive. Ursula Plassnik is a dynamic woman... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] Mr. Schieder, do you have any problems with the width? - No, you took off. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Sorry, you don't have it anymore! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs. Dr. Ursula Plassnik is a dynamic woman, a woman who makes decisions, a woman who has courage to decide. [[ongoing calls to the SPÖ]] And Mrs. Dr. Ursula Plassnik is a sensitive personality, a personality that has the sense of people’s concerns. And Mrs. Dr. Ursula Plassnik is an unconventional woman, a woman who brings new things into politics. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Dr. Ursula Plassnik therefore has the prerequisites for what I have said: Austria's foreign policy is in good hands! [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] I do not agree, Mr Arbitrator, if you have personally felt hurt by what I said – your group is obviously that – to apologise for it, because I would simply not think it right not to apologize if you felt it negative. [[Abg. Arbitrators: No, stop!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: No! I just wanted to talk about good manners!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Ms. Dr. Ursula Plassnik is at the head of the Foreign Office, a department that actually has a variety of highly qualified and good employees. The foreign office is a key resort, and Austria is well represented by this foreign office in the world. Ursula Plassnik is now at the head of this office. It will be at the head of the Austrian Foreign Office, which will lead and shape the foreign policy of the Republic of Austria – leading and shaping, ladies and gentlemen. Especially for Austria, for a country with this history, for a country with this geopolitical situation, foreign policy has always been something essential, perhaps not always something spectacular, but always something essential. And especially in foreign policy, there have been profound changes in recent decades. I believe that today's debate should also be an occasion for us to point out these changes in the external policy framework for our home country. For many decades, Austria has been a country between two blocks, a country between two large blocks of power – and there was a cold war; we must remember that because many young people no longer know – a country that had to cope with major crises. Remember the year 1956, think of the year 1968! Austria has mastered these crises. Austria has always had a bridge function, a bridge function between these blocks. Austria has managed to have good contacts even in difficult times, official contacts, but Austria has always been concerned to have unofficial contacts, contacts with people who have lived in these regimes, in the communist dictated regimes as dissidents. And today we can say: This investment by Austrian politicians has paid off, because the dissidents of that time are now sitting in the main places in these neighbouring countries, where democratically decided. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] For Austria, for our home country, there have been – and this is my firm conviction – two developments over the past 15 years that have offered fundamentally new rules for the Republic of Austria as a great opportunity. Once there is the year 1987, where Austria after a long discussion – and I say: finally! – submitted the application for membership of Austria to the European Union, inseparably linked with the names Mock, Busek, Vranitzky. But there was something second, and that was the year 1989. The fall of the Berlin Wall, the fall of the Iron Curtain have changed Austria as well as membership of the European Union. And we can say today, ladies and gentlemen, that Austria has used these two things, request for the European Union and the year 1989, because only from these two events can Austria's membership be explained to the European Union and the enlargement of the European Union. Both great opportunities for our country! And I can say today, we can say: Austria has taken advantage of this opportunity! Austria has taken advantage of Europe’s chance – and Austria has taken advantage of enlargement, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I would therefore like to thank Benita Ferrero-Waldner and Franz Fischler for being inseparably connected with these two personalities. As Commissioner for the European Union, Benita Ferrero-Waldner will do great work. I am still saying today, as I have said several times, that I regret that it has not been possible to reach a unanimous decision on the nomination of Benita Ferrero-Waldner in this House. Their appearance in Brussels, their appearance at the hearing has proved that our trust was justified, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] And I think it would be good for you to say today that you made a mistake back then. I would also like to thank Franz Fischler, who has become a major European in this role and who has made Europe very massive and substantial. But foreign policy does not stand, and our new Foreign Minister, Dr. Ursula Plassnik, will have to face a whole series of major tasks, to deal with major tasks, in the interests of our homeland, in the interests of our Republic of Austria. What are these tasks? I think it is also good that we address openly what challenges this presents to our country, because change in foreign policy must be just as shaping a principle as in all other policy areas. Changes at global level: The global discussions are today marked by the big question of “fight against terror”, and also a small country like Austria will and must make its contribution to it. The international discussion is also marked by the question “How can we help to devastate conflict spots?” Not so far away from us, ladies and gentlemen, there are areas of conflict. Austrian foreign policy must be marked by the fact that we are actively contributing to all peacekeeping measures. Austrian foreign policy is and will continue to be marked by the fight against poverty, offensive commitment to development aid, human rights, but also with sustainability and the environment. Mrs Ursula Plassnik as a new Austrian foreign minister will work successfully in the world for Austria and thus in the overall interest of our country, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In Europe, we have much to do in order to make the project Europe even more integrated into the hearts of people. That's part of it. I think it is important to recognise that the enlargement of the European Union by the ten new Member States must now be carried out. The EU needs to consolidate itself because the next major projects are already in place, which support Austria and want Austria – Bulgaria, Romania, Croatia. But what is necessary in European integration is to “take away” people in this process. Because I know Mrs. Dr. Ursula Plassnik very, very long and well, I know that she has the power and the ability to cause people to go along on the path of integration in Europe, and thus to anchor Europe into the hearts of people, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] However, the Europe project must also be strengthened within, by strengthening security in Europe in the political sense. The instruments for Europe's security must be expanded, as must the instruments for strengthening the economic location or the instruments in the field of common foreign and security policy. But Europe will not be complete if we do not also want to recognise and implement the issue of jobs, economic development and the social dimension as a level playing field. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We must pay attention to this – and I say this very openly to you, Mr Gusenbauer: We must not make the mistake of using Europe for some populist consideration! In view of what you have said to Turkey today, I have great concern that this risk exists. Why? – Those who want the deepening of Europe responsibly must, however, at the same time have the openness to engage in negotiations with those countries that have always been offering this negotiation option for 30 years... – or 40 years. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: 40!]] In the interests of the people on the one hand, in concern of the situation and in knowledge of the situation in Turkey on the other, as well as in concern for the European Union's ability to handle whether accession can be achieved in this dimension, I say, we are talking about negotiations, but we must keep them – and do so! – open the exit. It would not be correct if we said today: We close the doors, because closed doors, ladies and gentlemen, are a risk to us. [[Abg. Gradwelt: Who spoke about it?]] And I don't want a risk for Austria, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Of course, in Austria there are a number of tasks in which you, Mrs Federal Minister, have our full support, because I know that they are also your concerns. The European Constitution must be ratified because the European Constitution offers a whole range of great, positive perspectives for our country. The regional partnership is our common concern because Austria is thus becoming stronger in the middle of this new Europe, which we have had since enlargement. The EU Presidency will be a great opportunity for Austria. And she is with you, Mrs Foreign Minister, in the best hands – in just as good hands as the multilateral concerns that a country like Austria needs to have in order to be permanently located by important United Nations institutions. The most important task that we have in common, and which you, Mrs Federal Minister – I know – will address with full heart and with full commitment, is to tell the citizens, the Austrians, the security and the certainty that the European integration and the full participation of Austria in international developments is the best for our country. You, Mrs. Foreign Minister, have made a motto, and I have read it in an interview. This motto is: Strengthen Austria's position in Europe and the world! – Equipped with your strength, Mrs. Dr. Plassnik, and strengthened by our trust this will succeed. Good luck with your work for Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e1867	Mr Van der Bellen has now come to speak. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: me?]] His speaking time is also 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e1896	Mr President. I didn't know that I was reported as a contra-redner, because on and on, we're not at all against the new foreign minister. [[I should like to congratulate Members of the Greens, the ÖVP and the Liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: But against the Molterer!]] I will say a few critical words, but it is too early to criticize the new Foreign Minister, Dr. Plassnik, on the first day of office, especially since we have not heard her first speech at all. This does not fit at all “for direction”. I would like to begin by saying that this day is not only remarkable because we have a new foreign minister – who, of course, also the Greens want good luck and success! – but this day is also remarkable because this is my memory of the first government transformation since the installation of black and blue, which does not precipitate an acute crisis. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame.]] All other government reforms were carried out as follows: The old minister, the old minister was great, the new will be even greater – and by the way, we will start! – Without exception it was so! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shy: Is this a praise now?]] But this time it's not. We do not have an acute crisis in foreign policy. We have several acute crises in domestic policy – perhaps I may mention this briefly: from the budget started on the university's crisis; the Constitutional Court lifts up one measure, one law after the other decided by Schwarz-Blau; the ÖBBlers are supposed to go in early retirement in future already at 40 and so on; so there are crises enough. [[Rejoicing with the Greens and the SPÖ]] – On the other hand, in foreign policy, they do not exist, at least in this form! But I have to say, Federal Chancellor: Whether today is the day of Saints Ursula or the day of Holy Nepomuk – perhaps there is also a saint Wolfgang, I don't know... – Yes? [[Yes, at the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Is there? – Aha, very interesting! [[Abg. Grossruck: 31. October!]] [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: Next week!]] At any rate, I think this is totally irrelevant, today and also on every other day of the year. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Grandruck:... Christians not!]] But what is not insignificant and in some way a good omen – if you want to be superstitious – for the ministry of Dr. Plassnik is: that a most important state visit is taking place in Austria in these days – I agree with all my previous speakers, in particular Federal Chancellor Schüssel, namely the visit of the Israeli President. For the first time in history, for the first time since the founding of Israel, if I am not deceived, such a visit takes place in Austria! [[We welcome the Greens and the ÖVP, as well as representatives of SPÖ and the Free Trade Unions.]] We have been waiting for almost three months now, as the successor of Mrs. Ferrero-Waldner will be called. What does that mean in Latin – the German Chancellor has somehow infected me now –: Habemus papam! We have a new foreign minister! - I don't know what that means in Latin. [[Abg. Scheibner: What does that mean on Latin?]] In any case: We have a new foreign minister. Federal Chancellor Schüssel has left almost three months to name the successor of Mrs Ferrero-Waldner. I think this is wrong, because a certain vacuum has been created in these months. Other countries have solved this question differently: If a minister, in particular a foreign minister, pushes into the Commission, very well, but then the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was immediately re-occupied. That's just once again. I'm doing a little hard now. At the beginning, I suggested that Mrs Plassnik be treated fairly today, because we know Mrs. Plassnik, of course, but from a very different context. As a foreign politician, she is now giving her first speech here in Parliament. We, the Greens, know Mrs. Dr. Plassnik, for example, from the government negotiations with the ÖVP in 2003 – and I am not at all ready to say: We have the best memories of Dr. Plassnik from these weeks and this context back then. [[The speaker turned to the representatives of the ÖVP.]] It's quite welcome! Thank you! [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] Yes, we have the best memories from then on, but I didn't want to burn incense – now I'm with these fatal metaphors again. What is now the foreign policy line of the new woman minister? – We are very excited about your first speech, because despite your experience, which you of course have: Their role to date was not public, not Parliament, not the wider public. With good reason, Mrs. Plassnik, you avoided media contacts as long as you were the Federal Chancellor's Cabinet Chef; these were not your task either. And I also find it not fair to say how I have read in some comments that the proximity to Federal Chancellor Schüssel is in some way a “handicap”. – A Cabinet Chef must have loyalty to her Minister, to her Federal Chancellor, of course! That was then, Mrs. Plassnik. – Of course, the role as a foreign minister will be assessed in a completely different way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] We will listen to your speech with great interest, Mrs. Minister. In advance, I can only mention a few points I wish to make. I wish that, as far as it goes, a common line in foreign policy is sought: with the opposition parties, but also with the wider public, if I can formulate it in this way. I think, in the past, Austrian foreign policy was not sufficiently focused on the so-called “people outside” – in fact I hate this expression – so all those who are not members of the House to explain positions and to promote understanding of what is the line of Austria’s foreign policy. For example, the question of whether a referendum on the enlargement of the EU would have been positive from 15 to 25 countries – one cannot be quite sure – points out that we have serious deficits in the mediation of such important foreign policy issues. It is not least the role of the Foreign Minister to explain such things, to promote positions, but in a way – I think – in which the Pro and Kontra are placed side by side and then carried out a weighting under the line – and not so, as was done in Austria before the 1994 referendum on EU accession to the large propaganda machine, because that is revenge sooner or later! Also in the question of Turkey, I think, one can be much more offensive, Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Plassnik, when I took your last interview. I am in no way on a line with colleagues Gusenbauer and the SPÖ: [[Abg. Grandruck:... neither?]] The Greens are saying that the accession negotiations are being opened within the meaning of the Commission proposal, a Commission proposal which, in any case, contains so many chewings that we are wondering if they have all been necessary. We also say that Turkey’s accession, if – and the clarity of this “if” is also a political mediation work – the EU is able to digest this enlargement when, at the same time and in parallel with these negotiations, the negotiations with Romania, Bulgaria, probably also Croatia, are concluded – and: if it is not forgotten that there are other Balkan countries, who, of course, if they want to, can and should become a member of the EU, such as Bosnia-Herzegovina or Macedonia. [[Abg. Scheibner: Since when?]] [[Abg. Big truck: Albania!]] [[Call the SPÖ:Serbia!]] Again: If that's what these countries want. This should be the priorities of European foreign policy – and I think it can be said clearly to the representatives of Turkey. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The greatest If is of course that Turkey fulfils the accession conditions. I believe that Turkey should be treated in the same way as other candidate countries – and not be overshadowed with extra-invented criteria. In so far as – and only to this extent – the outcome of these negotiations is open; it is not a priority open. But: If you don't have a negotiating goal, what are you negotiating about?- Oh, my God! I find that already at the border of the dizziness, which is tried to suggest there. [[Abg. Scheibner: Dizzy is that before the election you say something different than after the election!]] You have to say clearly: Yes, a accession of Turkey to the EU is likely to take place in a very long time, if, if... [[Abg. May. Molterer:... says the Commission report!]] But to say from the house, the result is completely open, I find that at the border. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Open exit!]] – The Commission too, regardless of the Commissioner’s first name, is not holy and not immune to criticism, Mr Molterer. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Molterer.]] I would also be interested, Mrs Foreign Minister, in how you stand on the previous successes and failures in foreign policy. You will probably not be able to explain all of this today, but perhaps over the next few months, such as the question of whether the representation of Austrian interests in Brussels has really been optimal – or whether Austria's deficits have not emerged after ten years of EU membership. goods or are the positions of our country in heavy transport policy – keyword: Transit – in EURATOM questions or in the question of genetically engineered seeds in agriculture, and so on, are they really so exotic that they are, as it were, hopelessly inferior from home? If so, you can say that clearly! Or have we made mistakes in lobbying? Have other countries been more successful in representing their respective interests? If yes: Why was that so, what should we change there? In conclusion: Of course, we are talking a lot about EU policy here – it is an important focus of the work of the new foreign minister; no question – but, of course, foreign policy is not just EU policy. Mr Gusenbauer has already rightly pointed out that, on questions such as the Iraq War, we would have expected more clarity and a stronger position from the then Foreign Minister Ferrero-Waldner – and not a nebulous “way of the middle” that no one can satisfy, nor those – of which there will be also some, even in Austria – who have supported the US Iraq war. [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the SPÖ]] This position has not brought anything – and not even the reputation of Austrian foreign policy. [[Abg. Großruck:... became the best Commissioner!]] I have taken out one aspect, Mr Commissioner, that will probably still be allowed. Even if you do not want to initiate a beatification process today, will you? [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] [[Abg. Big ruck reacts with shoulder pulls.]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] And if, I think, even in the Catholic Church it is customary to wait for about 80 years. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Mandak: First of all, miracles must happen!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: We still need miracles!]] On these questions we wish you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, clear positions, and I would like to mention once again the issue of the Iraq war, because it is, of course, in the interest of small nations in particular, that international law is observed that the United Nations Statutes are respected. With great nations this may be different; unfortunately, in recent years we have seen how this is partly handled. In the interests of small nations, it is in any case that the basic rules of international law are respected. Last but not least, Mrs Foreign Minister: The Greens expect you to find much more impetus in development cooperation than Austria has done in recent years. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] It is not true that Mrs Ferrero-Waldner had shown no interest in it. On the contrary: It has had a personal interest in these questions, but it has not – apparently – been able to enforce itself in these questions. There is now an EU commitment – thank God! – according to which at least 0.33 percent of GDP will be used for development cooperation. Mrs Lunacek reminds me almost daily that Austria is unfortunately far from this goal. We will have to make every effort to meet this EU requirement – not even an Austrian invention, so to speak, but a requirement on the part of the EU – by 2006. If you can't change anything in the budget for the next year, Mrs. Minister, if you can't take action here in the last second, then a proper Oha is scheduled for 2006. We wish you all the best, good luck, in the interests of all of us, especially in the goals that we also strive for. [[Abg. Dolinschek: And good luck!]] [[Abg. Großruck: And all the good for the name day!]] I can't wish you any success, it could be that we can't once carry a goal together, but you'll understand that, right? I can assure you that these successes we wish you to go home too. Consecration is not stated, but of all the government reforms I have experienced so far, it is one that I am most optimistic about that it was a good measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e2316	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. His speaking time is 15 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e2334	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Mrs. Foreign Minister! Of course, my group also congratulates you very warmly on this nomination and appointment to the Foreign Minister – a very, very important office! We know that you have not only knowledge but also political understanding, and also enforcement power, which I was able to get to know in the exercise of your former function, sometimes also had to. At that time, as a coalition partner, I would have liked you to have less enforcement and defence – in that case: your Federal Chancellor – but this is certainly a good condition for this new function. I know that you will be equally dynamic about Austrian interests, Dr. Plassnik! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It also accompanies you the praise of the opposition and also its announcement to contribute to a consensus in foreign policy. Wonderful! I hope that we can put all of this into reality together, because in the past – and I think that is not the case with Mrs. Foreign Minister Ferrero-Waldner – we have very often missed this consensus in foreign policy. It would be important for Austria to speak with a language not only in the government but also in Parliament. Only then can we implement our interests and our goals dynamically as well. Mr Gusenbauer! Yes to that consensus! Let us always talk about it, also about delicate points! Let's try to find common solutions! But then we must also include all of us when it comes to using foreign policy instruments, security instruments – you have addressed neutrality – to do so, one could also say, to misuse, in order to create false conditions in the public, perhaps also to startle fears and create a false picture of reality. There is no one in Austria, no politicians who want to lead our country into any war. There is no one in Austria who seriously calls into question the foreign policy and security position that Austria has had for many, many years. [[Abg. May. Worm: Mottenkasse!]] Mrs Colleague, you know very well that in the past this has often been presented by your group in such a way that the foreign and security debate has been included in election campaigns. [[Abg. Arbitrators: In an alliance!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Some Austrians wanted to lead to an alliance, not a war!]] Yes, but that does not mean going to war, Mr. Arbitrator! [[Abg. Arbitrators: But in an alliance, and that is also incompatible.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Josef Cap!]] That's right. You know very well that in many areas of security policy, the European Union is also using some of these instruments, wherever you have agreed. [[Abg. Dispensers: Some want to go to Nato!]] Even if you want to do so, Mr. Schieder, this does not mean that Austria is to and will participate in wars. [[Abg. Arbitrators: No, but it is not neutral!]] But you have often described this in the election discussion. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, one should be very sensitive and careful here. Yes, also to your idea or to your demand that, of course, the UN, the United Nations, should be the supreme body in the decisions on when, how and where there should be military interventions of the State community. But I wonder: Why didn't you, as a government party, just that in the Austrian federal constitution? They did not do this because according to the Austrian federal constitution, it would be theoretically possible for Austria to participate in combat proceedings even without the sanctions of the United Nations. You should also talk about why, when you had the opportunity to anchor that which you did not make, but today you put this demand here. We're for it! We also believe – and therefore our criticism of the Iraq war was very strong – that it must not be and cannot be that a country in the world, even though it is still so strong, decides where, when, and how military interventions take place. This must be decided at international level. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mrs. Foreign Minister! We will need this strong representation, especially within the European Union, and we hope that you will first and foremost represent the interests of Austria in the European Union and towards the European Union and will not think primarily about how to implement and perhaps even anticipate the ideas from Brussels, the projects of the Brussels bureaucracy here in Austria as quickly as possible, almost in model schooling. I think that's necessary. Especially in the interests of the citizens of the European Union, it must be noted that this European Union has to be there for the citizens of Europe and not – vice versa – for us for Brussels to be there for the bureaucrats. That must also be represented and represented, Mrs Foreign Minister. It will be sensible and necessary – a positive aspect of the last enlargement! – that with the new Member States, which are of their size, of their population, all the smaller and medium-sized countries of the European Union, one forms coalitions, scientific coalitions in order to be able to act strongly in Brussels, because there cannot be a two-class society in the European Union: here the few big, influential ones and there the many smaller ones who only have to understand what the greats have already decided in advance. – We expect this from an active European policy of the Austrian Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I know, Mrs Foreign Minister, that you will not have your personal opinion replaced by speaking notes by any officials, but that in the EU bodies you will dynamically say what you really think. The enlargement has been addressed. We have now formally implemented the largest round of enlargement in the history of the European Union, and now we are discussing the next and next enlargement in a fierce way, instead of really considering: Where are the shortcomings of the last round of enlargement? There have been progress reports, all of which have listed these deficits. The now implemented will once be a success – it should not be considered: What will happen in ten, 15 or 20 years? A word on Turkey. I am not of the opinion that because the European Union has made mistakes in its Turkish policy over the last 20, 30 years, it has been unfair to continue to cement these mistakes and this dishonesty. It was not the European Union of the 21st century. Mr Van der Bellen. This was an economic community that started these talks 30 years ago. These are completely different conditions than the political Union, which the European Union is now. This is also a system of values, this is a political system, this is a legal system that we must look at, and we must note that Turkey is not worse and not better, but it is different from what we in the European Union imagine under all these values and conditions. This must be made known openly and honestly. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It doesn't make much sense to say: We all know this, but we do not want to say it, because that is unpleasant, which may lead to conflicts and whatever, so we are pushing everything to the long bank. Through these accession negotiations, we have air again for ten, 15, 20 years, and then nothing needs to happen. – It would have been more honest to say: Accession will not work, but Turkey is important to us. That's also reality: Turkey is a very sensitive area, an important country for Europe, an interface between regions, also an interface between value systems, a crisis region that is likely to be even more sensitive in the future than we are now aware of. Turkey will have to be an important partner for Europe. I would like to negotiate this with Turkey, not for 20 years, but for quick negotiations, as we confirm the relationship between Europe and Turkey in such a way that this Turkey is also a strategic partner for Europe, that it is an economic partner that it is a cultural partner – but not the requirement to be regarded as a full member of the European Union. That would be honest foreign policy, that would be honest European policy in the sense of the matter. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You can think about alternatives – you, Mr Schieder, have addressed NATO – but you also have to consider how countries that cannot or do not want to become members of this alliance are involved, because the common goal of giving security is so important. There was an example of the partnership for peace. And I could imagine this partnership, a partnership for Europe, in order to achieve this very effect: to make Europe's policy together, to make a common peace policy, to make a common economic policy, but without having to take up the disadvantages of full membership! This peace partnership would be a very good example of a partnership for Europe. We should keep an eye on this, ladies and gentlemen. In addition to European policy, Mrs Foreign Minister, it will also be important to strengthen the foreign policy position outside the European Union and also to look for those niches – I know, Austria is a small country, we should not take too important a place – where we can make a contribution to the joint in the world. You know that I always have the Middle East in mind, and this is precisely because Austria has excellent relations here, and also has a very, very good reputation, and because it is an absolute necessity that all the countries that have the opportunity to make up for themselves. We must clearly signal – and we are an objective partner here – that no one can achieve political goals by force or by war, that in violence and in war there are no winners, but only losers. In the Middle East, not only the right of Israel to the state but also the right to peace, security and freedom of its own people must be in doubt, and at the same time the right of the Palestinians to this freedom, to this independence and security and to all other states in that region should be undisputed. A solution to this conflict will not be in the struggle, not in exclusion, not in mutual diffamation, but only in dialogue, in the way of negotiation. In this context, Austria and the European Union must play an important role in mediation and negotiation. – This too would be an important task of Austrian foreign policy in the future. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It would also be good and important to take an honest stand wherever human rights are violated, even if those who do so are a very influential and powerful statesman. It would also be good and important for one to take a clear position, for example, in the Chechen conflict, that one of course condemns terrorist measures, that one also recognises the counter-reaction as inadmissible for a democratic rule of law and criticises that, for example, in Sudan, one will discuss once again the power of the state community if it does not really want to intervene. – One resolution after another ends in the trash, human rights violations continue to be on the agenda, people are murdered, women are raped, displaced, and, in fact, no one makes a serious reaction. Even if it is a matter of exchanging diplomatically nice notes in other areas – in Afghanistan, in the Balkans – to develop any theoretical peace concepts at the green table, but which have nothing to do with reality on the ground, more practical reference would be required. That too can bring Austria. Development cooperation, ladies and gentlemen: I too insist that we must prevent conflicts from having to pack them at the root. We must give people in the regions hope, give the future, and this can only be achieved through active, also courageous development cooperation, through a development cooperation which also takes money, taking advantage of it in order to help people. So, not promising much at Pledging conferences, but giving help in concrete projects so that there can really be a future in peace and freedom. The same applies to other areas, such as those of the economy: It is also a task of foreign policy to support and strengthen the Austrian economy abroad. The same applies to other objectives, such as helping animal protection to break through. Everyone is excited about Japan, that Japan does not comply with the whaling agreement, but that there are European countries, such as Iceland, who do exactly the same under the cover of scientific research, that is not what we dare to address again. That's why: There are values, and we have to hold them up and defend them! We must and must always be on the side of the law and fight against injustice, no matter who does this injustice, ladies and gentlemen. This is what the world expects from Austria, from foreign policy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Foreign Minister, you do not receive from us any "presidencies" because we are convinced that you will meet this challenge that you will bring this active component into Austrian foreign policy, that you will make politics for the people of Austria, in Europe, in the world, and will thus also be an important business card for the reputation of our home country. – Good luck! You will have our support, and I hope we will also bring together this announced consensus of all political parties in Austrian foreign policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e2506	Mrs Ursula Plassnik has now spoken. Since the Federal Chancellor spoke only 7 minutes 45 seconds, their speaking time is 22 minutes. – Mrs Minister, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e2528	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I would like to start by saying a few words on my personal motivation to take over this high office. I have to go back 25 years in my personal history. I studied in Belgium at the time. It was the time of the Cold War, it was the time when the European Community – then consisting of nine states – discussed enlargement with Portugal, Spain and Greece. That seemed a very dared undertaking at the time. For me, two aspects have been focused. First: Something was going on here, something new was created here, something in Europe not yet there. The question that followed: Where is my country, where is Austria in this European integration event? Today, 25 years later, we are recognised partners in the European Union. We have also moved from the edge to the geographical centre of the new Europe. The Austrian foreign policy of the last decades and its legal bases – international law and neutrality law – have been and have been successful. They have brought our country security, stability and prosperity. Paul Lendvai, once refugee and immigrant, today highly valued Austrian, says: “There is hardly any other country in the world that since 1945 has made such a leap from the imitator to the economic model for social harmony and the most enviable quality of life as Austria has just done.” [[General condolences.]] High house! Foreign policy needs continuity and trust. But foreign policy also needs a courageous approach to new tasks, opportunities and responsibilities. Next year, Austria will be a member of the European Union for ten years. This was the most important foreign policy policy position since the State Treaty. We have decided courageously and correctly. The EU membership has done well in Austria. We are working with the peace project Europe. We have a common currency and a common European security area where we can freely pass the borders. Especially through my work in Switzerland, I have become aware of what it means not to be a member of the EU. Change money, convert constantly, show passport, always have to think: How much can I buy? – That’s where you notice It is only once again that EU membership brings benefits in everyday life. [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Freeman and the Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] But Austria has also benefited economically. Our exports have since been doubled. The investment of foreign companies in Austria has tripled. Thousands of new jobs have been created. 50 000 students have studied abroad since our accession by EU programmes. I say quite openly: I am happy for the young people and their opportunities. [[It is a surprise to the ÖVP and the liberals, as well as to the representatives of the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Austria is back in the middle of Europe from the edge. This has given the term “neighbourhood policy” a fundamental new meaning far from any provincial appeal. The seed sown by my predecessor three years ago with the Regional Partnership has gone since 1. May on, because only by joining our neighbours can it fully unfold. We no longer sit opposite each other as a negotiating partner, but on the same side of the table. As an equal partner, we also have a common interest in deepening regional cooperation and making it flourish, because neighborhood lives on the curiosity of getting to know each other, listening to each other, being open to the concerns of the other. In this spirit it will be possible to address difficult questions as well. It is important for us, for example, transport and infrastructure, the environment, security, border control, the fight against illegal immigration, drug trafficking and tow-freeness. Ladies and gentlemen! The relationship with our neighbours has never been politically and humanly as good as today, and I want to deepen that, because: Peace in the world begins at home, and it begins with the neighbors. [[As a result of this, the European Parliament has adopted a number of amendments to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, namely the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty on European Union, and the Treaty on European Union on European Union and the Treaty on European Union on European ……]] That is why our commitment to South-East Europe is also important, as is the support of Romania, Bulgaria and Croatia in joining the European Union. As an example of a successfully resolved minority conflict, South Tyrol today has its autonomy. I will do everything I can to further ensure that the South Tyroleans are a bridge between Austria and Italy, and protect the security of autonomy. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP, the Freeman and the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A significant part of Austrian foreign policy is European policy. Those who want to move in Europe must develop and offer solutions for the Community. Our position in the European Union will only be as strong as the contribution we make to European solutions. My first trip will take me to Rome next week to sign the European Constitution. This Constitution provides citizens with fundamental rights to which the European Union is bound and which can be brought directly to the European Court of Justice. However, the new Constitution will also make possible the European Union's uniform foreign and security policy required and expected by its citizens. Europe will receive a foreign minister. The Union was always marked by dynamics and movement, and with the Austrian Presidency in 2006, we will assume responsibility for bringing Europe forward. At the same time, the EU Presidency is an opportunity to strengthen our own Community awareness and provide a highly qualified service for Europe. For me, the intensification of the transatlantic dialogue is also a task. The summits with the USA, Canada and Latin America will be held in Austria in 2006. The EU and the USA have many common values, interests and strengths. On the side, they can achieve many things, such as environmental protection, security, or the promotion of human rights. It is therefore important to work on overcoming existing barriers. [[As a result of this, the European Parliament has adopted a number of amendments to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, namely the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty on European Union, and the Treaty on European Union on European Union and the Treaty on European Union on European ……]] Ladies and gentlemen! To represent Austria's position in Europe and in the world is my central task. An Austrian position is all the better perceived than it can rely on a broad basis. We only have one voice, but this voice will be heard all the more clearly, the more beautiful it is. I therefore invite all those involved in foreign policy to bring together the political parties, the federal states, but also the social partners and NGOs to achieve this objective. In a world of international competition of interests and ideas, we simply cannot afford to abandon material contributions and expertise. [[It is a pleasure to see the ÖVP and the liberals, as well as to the SPÖ representatives.]] However, this also includes creating clarity, what Austria is capable of and what it is unable to do. We need to demand our own sense of mind and sense of reality. Ladies and gentlemen! This year, the Heads of State or Government will have to take a decision on the opening of negotiations with Turkey. We must ask ourselves what a European future for Turkey can look like. There are legitimate concerns in the population – the costs, the labour market, agriculture, human rights, equality, religious freedom – and I can understand these concerns and argue for an objective discussion. But it is also important to me to say three things clearly here: The start of negotiations does not mean that Turkey can now join immediately. The start of negotiations does not mean that there can only be a single result, defined from the outset – even the objectives of the negotiations should remain open. And the third point: The Austrian Parliament as a representative of the people will have the last word at all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Their role and hence the role of Parliament in European issues is important. That is why I also welcome Parliament's desire to discuss more frequent and intensive European issues in the future. I would like to be at the disposal of the House. [[General condolences.]] Good foreign policy is also an early warning system for developments that are happening to us. Only those who see what is happening in good time can adjust to it early enough. Of course, it is true today that the major global challenges cannot be solved by a country alone, even by the European Union alone. Climate change, risk of terrorism, regional conflicts, epidemics such as SARS or AIDS, poverty in many parts of the world, drug trafficking or the question of safe energy supply are all about us. Important international organisations, which are currently dealing with these issues, have their headquarters here in Austria. I therefore urge you to support me in the security and expansion of Vienna as the seat of the United Nations, the OSCE, the OPEC and the European Human Rights Agency. [[General condolences.]] As a foreign minister, I would like to stress more strongly the contribution Austria makes to peace in the world. We help with our peace units to create stability and security in crisis regions. Austria is helping Golan, Kosovo and will double its quota in Bosnia. And that is also in the interests of Austria. Stability prevents refugee flows from moving. Stability is also the prerequisite for the development of the economy, and it allows these regions to be opened up as export markets by Austrian companies. The fight against poverty through development cooperation remains a political priority. It's not just about alleviating suffering. It is important to me to contribute to education, health and infrastructure. I therefore expressly support the increase in the Austrian EZA contributions set out in the government programme. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and its staff are the global network serving Austrians. This network is available 24 hours a day to every Austrian in case of a problem or in case of an emergency abroad. It is also a special personal concern for me to promote women and their concerns. In all foreign policy areas, because women are first and foremost affected by the consequences of war, violence and disasters, but also in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs itself, it will be important for me to encourage women to trust themselves and to support them in their careers. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! My strengths, which I can bring into this office, are a long experience, but also curiosity, joy and teamwork. Although a foreign minister has no armed forces, she needs co-compatriots: from the fields of culture, science, politics, civil society, the economy and the media. I thank you for the many good wishes and so many confidence advances. I would like to thank my predecessor Benita Ferrero-Waldner for the excellent work on content and for a well ordered house that I can take over. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I am looking forward to working with Benita Ferrero-Waldner in her new role in the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen! I will work as well as I can to justify your trust, and look forward to working in the government team and working with you all. Finally, I would like to conclude with a motto for my work, which I unfortunately owe to Professor Egon Matzner, who died too early: “For a world-open Austria, for an Austrian-open world.” – Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e2750	Mrs. Federal Minister! I have been in this House for many, many years, but I have not yet experienced such a greeting of a new member of the government. I wish you good luck and God's blessing for your work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The next speaker is Mr Arbitrator. His speaking time is 7 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e2782	Mr President. High Federal Government! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister, congratulations on your order, congratulations on today's convincing presentation here and everything good for your work. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I have already met you in many activities as so professional that I can allow myself to go into the matter without further turning to the points you have addressed. I was very glad that you made your commitment to neutrality and international law right in the introduction. This is very important, and I know that this is not just a confession, but that it will mean that we can and must present ourselves more in these areas, namely the representation of the role of a neutral, the function that a neutral can play, and as a defender of international law. Austria has a chance here that it has often benefited in the past, and this opportunity is also useful in today's time for a neutral state. We should make an appropriate policy, and this will help our country too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As far as international law is concerned, I am very happy with this statement, because we have criticized the attempt to invent a position of the middle between the right of the stronger and international law. We have criticized the attempt to take a middle between supernations and the United Nations. The commitment to international law means a commitment to the United Nations, also means the commitment to strengthen and expand the United Nations – and this is what our approval is. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We are also very pleased that you mentioned the peace initiatives, because with all the importance of Europe – I am still talking about it –: We must not forget to see the world in foreign policy as well. There are problems here that have to move and move deeply and where Austria is helping. Just think of the terrible disaster in Haiti, of what is happening in Sudan, of AIDS in Africa, of the global question of terror and the fight against terrorism – these are areas where a small country can also play in the concert of everyone. We should do this, and we should put positions there, for example in the fight against terrorism, where we must say clearly: It is good that Austria is participating in the fight against terrorism and increased cooperation, but terrorism must not mean restricting fundamental and freedom rights, combating terrorism must not mean that there is less democracy or less parliamentarianism, nor must terrorism control mean that media rights and free reporting are restricted. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] We need to see – a lot has already been said about Europe and the EU – that there are problems also outside the EU or on the verge of the EU in Europe: Cyprus, which is deeply concerned with the EU, Kosovo question, Serbia-Montenegro and the whole of the Balkans policy and also the unresolved Transnistria question, does not even mention conflicts that exist in the areas of the Caucasus and other regions. Austria also needs to get involved. Here it will not only come to work in the EU, but also to the Council of Europe. And I hope that you, Mrs Minister, have not forgotten the time in the Council of Europe and that Austria will continue its commitment to the Council of Europe and its renewal at the summit of the Council of Europe next year. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and the Freeman.]] With regard to active and common foreign policy: Yes, we want a return to common foreign policy. But common foreign policy does not only mean that we are identical on all issues, nor does it mean that we define a line of government and then say: Well, it's like you can't be against it! Common foreign policy does not mean: Fresh bird or die! . Common foreign policy means that from the outset one can be involved, informed and participate in the deliberations. A counter example of the government was the neighbourhood policy and policy in our region. We weren't asked, we weren't used there. Common foreign policy does not mean that only FPÖ and ÖVP agree, and the others are then allowed to make it known and say yes or no. Common foreign policy must really mean what you have said: that all parties, the NGOs, the forces of this country, are also involved with interested citizens. I believe that this is at all the strong, modern foreign policy of the future, a foreign policy that has only a few areas that are secret and are decided in the narrow chamber, a foreign policy that is to a large extent public, transparent, that is to say, a transparent, consistent, affordable line that has long since become an indispensable part of a good, modern foreign policy. That's why: Start You are stronger in this transparent foreign policy! Join Parliament, the NGOs, the public! I hope that you will find time for regular meetings of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I hope you will bring the political groups back into the talks with the ambassadors, and I hope we will all get the relevant information. This will not only be in our interest, but also in your, Mrs Federal Minister, and in the interests of Austria. Good cooperation in this sense!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e2867	Mr Spindelegger. His speaking time is also 7 minutes. – Mr Commissioner, you are on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e2885	Mrs. Minister of Foreign Affairs! Members of the Federal Government! High house! Dr. Plassnik was presented to the public three days ago. She managed to prove a high level of expertise in three days. This also shows international reactions to their order. It has managed in these three days to exercise a very great sovereignty in dealing with the public. That too is very remarkable. And it has reached third, I think, in three days, to be a very positive, sympathetic symbol for foreign policy in Austria. I would like to give you real respect and recognition, Mrs Federal Minister. This is an excellent performance for three days. I think your work is under a very good star. You have started this very well, and that is a good basis for your further work in foreign policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I can only stress the priorities you mentioned today. You have said that you will be fully involved, even as far as the Austrians' awareness of Europe is concerned, in particular, you will have in mind South Tyrol and our Austrian position for South Tyrol, you will have a major impact on the neighbourhood policy. I fully agree with you. However, you have also mentioned what foreign policy must generally be done for the Austrians today, and I think this is the end of this debate this morning. You have put at the top of what I would like to emphasize in particular and three times: Foreign policy will also have to represent Austrian interests abroad in 2004. This is the trademark and the most important challenge for us. We have a very good basis, which has been carried over many, many years, I think, even by many parties, even though this may not have always happened to the outside. This is an important task in Europe. European policy has become a lot of internal policy, but we have a great network in Brussels with very excellent people who are doing a wonderful and great job for Austria every day in the preparation of Council legislation. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is responsible for this. I would, however, like to thank the ladies and gentlemen in Brussels, who really represent our interests in the European Union every day in an infinite but hard work. I would like to say a warm thank you for that. [[As a result of this, the European Parliament has adopted a number of amendments to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, including those tabled by the European Parliament and the Council.]] Secondly, I would like to mention what foreign policy must do in 2004, namely not only to represent Austrian interests, but also to represent Austrians abroad. We must not forget that we have about 600 000 consular cases per year – 600 000! – where it is concerned not only to issue visas, but to help Austrians, who should also have a sense of security, that if something happens abroad, Austrian representatives are there for them and will help them very specifically. We have seen what is happening to Algeria under your predecessor: a hostage exemption, where high professionalism has been demonstrated. I would like to stress that this is an important task for the future: Austrians should have this sense of security that if they are in distress abroad, Austrians abroad are there for them to help them specifically. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] As a third objective of foreign policy, I would also like to set an important goal for myself: Austria to give security. This will be much more important in future aspects. This is a balancing act: On the one hand, one must have clear positions, on the other hand one must not draw the arrows on it. This balancing act requires a lot of diplomatic skill, and I think you have a very good basis for doing the right thing in the right place through your professional career. As the fourth one, I would like to mention that Austrian foreign policy must also afford to make Austria sympathetic, to give Austria sympathy. Today, in 2004, we can say that despite the events that took place four years ago, Austria is considered to be very welcome abroad, and many Austrians who are involved – we know many – who have left their mark in the European context have a value that can be seen, but it should be extended, which always has a new life. Austria is a friendly country and must spread a sympathy abroad in the future, which can only be useful to all of us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I would like to mention one more point. Ladies and gentlemen, the Austrian commitment to the crisis spots of this world. Through our “messengers” – under quotation marks – who are on the road as soldiers in the UN mission, we have repeatedly shown that we do not look away, but that we also help, that we also offer our good services, and this is of course particularly true for diplomacy. These are a few priorities; there are many more that I can't mention now. As a parliamentarian, I hope for a good cooperation with you. I hope we have a foreign minister who puts this consensus at the centre of foreign policy, and I am convinced of that. And I also hope for a foreign minister who is pursuing a foreign policy, who is also centred on what you connect as a person. You have true size, even from your height, and I think you will make an external policy that shows that this true size is also the subject of your daily work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e2972	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. 7 minutes speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e2991	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen at the Ministerial Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, let me say a word about Klubobmann Molterer. Mr Klubobmann, the way you described the new foreign minister that you said she was formed that she was sensitive, does not deny a certain sexism. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] Let me say this openly, Mr Klubobmann. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl: This testifies to “woman solidarity”!]] I bet you wouldn't say about a male member of the government that he was educated to be sensitive. [[New appeal to the Greens and SPÖs.]] [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I assume that the members of the government are formed and also sensitive to questions that interest the people. You wouldn't say that to a man like that. Mr Klubobmann, I have found your statements inappropriate to the Minister in this context. [[Abg. Steibl: This speaks for stupidity! Maybe you didn't sleep all night?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Your excitement proves that I have raised a right and important point here. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Steibl: Imagination is also an education!]] But let me come to you now, Mrs Plassnik: It's up to you to know that you're a disputed woman. – In today’s speech, perhaps not all of those points have come out – that was perhaps too close from time to time – where there may be difficulties in the question of how Austria is seen internationally. You, Dr. Plassnik, are considered to be in dispute at least – and I appreciate that when it comes to an objective and contentious debate: not for the sake of the dispute, but when it comes to a dialogue, discussion, various positions, talking about them and seeing how we come to common positions, I very much appreciate that. And if it is this call that hastens to you, Mrs Federal Minister, which you can prove to us, then I look forward to the future for Austrian foreign policy. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I hope that this also means that you, Dr. Plassnik, have a desire and courage to debate Parliament in terms of content – more than your predecessor had. You already said you'd like to be invited by us. We will take care of the offer and hold these debates in Parliament, but we will also fight in general for foreign policy as a whole, for the role that Austria can play in the world, for the global responsibility that our country can play in the context of the EU, but also in a broader international framework. I'd like to argue with you for this. Let me now come to a few points that you, Mrs Plessnik, mentioned in your speech. In contrast to my clubman, it is possible to replicate your speech; Mr Van der Bellen has not yet been able to do so. Mrs Plassnik, you have said, as I agree with you, how necessary it is to address difficult questions with the other EU countries in an open spirit, and you have mentioned South Tyrol, for example, and this has also been done by Mr Spindelegger. My question: How are you doing with Slovenia? The new Slovenian Prime Minister Janez Janša believes that he will be more committed to Austria in relation to the issue of settlement in Carinthia and the rights of the Slovenian minority in Carinthia. – I would be very interested in you, Dr. Plassnik, as a new foreign minister: How do you deal with it? Are you strongly represented within the Federal Government – and are you predicted to do so – in Carinthia, where a certain number of Slovenians live, and are there finally also the bilingual settlement boards already promised in the State Treaty? [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. One.]] The Constitutional Court has also ordered this, therefore: Are you going to work to make that happen? You're a Carinthian yourself! It must be your concern. Anyway, I hope you're going to get through there. You, Mrs Federal Minister, mentioned on the questions of accession negotiations with Turkey that you are in favour of opening negotiations. But you have said that these negotiations do not yet have a goal if I have understood you correctly. Mrs. Minister! It can't be negotiations without a goal. A result must be sought. The objective is probably to open accession negotiations. The question that is open is whether the objective can be achieved, but the objective must be clear. I would therefore ask you to make it clear here that the objective is very likely to be accession. The question is only open when that will be and whether it will come to an end, but the goal should be it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To neutrality. I am very surprised and pleased that even the Federal Chancellor in Alpbach has recently said: Neutrality remains. They said that international law and neutrality were successful. I hope that the ÖVP's zigzag course will be terminated and finished. Once she wants to go to NATO, now the neutrality remains. This hasn't fit in in the last few years. So on the issue of maintaining neutrality and using an active peace policy, you can have our support. Mrs Minister, a few more points. To the budget: I am sorry that you have not been appointed a few months ago and have also had the opportunity to negotiate with the Ministry of Finance the budget of the Foreign Office. Now you have little time to change much for 2005 here, whether it be the budget for development cooperation, whether it be the budget for the foreign office as a whole, for necessary increases. Austria has one of the lowest budgets for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the EU comparison, and this is not good for a foreign minister who wants to be active. Human rights, the rule of law in an international sense, has already been mentioned today. I hope you do not act here like your predecessor, who, for example as regards Sudan, has meant, prefers to negotiate behind closed doors. In May – quoted by Ferrero-Waldner – she said that the situation was not so serious. I hope and expect from you public criticism of human rights violations, the breaking of the rule of law, if countries fail to comply with these standards, whether Sudan or Russia. Open association is also required in foreign policy – not just an activity behind closed doors. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This active peace policy is necessary for Austria, and I expect you, Mrs. Minister, not only to stand out from the shadow of the Federal Chancellor – you have already done so – but also to take out your own accents from your loyalty to the Federal Chancellor you had so far. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Very sexistic!]] To make a real policy of peace, not to want to do little with foreign policy, and to have a real dialogue, I wish you every success.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e3136	The next speaker was Mr Bösch. His speaking time is also 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e3155	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mrs. Minister! You have stated in your speech that European policy will be an important part of foreign policy. That's not quite right anymore. Since Austria's accession to the European Union, European policy is no longer a classical foreign policy, nor is it a classical internal policy. They therefore present themselves to the House today in a dual function, namely as a Minister for Foreign Affairs and as a Minister for Europe. Mrs. Minister! That is why I would also like to address some of your concerns in this second function. They have correctly stated that the European Constitution will be one of the most important projects in the coming months, including at European level the Union's composition, the functioning, the relationship between the Union and the Member States. You will sign this Constitutional Treaty in Rome, and you will also be very much involved in the way in which citizens are involved in the ratification of this new Constitutional Treaty. We worked in the European Convention, in particular under the heading ‘citizens’; it was the main objective of us to develop a draft Constitutional Treaty which allows citizens to comply with these developments that make the Constitution clearer, which illustrates the way in which the European Union will use its competences in future, how it intends to develop its relationship with the Member States. That is why I believe that, at European level, we must also raise the issue of the referendum on this new constitution again in the next few months. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As a liberal, I would therefore like to ask you to do so in all the bodies, in the councils in which you speak. Whether this will be a pan-European referendum or whether we will have to find other ways, we cannot judge it now. We still have the opportunity to bring a Europe-wide referendum to the rails. We are experiencing the discussion of this Constitution also in the other Member States, in the Member States, which actually ruled out one, two years ago, that there will be referendums at national level among them. That is why I believe that this issue has also achieved a completely new quality through this public debate on it, and we liberals ask you to intervene at European level on this issue of referendum on this new constitution, which is a serious step in the lives of people. It cannot be that the political leadership at European level decides, moves forward, and the peoples of Europe cannot speed up these developments. Sooner or later, ladies and gentlemen, this would bring about a discrepancy that failed the European Union experiment. The question of EU borders must also be asked in the coming years. The question of Turkey's accession to the European Union is now also to be seen in this context. We liberals have clearly said that we are also following the report – yes, just after the Commission’s report! – negotiations on accession with Turkey cannot be presented. It cannot be said that a country fulfils the criteria for accession to the European Union, while we are constantly dealing with positive asylum applications from that country, especially in Austria. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] It will have to be made progress in this relationship, we think, and Turkey, in its present composition and in its political climate and in its political culture, is not yet ready for accession to the European Union. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would therefore also like to ask you, in the Councils, and also the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, in the European Council when it comes to drawing up a document which establishes the start of these negotiations with the Turkish Republic, to ensure that this open outcome of the negotiations is not only explained, but that it is also set out in this document so that the citizens of Europe also have an indication that these negotiations with the Turkish Republic will not necessarily lead to accession, but that it will be solely about clarifying the relationship between the European Union and the Turkish Republic over the next few years. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This will have to be model negotiations at the same time, and the outcome of these negotiations will also be model, because many countries, for example, former member states of the Soviet Union, are also trying to join the European Union; the sooner and the more honest we say that Belarus, Ukraine and the more so will not have the opportunity to become a full member of the European Union, the more fair it is from the European Union. The Union should have been doing this with Turkey for a long time. Mrs Minister and Mr Bundeskanzler! I would therefore ask you to make it clear, particularly in the key Councils at European level, that this principle we represent liberals – if it is not to enter into negotiations with Turkey, because it does not yet meet the criteria for EU membership – and that, when it comes to these negotiations, you are taking action to ensure that the negotiations are open and that it is the sole objective of the negotiations. To clarify the Union's relationship with Turkey, and not for accession. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e3239	Mrs Haubner came next. Mrs State Secretary, your speaking time is also 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e3257	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Austria needs a self-confident foreign policy, which is active and, above all, a good and peaceful neighbourhood. In order for this line to be represented, foreign policy requires committed and solution-oriented politicians who successfully meet the major challenges of the coming years. I mean those challenges that will also decide how Austria will position itself in its international, bilateral relations, but also within the European Union in the coming years. With your speech, Mrs Foreign Minister, you have proved that your line and that your aim is, and we as a free government group – I am speaking here also on behalf of our Vice-President – very much welcome the decision that you have been appointed as Foreign Minister of the Republic of Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But with this order we also combine some of the wishes that have already been mentioned in part by the previous speakers of my group. Especially for Austria as a relatively small country, but as a country with strong international links, it is crucial that foreign policy sets visible accents. I am convinced that, Mrs Foreign Minister, it will be your primary task in your future task to represent Austrian interests abroad and especially within the European Union, as has been said before. The focus of Austrian foreign policy is traditionally in the South-East European region, that is to say our immediate and indirect neighbours, who have now partly become members of the European Union. This orientation of an active Austrian foreign policy is a good and meaningful one – not only for the Republic itself, but also for the economy of Austria and thus for the economic location, as some previous speakers have mentioned. Our European neighbours are growing in economic growth compared to other Member States, and this is also a great potential for our domestic economy. For Austria in the heart of Europe, it is only natural for us to be oriented towards all directions at the close of alliances at European level. It is essential for us to use the enlargement for new partnerships within the large European family, partnerships among Member States that have the same interests within the European Union. And we often find ourselves naturally in harmony with our immediate eastern neighbours. However, it is also a task of Austria to work internationally for compensation and peaceful development and to contribute to relaxation wherever this appears necessary. This is particularly true of the Middle East, where Austria is Good reputation, and it is important to benefit from it as well. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Austria can build a bridge between Europe and this region and thus make an unestimated contribution to addressing crises. Mrs. Foreign Minister! A difficult and very serious decision will have to be taken by the European Union in December 2004: the question of the opening of accession negotiations with Turkey, on which the Free Government Group expressed a clear opinion. But I am also particularly pleased as a woman that the female team in this government will be strengthened by your appointment. And I also see your order as a very important signal that special qualities of women who are essential in politics – namely team ability, endurance, tenacity and, above all, dialogue – will also find a corresponding continuation in the so important foreign office according to Benita Ferrero-Waldner. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! As a coalition partner in this Federal Government, we will support you in your very responsible task because we assume that you are also looking for best common solutions in critical and different questions, but above all, you are looking for solutions that are good for Austria and for the people of Austria. In this sense, I wish you every good, good success, much endurance – and above all much recognition!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e3343	Mrs Bayr's next speech. Speaking time: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e3361	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank and in plenary! Mrs. Foreign Minister! The media of the last days have often used the diction that you will give a new conception of Austrian foreign policy your handwriting. As a Social Democratic, I very much hope that the chapter on development cooperation to be written by you is, on the one hand, a comprehensive, comprehensive one and, on the other, one that is integrated into a overall political concept. I would just like to remind you of our next item on the agenda on asylum: Asylum and development issues are inseparably linked. I hope that the development cooperation will have depth and that this chapter will be written with passion. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Her predecessor and also the Minister of Finance have also made many commitments of financial nature with passion at international conferences, but unfortunately very little has happened. This concerns both the content part – such as the 1994 Cairo Conference on Population Development – and structural determinations, as well as that we should increase our development policy budget to 0.33 percent of gross national income by 2006. Finally, in the three-year programme for development cooperation, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has found a deficit of € 226 million, and if the budget is...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e3394	I'd ask the noise level to lower again! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e3419	I'd like it too. – If you look at the 2005 budget, you can see that in the area of bilateral development cooperation only €1.3 million will be added. This means that you still have a very large lump ahead of you for the year 2006, which is about increasing the budget. In the medium term, the target of 0.7 percent is still reached; I am very confident that, unlike your predecessor, you will present a stage plan, a plan as we achieve this 0.7 percent, as some other countries have now done on the occasion of the World Bank Autumn Conference. I hope – and I wish we could, I wish you – that in the near future we can also take an important step towards coherence in development cooperation. It is not easy, as very different agendas of development policy are distributed among the different ministries. I hope that this will soon have an end and that you, as a foreign minister, will have the final word in decisions concerning development. This would be a huge leap forward in quality. This coherent development policy, of course, also includes a strong, powerful, well-equipped Section VII in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I am absolutely sure that all the rumors that this section is to be transferred to a group and the political section of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are certainly only sound and smoke. As chairman of the Subcommittee on Development Cooperation, I would of course be very pleased to see a closer cooperation between the Foreign Office and Parliament. I hope that in the future it will be easier to agree on subcommittee dates and that we can really come to a regular development policy discourse here in Parliament. There are also a lot of links between your work and Parliament. For example, I just think that we have a parliamentary group, consisting of national councils, of federal councils of all political groups, here in the house, which deals with reproductive health and which we have set ourselves as one of the next important priorities on trafficking in women. With regard to our eastern cooperation, I think that Moldova is crystallizing a little as a new priority country. It would certainly be important to stick exactly there and to be there preventive and to support this important work, which is partly already in the beginning. During the EU Presidency in 2006, it would be nice to have a conference on a parliamentary level between the European Union and sub-Saharan Africa. There would also be a very desirable cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, for example on conflict prevention. I think it would be politically necessary to focus on Africa, both in total and in terms of development policy, because this continent is in danger of being forgotten and left alone with its problems. Africa participates only more than 1.6 percent in the world economy, HIV and AIDS are out of control in some countries, and the educational offensives are also partly beginning to rise. All of this shows that we really need to implement the Millennium Development Goals, so that we actually realize what the UN proposes for this millennium by 2015. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! In the fight for more money for development cooperation, for coherence, for a fruitful dialogue between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Parliament, while turning to Africa, you certainly have constructive allies in us social democrats. I also wish you a lot of energy, visions for your work – and also fun because it is, I think, very important. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e3477	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Baumgartner-Gabitzer. Member of the European Parliament: 5 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e3495	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning, I would like to address Mrs Lunacek very briefly. If you call the attributes “sensible” and “educated” sexist, I can only say: I think Mr Van der Bellen is extremely sensitive and educated. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: He's even sexy!]] So, there's no difference. To call that sexism is to be said to be very exaggerating. Every human being can be happy if he is called sensitive and educated and it is also, whether man or woman. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Today we have the opportunity to talk about a new Federal Minister, about her office, about her understanding of office and about a new foreign policy. When a member of the government is presented, the person is primarily illuminated. And Ursula Plassnik as a person brings the best conditions for a good, successful foreign minister. On the one hand – that was to be read everywhere – is the one-bright tenor, the non-sexual tenor, that she is highly qualified professionally. It brings all the conditions, but that is very important: She is also very suitable from her personality to be a very successful foreign minister. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Very often to observe that the kind of personality, the way you approach things, is crucial to convincing in an office. Ursula Plassnik has many positive attributes, which have also been mentioned: It has a quick opinion, is dynamic and formed, it has – and this is necessary for success – in addition to these famous soft success factors: It is sensitive to the concerns of others, it can listen. But she also decides and can enforce things. These are peculiarities that are a successful politician, but these are peculiarities – and this is probably particularly important for us – that are important in order to represent Austria well in foreign policy. She will succeed, and I am convinced that this will be a great success. Today, in its programmed speech, it has clearly outlined its positions in foreign policy and highlighted the importance of a strong common basis in foreign policy. It has shown that it is a particular concern for neighbourhood policy and European policy. Austria has already had many successes, but must continue to work in this area. Another important priority is to bring the neighbourhood policy to life and develop it further. Today, it has opened the way to global problems and has presented its access to them. Today, on the side of the opposition, a truly great advance of confidence has come. This is a very positive signal and very remarkable. But I would also like to say: A confidence advance is good! But that a confidence advance should be the challenge for the new foreign minister alone, that is too little! It's not a one-way street. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] On the other hand, there must also be a welcome of the opposition and the will to accept the outstretched hand of the foreign minister – as she has emphasized here today. There are great tasks to be done on them, which will be excellent. She will feel very comfortable after some time in her new role – I am convinced of that! I wish her all the best personally! Somewhere we have a similar, a common history. I am pleased that she has taken up the office of Foreign Minister. It will not have been easy for her, but it is a really good choice for Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e3557	Next item is the report by Mrs Dr Glawischnig. Speaking time: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e3575	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mrs. Foreign Minister! High house! This is already a completely different form of government from the other day, but it is not illogical, because until now we have always experienced the government reforms and the statements made to them in such a way that anything has happened in the Freedom Party, then some signposts have been moved back and forth, and then Parliament has been confronted with, so to speak, a presentation of how great and great the government work is. [[Abg. Neudeck: That's what the Van der Bellen already said!]] So it has always been quite different from today, and that is not illogical either. [[Abg. Neudeck: Do you have a speech for everyone, or what is that?]] As far as the FPÖ postal carousel is concerned, I can remember, when I think back, not a single FPÖ minister who has been there since 2000. I don't think I'm wrong, do I? - No, I don't think I'm wrong. So in this sense, it's something else today. I personally am very pleased for you, Mrs Foreign Minister, and I can also say this as a native super-carinthian to a native super-carinthian. I congratulate you very much, and I wish you all the best. However, today we must not ignore or lose sight of entirely government work and what has happened in recent weeks and months, for only the last week has shown with which course the black and blue German government is on the road again at the moment. The abolition of two laws by the Constitutional Court, namely on asylum law and civil service, testifies to a very, very looser way of dealing with the Austrian federal constitution, to an organisational chaos and also to a very poor handling of international law, to the Convention on Human Rights, to the Geneva Convention on Refugees. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is still not a foreign policy!]] But what is particularly moving and touching me at the moment is that at this hour thousands of young people are gathered in front of the university to move here together to protest the savings measures at universities and a austerity policy in one of the most important areas of the future, namely in the field of education, research, universities and compulsory schools. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would ask you to take these thousands of young people seriously as a federal government and to recognise the dramatic situation at universities as such and to do something about it. [[Abg. Neudeck:... Foreign policy?]] If Finance Minister Grasser says that the universities should work out the scope themselves through more efficiency, then I really wonder where he has his master's title here, because if someone says something like this, he's seen a very, very long time no university from within! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is now the case that students in seminars no longer get in, but still have to pay tuition fees, that one can speak of the fact that the freedom of science and research is at risk. There are many statements by representatives of individual institutes who say that under the current ban, it is impossible to maintain the teaching firm – let alone the research. It's such a serious situation that you can't just wipe it out by saying: They are supposed to save themselves and gain their room for play through efficiency somehow! – This is cynical, and we cannot accept it either. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] On the contrary, there is absolutely nothing to be found in the budget of a supposed focus in the field of research, development and universities: We are currently at the Unibudget at the date of 1999. [[Abg. Steibl: Mrs Colleague, have you missed the subject?]] Against this background, talking about the need for elite union is truly a complete recognition of the political needs! Mr Bundeskanzler – good that you are here today too! – I ask you to take the Minister of Finance to the Canadians on this issue. It is not a question of doing so in the field of research, development, universities and schools. Here only one number: 1 500 to 2,000 compulsory school teachers less! - You can't be serious! I can't do that. Its answer is that Austria will not even lose its head in this area, but rather in the middle field, following the European and, above all, the international one. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek:...! Vienna has negotiated this!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What's not going on either is that one shifts from one pot to another, if both pots de facto have nothing left, namely that one simply goes here now and, so to speak, puts funds from the research area into the universities as an emergency measure. That means de facto moving a defect to the next, and doesn't solve the miser – on the contrary. I wanted to cut a third topic briefly, because it is also moving a lot of people at the moment and confirmed this slinging course of the Federal Government again in the last week impressively: If you see the newspapers today, you can read: 1 500 ÖBB employees should be forced to retire. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: 15,000!]] – If this is your answer to the need for proper restructuring at the ÖBB, then good night! It really can't be that you forced people with, I don't know, 50, 53, 54 years – with 45 or 47 even, apologies! – and thus seeks to introduce the undertaking in any form into a competition that is extremely important for public transport. [[Call the SPÖ: 45!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: With 47!]] If that's your answer, I don't know when we're going to have the next government reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e3744	As the next speaker, I give Mr Dipl.-Ing. Cheer the word. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e3762	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Glawischnig has been a Carinthian for the second time since I was a parliamentarian. It was the first time today that you, as you yourself have said, were happy to have “born Carinthia” that a Carinthian became a minister. There is therefore an association with positive, successful Carinthians. The second time you've been a Carinthian up to now was when you were constituency when you chose or reported to Carinthia in the course of the country election, in order to demonstrate that you would be electable. In reality, you have been living in Vienna for years and are also on the Vienna list! So you should leave the church here in the village. [[Abg. Dr. Glawischnig: The Kärntner Landeshauptmann is Upper Austrian!]] [[Abg. Oellinger: Upper Austrian Haider! Upper Austrian Haider! Goiser! – You shouldn't have said that!]] [[Call to the liberals: But he dwells inside!]] Overall, as far as your speech is concerned, I would simply like you to meet a little better next time at the club. Perhaps Mr Klubobmann may Van der Bellen encourage you to talk about education policy when it is appropriate, and not when it comes to foreign policy or government reform as it is today. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate the new Foreign Minister, not only as a native, but also as a living Carinthian. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Parent]] It proves that Kärntner seems to be able to take on very good responsibility, because when four out of eleven ministers come from Carinthia, this shows that Carinthia has a high quality of politicians. [[Abg. Oillinger:... that the FPÖ has a staff emergency!]] And to take due account of the reservations of the Greens: There are two women and two men – we have therefore also complied with the quota scheme! Much has been said about the foreign minister's qualifications. I do not think it is necessary to discuss this in addition. The liberals have given her their support. We will also give this support whenever it is necessary. Should one or another support be needed specifically in the field of Arab foreign policy, we also have representatives with very well-founded knowledge within our group, who can ensure that it works. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to take a short look at two former political sizes today. One will leave his office very soon for the future, and Mrs Ferrero-Waldner will be transferred to Brussels. There was a great deal of praise here today. With the former Foreign Minister and future Commissioner of the EU, I can largely join in the praise, but of course this is also linked to the hope and expectation that the Austrian Embassy will be carried even more to Brussels in the future, that Austria's lobbying in Brussels will be even more successful, that we can assume that Austria is well represented in Brussels. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As far as Commissioner Fischler – who is about to be Commissioner Fischler – is concerned, I do not fully share this praise, which has come from the ÖVP. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: We already!]] Nor do I share the view of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany that Commissioner Fischler has made such a very good agricultural policy, because we have seen very often in the last ten years that reforms in the agricultural sector have not necessarily led farmers to look to the future with hope, but many farms have been forced to lock up. A problem has arisen very often here, because it would have been just important – and this is the expectation that we had liberal or liberal farmers – to look at domestic agriculture, not only to look at pan-European agriculture, but in particular to see that our peasant family farms are preserved, that the rural family farms of the Alpine region have a chance, and not only the agricultural factories in the former East. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Is this foreign policy now?]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The second thing that has gone off to me a little bit, also here in the House, is the presence of our representatives in Europe. I think it is extremely important – and I also believe that this will be a very special concern for the future – that we have more opportunities to discuss here in Parliament with our top-ranking representatives in the Brussels, Strasbourg or anywhere else, to talk, to talk, that we also have a chance to hold discussions here in Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen! Although I know that this is not quite possible because of the framework conditions at present, even if the Rules of Procedure provide otherwise, I believe it is simply important – and therefore I am very glad that, in the future, it will be possible to set up initiatives in this respect, whether in the Convention or elsewhere – that we can discuss more and more controversially with our representatives in Brussels, that we can discuss issues here from the Government, but also from the opposition side, and can therefore also contribute qualitatively to a better understanding of Austria and Brussels, because the results of the elections of the last European elections have shown that in this area, the population – and that rightly – is very perplexed. [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. May. Molterer.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to make a brief comment on the question of Turkey. Klubobmann Scheibner and colleague Bösch has clearly explained the freedom of movement here. We are the only party who has an existing Management Board decision which clearly rejects Turkey's accession in the sense of full membership. We also reject the accession negotiations, which have a logical consequence. I would therefore also like to extend my request to the Chancellor – because he is sitting behind me on the government bank, I would like to do so live and on the ground – to conduct these negotiations in such a way that it is not a full membership that we do not necessarily negotiate and proceed with haste in time, but rather that we should consider very well that the interests of Austria and thus those of Europe are in the foreground. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: What are you doing in the main committee?]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e3924	Mr Klubobmann's next speech is Dr. Cap. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e3942	Madam President. High house! The cosmopolitan climate is caught up by the brutal reality. It must also be mentioned that not only can we discuss foreign policy, but we must also point out that there are student demonstrations today: against the hunger of universities, against the non-provision of €100 million, which would be urgently needed, so that only the most necessary ones can be covered. The Austrian universities are starved! Another important point is that there are supposed to be plans to reduce 15 000 ÖBBs, to destroy the ÖBBs. – This is the reality that we are in front of today! So we should not be deceived by this consensus climate: It looks quite different in Austria, and that should be seen in all clarity. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] Of course, this is also about Austria's economic location, about the economy, about employment, and about as much as possible action to achieve a new growth initiative. But now to foreign policy. Mrs. Foreign Minister! I understand that, of course, in a first opinion today you do not want to or may not disclose in detail all your plans, but I believe that Your time, of course, will be scarce, for it will be on the 17th. There will be the Council of Heads of Government on the issue of enlargement and, above all, the question of the opening of any accession negotiations with Turkey. In reality, this is a fundamental question that we all have to answer each other, namely: Should the European Union also be a social union, a political project with which the European Union can resist globalisation, the threat to the working world, the threat of sites, the threat of social achievements and is a strong partner where the European Union says: Yes, we want it to continue economically! We want peace, we want us to be a strong political partner at a global level!, but where the European Union can also be something like a safeguard factor for the many who are important to pensions and health care, where the European Union can, by its strength, ensure that many of what we have been fighting here in Austria for years and decades is also safeguarded by the European Union as a social union? That is the question, the reason for this is that we are pressing so much for consolidation to go before enlargement! This applies to all candidates, such as Romania, Bulgaria, Croatia and, of course, Turkey, and it is not primarily a discussion about whether one of them is already, or a year later, considering whether it should be 20 or 15 years – that is certainly also very important – but it must also be clarified which project is the European Union! That is why it is so important that the Constitution is finally decided! That is why it is so important for us all to stand up for the European Union and for all of us to have a constitution, an order, a regulation! That is one of the essential conditions for this. Therefore, it is also so important that the European Union is not just an economic model, according to the motto: If possible, increase as much as possible as possible as possible, as little as possible to regulate, as far as possible social reduction, and as far as possible lower wages! – and so that all that generations have fought in the tradition of the European social state is questioned. That is why we Social Democrats believe that it would be wiser if it were to be 17 years old. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But they're not that opinion!]] December would try a negotiation process – of course! – to deal with Turkey, but towards an alternative model, and to think beyond that of neighbourhood models that concern other countries, because we must remember that this European Union – you have said: Side by side with the Americans – yes, but as a strong partner, as a partner, who, because of his economic strength, his social traditions, is accepted of his political strength! – as far as possible, try to act uniformly. That is why we are promoting, and I believe that this is also a very essential condition for gaining the trust of the population, the confidence of all those who have developed scepticism against the European Union and who have criticised it. But you can't gain this trust if you just say: Yes, yes, we already understand your fears – as you, Mrs. Foreign Minister, have emphasized – we already understand all of this!, but the way continues anyway. You need to know: That doesn't have an open exit! ==References== In December the Heads of State meet, this is a negotiation process towards accession. According to the EU's financing and budget plans, this will be completed in 10 years at the latest. They must therefore face the people openly and honestly and give their pure wine! – The point is that this European Union should also be a political project, also a social union – that is, far more than what liberals imagine.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e4007	As the next speaker, I shall give the floor to Mr Dr Fassleven. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e4025	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mrs Bundesminister, in particular! Ladies and gentlemen, we are coming to the end of this debate. I would therefore not like to repeat all the arguments that have already been put forward, but rather to deal with the present presentation of the new foreign minister, a little bit with the course of the discussion in the previous form. I think it was actually recognised by everyone that the appointment of the new foreign minister is also an opportunity to make one of the most important principles in politics, namely, that if possible, a consensus in foreign policy and a common procedure, become visible. This, in my view, has actually tried all the speakers in different forms and with their personal means of expression. I was disappointed only with the last speech, namely that of Mr Cap, who, in my view, simply tried to do so, at an hour of foreign policy. It is dedicated to spending cheap party propaganda in cheap television time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Cap, I can only say: If you had taken an example of Peter Schiederor also of your party chairman Gusenbauer, that would certainly have been a greater service to democracy. As far as the appointment of the new foreign minister is concerned, I would also like to congratulate her very warmly from this point of view. I think it was a lucky case that this person was entrusted with this function. I would therefore also like to congratulate the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany on this. Mr Bösch has correctly stated that the current role of a foreign minister from Austria is quite different from that of 15 or 20 years ago. Through its accession to the EU, this function today unites the role of the Foreign Minister with that of the Minister of Europe. You, Mrs Plassnik, have the ideal conditions for both functions due to your professional course. They are a learned diplomat who has gone through all stages to the Ambassador, and on the other hand, they have also been in the centre of the political event as the head of the Federal Chancellor's cabinet, which is of great importance to Europe, where all the interrelationships have become visible. I therefore believe that you will be able and able to do a great deal for Austria not only with these characteristics, but also with the tenacity and enforceability already mentioned. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What I particularly liked is that in your first sentence, you have already indicated what it means for a country if it is not a member of the EU – your very personal experience in Switzerland – and have also expressed it as a very convincing European, in other words and in other relations. What impressed me was not only that you have focused on the new neighbourhood policy, but also that you have also made aware that peace begins at home and with the neighbours. A very clear word about this peace process, for which Austria can also contribute. At the same time, you, Mrs. Federal Minister, have made it clear that Austria's position will depend on what contribution we make in Europe. And I think that's absolutely right. We should not only expect the others to meet us, but we must ask ourselves what we can do. I believe that you, Mrs Foreign Minister, have also highlighted the relationship between the USA and Europe in a unique way and more than any other part of the discussion. And I think this is crucial: If we are thinking of world policy, we must, of course, deal with the US, then we must also deal with how the relationship between Europe – including a small country – and the United States should be – not only unilaterally and, because it may be opportunistic, we must now go a long way, but we must also emphasize and deal with the very important role that Europe and the United States can play together for peace, freedom, the environment and security in the future. At the end of your speech, Mrs Plassnik, you have not only pointed out your personal openness to the problems: I particularly liked how you have also addressed problems with regard to the Turkey question, but also Necessity that we also see how important it is that we enter into a very intensive partnership with this extremely important country. I would also like to congratulate you on this openness. This will be necessary. I was thrilled that you finally gave a very clear sign in your last sentence with the mention of Egon Matzner. It is not only about the sentence, but also about showing you that the attitude is important that the attitude is important that it is crucial that we also overlook the borders of the party that we make a policy, a common foreign policy for the whole of Austria, for the Austrians. I congratulate you on this!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e4120	The next speaker was Mr Pilz. Speaking time: also 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e4138	Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I share the respect that the Members of this House have given you with their contributions and with their applause, but: I may have expected a little more, namely a clear indication of – and this is an incentive for the future – how, according to Mrs Ferrero-Waldner, a not only serious but also committed new beginning of Austrian foreign policy can look like a new role of Austria. [[Abg. Steibl: Unsleeved!]] In recent years, Austria has had no clear foreign policy role. There's a huge chance in that. [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: That's what you say?]] In the next two years – and I would have expected you to address this a little more clearly – there is a lot to be said about us in our neighbourhood. The Security Council resolution in Kosovo is due to expire next year. No one knows what's going on there. All those who deal not only with neighbourhood policy, but also with international issues know that you have to do something in good time so that you don't have to do the same again. The following year there will be a referendum on the possible release of Montenegro from the Serbian State Association. Mrs Bundesminister, you know this as well as I do. I only suggest that, unlike Croatia, unlike Bosnia-Herzegovina, Austrian foreign policy is prepared in a completely different way and plays a completely different role. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is an Austrian chance. But that is not a question that Austria can solve alone, but that is a European question. Today, with your clear commitment to European policy, you could also see one on behalf of the Republic of Austria, namely that the European Union is already able to assume responsibility for security and stability in South-East Europe itself. We know that's all right. We know that Europe has the resources to do so. We know that Europe has the opportunity to do so. And we know that only one thing is missing: the common foreign policy will, the common foreign policy initiative. And this would be a kingly role for Austrian foreign policy, for these two conflicts in Vienna, Brussels and South-East Europe to begin exactly that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We currently have a major problem in the development of European foreign and security policy: that the military seems to agree easily on everything possible, that military units such as battlegroups are set up one by one, that structured cooperation is beginning to start in a military core Europe, and that a foreign policy that should be the basis of security policy is still hampered and suffocated by the principle of unanimity in Brussels, in the European Constitution at the end of the day. It would be the task of a European Austrian foreign policy to seek allies to improve the Constitution on this crucial point – and not always to think about who can do something for Austria from Austria in Brussels, but who can finally do something for Europe in Vienna in Brussels and elsewhere. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's the question you have from the ÖVP. Your liberal coalition partner, who has seen this again today quite different from you, should write into the small blue root book. We offer you to support a European policy of this kind, a policy that says: First comes peaceful foreign policy, first comes prevention, and then comes a common European security policy and a neighbourhood policy, which, as in the past, does not restrict itself to maintaining friendships, but tries to be there in good time and to work together peacefully where conflicts and bloody conflicts can still be prevented. I know you're quite ready to do that. If you do so and if you support European initiative in this direction, you will certainly also have our help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e4216	The next speaker is Mr Wittauer. Speaking time: 5 minutes again. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e4234	Madam President. Mr. Chancellor! Mrs. Foreign Minister! Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pilz, who can do something for Europe in Vienna in Austria? - That's your policy. Our freedom policy is: Who can do something for Austria in Europe? In this regard, we are deeply different. If Mrs. Pilz praises Mrs. Foreign Minister, then, as with any praise from the Greens, it always ends with a But. I think the Austrians should know, a but always means something negative. So the speech is already wrong. Mrs. Foreign Minister! Your statement in the “ZiB 2” yesterday – I quote: I am first of all a Carinthian, then an Austrian and at the end of European!, makes you extremely sympathetic to me, apart from your qualification, which is undisputed. Helping, communicating and balancing conflicts has always been a strength of Austrian foreign policy. With her nomination as Minister of Foreign Affairs, this extraordinary strength is continued. The challenges of the future: Enlargement of the EU, particularly with regard to Turkey, the establishment of a European Constitution, peace-building, peace-keeping measures in crisis-stricken regions are just a few of many points to be mentioned. It is likely that the inclusion of Romania, Bulgaria, Croatia 2007 into the EU will not be easier for all of us. But many Austrian companies, especially Austrian banks, are already investing very much in it to help ensure that the conditions are met when these countries are admitted to the EU. Austria is very much involved in the economic upturn. We also know the numbers. And in order to continue to ensure this success, good intergovernmental relations are also needed. This will be your task, Mrs. Minister. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would also like to say something about the statements made by Mr Van der Bellen that the distance of our citizens to Europe, to Brussels, is mainly due to the incorrect and inadequate mediation of our federal government: That's wrong! That is why the distance comes: too much bureaucracy, centralism, waste and the negative attitude – especially from Brussels – towards the citizens, the individual nation states. You can see this in the transit question and in many other things. I think it is important that the Austrian positions are very strongly represented, especially in Brussels and especially where it is necessary. On the question of Turkey: There are differing views on Turkey's inclusion into the EU. Turkey is on the condition that it is included in these negotiations. Our liberal position is: We're against it! A strong link between Turkey and Europe, but not full membership. I believe that this too will be a very difficult task. I hope that you will deal with these in order to enforce this Austrian position there in the negotiations and in the end. Another topic is South Tyrol, especially for us Tyrolean. There's a lot of conflict stuff there. Just recently, three dead emperors have been mistreated. Minister for Foreign Affairs Ferrero-Waldner succeeded in persuading that on 7 July, he was in a position to do so. An honorable burial takes place in Merano on November 2, and so these shooters find their last rest there. I thank her very much for that. But especially the future Minister for Foreign Affairs has the task of ensuring that, in this difficult area, the protection function of Austria for South Tyrol will continue to be maintained vis-à-vis Italy. A conflict is also the constitutional change in Italy, where the minority rights of the Austrian minority, the South Tyrol, are to be cut. There's an attempt. The position of Austria should therefore be maintained. So, I say, we also have a certain part, which is important to me personally as a Tyrolean. I would like to end my speech with a request: Actively support the initiative of the North and South Tyrol traditional associations that the tragender's offer for Austrian shooters of historical weapons in South Tyrol and Trentino is lifted! It is not European if, in cultural exchanges, it is not possible to carry traditional weapons at friendly meetings. And here I ask you, Mrs Federal Minister, to stand up for it. There's a petition here – I'd like to let you get it. This would be very helpful for us Tyroleans in maintaining these cultural relations. If that's gonna be a success, I'm proud. Our support is yours, Mrs. Foreign Minister. It will be a difficult time, but this difficult time this government will also deal with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e4311	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The agenda is exhausted. At the beginning of the meeting, it was already pointed out that the urgent request had been made at 12.05 a.m. I am therefore interrupting the meeting by 12.05 a.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e4349	I ask the honourable Members to take their seats again. I'll start the interrupted session again. Request for urgent procedure Dr Helene Partik-Pablé, colleagues in the Federal Minister for the Interior on the revision of the Asylum Act (461/A) (E)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e4385	We come to the urgent treatment of the self-employed application 461/A (E). As he has now approached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e4511	I give the floor to Mrs Partik-Pablé as an applicant for the reasons for the urgent request. According to § 74a para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e4529	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to recall what perhaps many of you know about what is known, but some of them are also forced to say that before 1998 the number of asylum seekers moved between 4000 and 5 000, in 1999 there were already 20 129 asylum seekers, in 2001 30 135 asylum seekers and in 2003 32 359 asylum seekers. In other words, Austria is one of the countries most controlled by asylum seekers in Europe. If one asks why the people are coming to Austria and why they are seeking asylum here, then one can only in the rarest cases find that they can show reasons for the Geneva Convention, namely: Persecution because of race, because of political attitude, because of religion, because of nationality, or because of belonging to a certain social group. Most of the 32 000 asylum seekers, who came to Austria in 2003 and before, are simply looking for better living conditions in Austria. They are so-called economic refugees. Many are not at all interested in the fact that their asylum applications are also being done here, many are submerged. The Court of Auditors once noted in a report that 42 percent are hiding. That means they are not looking for protection with us at all, but they want to pursue their own interests – whatever the way they are: Blackwork, transit or other interests of their own. Many asylum seekers – all of them who face the problem honestly – simply avoid the more stringent immigration conditions that have existed throughout Europe in recent years, by calling themselves asylum seekers, but also know very well that they do not have to apply any reasons under the Geneva Convention. That is to say, we do not have to do with people who are completely ignorant of the border and who only learn here that we are bound to the Geneva Convention and do not take economic refugees, but it has simply spoken about the fact that we can misuse the asylum law to immigrate into a European country. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] On this occasion I would also like to stress: Austria, if there has been real political persecution in another country, has repeatedly shown open borders, has always provided great financial resources to allow these persecuted people to stay. We have fulfilled all international conditions and contracts and have provided great human assistance beyond our legal obligations. I'm thinking about the Bosnians, for example. 100 000 Bosnians have come to us. They were not refugees who could have been classified under the Geneva Convention, but we gave them the status of de facto refugees. Of the 100 000 Bosnians, only 20,000 have returned to their home country, 80 000 of which have remained in Austria. This whole Bosnier action has cost the Austrian taxpayers 5 billion schilling. That is to say, it was a very, very heavy burden for the Austrians, but at the same time they knew that a pension reform is in place, a health reform and so on. And yet the Austrians have declared themselves ready to give up these people who have lived in a difficult situation. Austria therefore takes very seriously the principles of the Geneva Convention and all other international obligations – and is also acting generously. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The possibilities of Austria, however, go beyond all those people who are in their homes who want to free themselves from misery to take up and protect in our country. We simply cannot “do” the misery of the whole world in Austria, ladies and gentlemen! It's excluded! Yesterday, in the Committee on the Interior, Mr Posch, who was also concerned with asylum seekers, said: Well, the few “poor dogs ” who come to us can already be admitted! – To this end: It's not about a few hundred people, it's not about a few thousand people either! This was all possible when the number of asylum seekers was lower, that they were generous and said: All right, you're not real asylumers after the Geneva Convention, but we'll give you a new home anyway! – Now that it is 32 000 people who have come to Austria, as has been said, it is impossible to take care of all these people – even if the Supreme Court made a decision last year that even more financially burdened us, in which it means that everyone in need of social assistance must be given the federal care. It costs a lot of money. The Minister of the Interior is the one who has to carry all of this out of his budget. In such a case, where there is clear abuse, ladies and gentlemen, every government, every Parliament must remedy, must be prevented from using asylum, in the interests of its own people, who must finance all of this! [[Complaints with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP]] And that is not only the financing of the rich, but also the poor. We are now currently conducting budgetary negotiations, where every euro is disputed and every minister has to answer to Parliament whether he has acted properly, whether he has put the euro into the right segment, so to speak, why he has not used it for other chapters, and so on. So it's going to be fooled by every euro. In this situation in particular, it is necessary to pay attention to a fair distribution of funds. This also concerns the resources for asylum seekers, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The 2005 budget provides the Minister of the Interior with € 106 million for refugee care, asylum care, which is almost 2 billion schilling in old currency. That is to say, the population is very, very burdened – and that is why it is necessary to distinguish strictly between economic refugees and those who come to us for political reasons, for religious or racial persecution. Of course, for these, as in the past, full protection should be guaranteed through our laws and full funding. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It was the efforts of this Federal Government to eliminate abuses with a new asylum law as far as possible. The new asylum law came into force in May of this year, and we have hoped – and still hope – to be able to counter this development. In fact, the flow of refugees has already abated a little; not to the extent that we have hoped, but it is now fewer asylum seekers. I would like to say once again that, for example, with this new asylum law, we also wanted to abolish that someone in a country submits a request, is rejected there, continues to travel to the next country, makes a request there, is rejected again, and once again makes a request in the third country. So we wanted to stop “Asyl Tourism”. Whoever has already been rejected is quite clear that he has no reasons for the Geneva Convention of Refugees and cannot expect it to be recognized as a refugee in another country, but he simply wants to use the social benefits so to speak as long as it goes. And we just wanted to stop that. We also wanted to determine the deportation to a safe third country by law. It's been like this so far. Someone came from a safe third country, applied for asylum, and was able to choose in which country he applied for asylum. Ladies and gentlemen! Whoever is really persecuted is fleeing to the next country in which there is a democratic rule of law, and does not see in which country he has better living conditions, in which country he can better beat himself economically, but once he tries to get away from the persecution. As I said, Because they are not really politically persecuted, there has been this abuse that people have come to make the request in Austria, although they have already been in a safe third country. However, particularly taxing are those asylum seekers who repeatedly provide new reasons why they are being persecuted. They want to lengthen the procedures, they want to slow down the procedures, in the hope that the authorities will say: Now the person in question has been there for so long, now we just leave him there! – Asylum procedures in a length of three to five years are not rare, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. More than 10,000 cases are pending at the independent Bundesasylsenat and cannot be done because new reasons for persecution are constantly being made known. Most of the time, however, is being put on the agenda for the removal of the procedures. We wanted to prevent this with the introduction of the ban on innovation. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We want to achieve by means of the new asylum law that all reasons for persecution can already be made known at first instance. This is certainly not an unwarranted desire, for he who is really persecuted can also state exactly why he has been persecuted in what way he has been persecuted. However, we have also taken the so-called traumatisation declaration in order to protect the persecuted and under expert advice, i.e. those asylum seekers who say they have been traumatised on the run so that they can no longer remember the persecutions, should also have the opportunity to make an application in the second instance, which is why the reasons in the first instance were not complete and they still need to be supplemented. It is only that this right to appeal to a traumatisation is also exploited. Now almost every asylum application is with the appeal authority and has the content: I was so traumatized that I didn't know how I was persecuted or who persecuted me! I have to say that the NGOs are unfortunately playing God's part in this whole thing. In consulting the asylum seekers, they suggest that if one calls for traumatisation, one might rather have the opportunity to present more reasons or to be treated better. I don't think that's right! Minister of the Interior, I think it is also urgently necessary to talk to the NGOs about this. That's abuse of their powers! The NGOs would actually have to take a line with us and also try to separate the economic refugees from the genuinely persecuted refugees. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In this very difficult situation for Austria, in which we are financially burdened, we have to save ourselves, with the hope that we have reached a decisive breakthrough with the new asylum law, the knowledge of the Constitutional Court has come, in which various provisions – not all – have been repealed. But there is no reason to mourn. Those who have objected to the Constitutional Court have already, in part, already mocked the public; the Federal Government or Parliament had already passed a law which would not be constitutional. I can tell you the following: It has never been as difficult as it is today – despite intensive preliminary consultations on constitutionalities – to predict whether a law will also be held before the Constitutional Court. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] That's what happens to every government – not just this federal government! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It has simply become more difficult to clarify in advance whether or not a legislative matter will be held before the Constitutional Court. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Brosz.]] I would like to say to you, Mr Deputies, that: Professor Matscher, a very failed constitutional lawyer, once said: In seafaring and at the highest dishes you can never be sure of surprises. – As I said, we are doing the same! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Brosz.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In view of this In my opinion, the Minister of the Interior rightly feared that the number of asylum seekers would rise. Just because once again a provision has fallen – and that speaks very quickly around – more asylum seekers will head Austria. We must prevent this, for the reasons I have already mentioned, because, as I have said, it is not just about a few few, but about thousands, yes, about Zig thousands, and it is not about refugees who have a right to asylum under the Geneva Convention, because of which we have the duty to accept them, but about economic refugees. It is about those who take great advantage of our legal order for their own interests. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In particular, Mr. Minister! It is also about criminal asylum seekers. It's about drug dealers, for example. No Austrian understands that a criminalized asylum seekers will not be taken out of the country, but that they will remain in Austria. I would like to remind you all of the Geneva Convention here in this context. With the Bundesgesetzblatt of April 1955, the Geneva Convention was transferred into national law, and in this and also national law: ‘Prohibition of rejection or rejection: No Contracting State may designate or reject a refugee in any form into an area where his life or freedom would be threatened.... However, the advantage of this provision cannot be taken advantage of by a refugee who, for significant reasons, poses a risk to the security of his country of residence or who, because of a particularly serious crime, legally condemns a risk to the Community of the country concerned.’; Ladies and gentlemen! The Geneva Convention has really defined the principles very, very wisely and wisely, and we have incorporated these principles into Austrian law. We have the opportunity to point out that asylum seekers from the country have become criminal. Mr Minister, we have to think about it! And drug dealing is a serious problem that needs to be identified. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr. Minister! We have therefore made this urgent request because there is an urgent need for action. In view of the findings of the Constitutional Court, it is urgently necessary that we change the asylum law so that we design the contested, non-constitutional passages in such a way that they are constitutionally compliant – but without letting down our intention, namely, to separate economic refugees from genuinely persecuted ones. I would ask you to take our request seriously, that you make a proposal as to how we can put this abuse down – in the interests of the Austrians who are willing to grant genuinely persecuted asylum, but who are not willing to support those who exploit our rule of law!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e4759	On the issue of an opinion, the Federal Minister for the Interior spoke. His speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e4778	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank the applicants, the Freedom Club, for the opportunity to discuss the issue of asylum law and asylum situation in Austria – the situation of foreigners and the situation of foreigners – here in the High House, and I also welcome the request that we should find a common procedure between government, administration and Parliament very quickly on this issue. If we look at the starting point of the 2003 asylum legislation, when we start from the facts, we simply have to say that Austria was the most attractive asylum destination in Europe and is still there. Just a few figures: In the United States, an asylum seekers have 13 697 inhabitants; in the Federal Republic of Germany, an asylum seekers have 3 358 inhabitants; in Switzerland, an asylum seekers have 766 inhabitants; in Sweden, an asylum seekers have 574 inhabitants; in Austria, an asylum seekers have a population of 436. This figure alone shows that there must be a reason why so many asylum seekers come to us and not in any other country within the European Union. On the other hand, the rate of recognition for those who actually do Asylum is getting, disappearingly low, and it is between 15 and 18 percent. – That was the problem it was supposed to solve! That is why we have given ourselves a very clear definition: We must protect those people who really need asylum from those who misuse our right to asylum. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is the central point! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We must therefore clearly distinguish between the right to asylum and the path to asylum. That is why 95 percent of the sentence of the Constitutional Court is to be welcomed, for it has created clarity. There have been important parts which have been clearly confirmed here in the discussion often from different sides – I do not want to say, from different sides – and it has been clearly stated that they are in conformity with the constitution. We wanted a significant acceleration of the procedures. We have made a quick decision with the establishment of the first reception sites, and those cases which are obviously inappropriate, as well as Dublin cases, can be dealt with much faster. We have implemented the EU's targets, in particular the Dublin and Euro-DAG targets, and we wanted to actively address the current phenomena of asylum abuse. This means, in particular, follow-up requests which have often been submitted to the mere delay of proceedings. Let us take a look at the interim balance sheet! – After five months, we are allowed to make a very clear assessment: The first point of the interim balance sheet – which seems to me to be the most important figure – is: In the spring of 2000, we had 2,300 refugees and asylum seekers – today we have 26 000, ladies and gentlemen. Through joint efforts by the Federal Government, countries and communities, as well as by NGOs, churches and other organizations, we have succeeded in including into a system those who have been illegal for decades or in part for even longer in our country: They came in care, got an apartment. This is a major progress that could be made in the short period of three years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Second point: As mentioned above, the number of asylum applications is pointing in the right direction: In the first five months of this year, we had a quarter less asylum applications than in the same period of the previous year. This also shows the recognition rate: At that time it was 18 percent, now it has risen to over 40 percent. This also proves that, to a much higher extent, such asylum seekers are coming to us, who actually need asylum. And for this, the asylum system has also been made – and not for refugees who want to benefit from the system elsewhere. We have much more effective Dublin procedures: For the first time, we have more requests from Austria to Dublin Member States than vice versa! During the first five months of the Dublin process from Austria, we started around 2 300 procedures, four times the procedure throughout 2003. However, we have been able to do so since the 1st century. May only make 300 deportations. This also shows the need for urgent regulation in this area. I already mentioned it: With regard to almost all the provisions of the current asylum law, there was criticism in the parliamentary process and also on the other hand. If we look at the overall situation, we can say: We are completely right in this law: We are in the middle of the spectrum, including within the European Union. We must now see that we are going this way very clearly and very accurately. The requests of the state governments of Vienna and Upper Austria, and also of the UBAS, which have, above all, been due to a delay in proceedings, have not been successful in more than 36 cases, but in one case they have been successful, which will result in a great delay. We have been confirmed by some cornerstones of the new asylum system – and that brings clarity! – such as the system of the lists of safe third countries and third countries in this room, as well as the mechanism that, in the case of apparently unfounded applications, there is only more to be done in individual case decisions and the new system of first-time receptions. What we now need – and I give the applicant a right to do so – are some important developments which I would like to sum up on the following points: First of all: We will make a detailed analysis of the not yet available written decision of the Constitutional Court. Secondly, We will, of course, carry out an evaluation of the asylum system, taking into account the requirements of the Constitutional Court. We want to work this out and present it together with the Heads of State or Government Conference. Thirdly, We need further relief from Traiskirchen! We want to get there permanently to the stand of 1,000 officers. I can say, above all, to Mr Kainz and Mr Pendel, the regional competent, that we have now reached the number of 1 300. This is a very clear step that shows that we are working hard to achieve discharge for this region in agreement with the countries responsible for the quarters. This region is entitled to a discharge and we are very concerned about it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We want to implement the Article 15a agreement on point and indent. That is, the federal government has the responsibility for the procedures, the countries have the responsibility for the quarters. Of course, we can help where we can if there are problems with the quarters. And I would also like to say very gratefully that there are many who contribute to the country's ability to resolve its quarter issues. I would like to thank various economic institutions, such as UNIQA, Raiffeisen, but also the “Kurier”. I would also like to thank Mr President-in-Office, who has personally responded to this question. But I would also like to say a thank you to the Chamber of Workers and to church bodies who contribute to the country's commitment to providing quarters. We will draw up a common definition of the need for help with the countries in order to get clear, equal rules for all. Overall, it must be our goal to remove Austria from the above-mentioned top-1 situation regarding the number of asylum seekers. It cannot be that a small country, an 8-million country, will be the target country number 1 below 400 million, bringing social and social tensions. That's not desirable. There is a need for fair and fair burden sharing across Europe. Therefore, as long as there are no pan-European regulations, we need to adapt our legislation to those they have comparable Member States of the European Union. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] That's why I commissioned us to redefine the asylum law. That seems necessary and correct. I also say quite openly: We must accept the criticism of the Constitutional Court. It's right: This is the x-te novelle of the asylum law, and it is necessary to make a recodification. Of course, we must wait for the written statement of the Constitutional Court. I hope she'll be here until mid-November. If that is the case, we will present our first proposals for further development of the asylum system in November, in agreement with all those involved in this process, and also with the involvement of the national conference. I would then like to draw up a legislative proposal as soon as possible and move forward the legislative process with the help of Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e4926	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. The first Mr. Klubobmann Scheibner is to speak. Mr deputies, you have 10 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e4950	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We wanted to wait even longer in the review or evaluation of the new asylum law, to allow even more time to look at the practice and also the execution – I think, at least the first figures were promising and clearly point out that there is really an improvement, especially with regard to the recognition rate, which has shown that it has been better to separate the really politically persecuted from those who come to Austria for other reasons – but the Constitutional Court has made the situation urgent for us, with its partial abolition of various provisions of the Asylum Act, especially in view of the background which the Minister of the Interior has argued in a first public opinion, namely that Austria is the most attractive Objective 1 area for asylum seekers. This withdrawal is now a further invitation – not so much to the refugees, because it does not matter where they are going, but rather to the tractor organisations. That is exactly what I would like to say here: Our goal, so to speak, of deciding our opponents in all the efforts, an efficient, a sharp and effective asylum law, are not the asylum seekers, are not the refugees, but the tractor organisations. These are criminals who are trying to take in to Austria people who are not aylene because they are not politically persecuted. – That is why we are going, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I also say very clearly: I and my group – and I believe all of us – are absolutely committed to the fact that, as has been the case in the past, Austria – as it has been in the past – is all those who are persecuted politically and for religious, racially or personal reasons in their home country, as far as there is that support and must also be there that is necessary to help these people. But I'll tell you the same thing. I also turn against those – no matter where they come from – who come there with any negative slogans or hostile statements I would like to call into question this important principle. But I am also opposed to a social utopia, where one believes that in Europe and especially in Austria, we can make a better life here for all those who are worse in their home country. Nor can we do that, ladies and gentlemen. Political support for the persecuted: yes! But economic support where it is most efficient, namely in the home countries of people who are here, through development aid. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I liked it – we sometimes criticize you, but we also praise you if it is justified; and you have said something important today – that you have said: We must protect those really persecuted from those who misuse the right to asylum! – That’s what it’s all about. Especially when we look at the current situation with the 26 000 asylum seekers in federal care and what problems there are in housing, even in financial equipment, if I calculate all of this with a 20 percent recognition rate, we can see that we cannot give this 20 percent optimal support because 80 percent abuse this right. I was very impressed that a young mother, an asylum-seeker who once was interviewed in an accommodation, said that she was only always in this one room with her children, because she fears to leave this room, even to use the common spaces. However, she is not afraid of the Austrians, but she fears the other asylum seekers because they are exactly those who have quite different reasons to be here in Austria. And these are not always legitimate reasons that they have brought to Austria. That is exactly what it is, ladies and gentlemen: to provide support to the legitimate asylum seekers, but to prevent abuse! That must also be the goal of the new asylum law of the future! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Even the Court of Auditors, a truly unwarranted body, noted in the last report that 42 percent of asylum proceedings could not be completed because the asylum seekers were no longer present. They therefore knew very well that they will not receive a positive message, but, as long as it has stopped, they have taken advantage of the support in refugee shelters, their contacts with the tractor organisations. Then, when, so to speak, it went hard when the decrees were supposed to be adopted, they were suddenly plunged into the underground. This is also the problem, ladies and gentlemen, that we are dealing with. I regret that some important provisions have now been repealed, such as the ban on innovation, for this was also a means of abuse. An asylum seeker has introduced an asylum ground, then the procedure has been initiated, perhaps it has been recognized that this reason does not apply, but before it could have been postponed, this asylum seeker has simply provided a new reason – and the whole process has gone from the beginning again. What I am very pleased with is the fact that the third-country clause has been recognised by the Constitutional Court, because when it comes to providing a really politically persecuted aid, it is not so relevant, as Mrs Partik-Pablé said, in which country the asylum procedure is being carried out; it must only be in a country where a proper asylum procedure is allowed. There is no doubt that all the Member States of the European Union will be European Union and countries such as Switzerland and Liechtenstein – and we are only surrounded by such countries – are such safe third countries. Minister of the Interior! If we recognize this and with all these countries – I know, at least with a country that has not yet succeeded – conclude intergovernmental agreements so that they can really take back asylum seekers, then the decline in asylum applications would have to be much more serious and more evident than the 20 or 23 percent we have had since May of this year, since the in-force pace of the new asylum law. So, I think, there have already been problems in the implementation of the law. That, for example, the provision that, if you mention traumatisation as an asylum ground, you have the right to wait here in Austria for the asylum procedure, I do not fully understand it, because even for those who say he is traumatized, that is to say, that he has to wait for the procedure in another country which provides a proper asylum procedure. And the question of rejection directly at the border and not also in the hinterland is certainly to be questioned. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We now have a new opportunity through the repeal or partial lifting of this law by the Constitutional Court. I acknowledge that thanks to God, we do not have the opportunity to withdraw from the control of the Constitutional Court of Justice by a majority of two-thirds. We have experienced this earlier in other government constellations. The Constitutional Court, with its competence, is to review all our laws, and we then have the task of adapting and repairing them accordingly. However, we will now use this opportunity to discuss together all these execution problems and to close the gaps that have been shown so that we can really respect the principle of politically persecuted support, but also to prevent abuse in the interests of the Austrians, but also in the interests of the really politically persecuted. That'll be our job. We will face this task! I hope that you will support us from the opposition, because we should not support social eutopia on the back of the politically persecuted and the Austrians!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e5066	The next speaker is Mr Kößl. Mr President, you wish to set a speaking time at 5 minutes. Is that right? - Please. [[Abg. Kößl: (on the way to the speaker's desk) That's right! Yes!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e5099	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Before I go into the debate, I would like to say a warm thank you from this point of view from Mr Dr. Strasser for his excellent achievements in the asylum field over the past four years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The fact is that Austria has a modern, forward-looking and extremely human asylum law, which was passed here in this room a year ago. With this asylum law, we wanted and want the procedures to be accelerated. I believe that every asylum seekers has a right to decide quickly and quickly whether to receive asylum or not. And it is also to be clear and quickly determined whether this asylum application is justified or not. It has already been mentioned today that some 80 percent of asylum seekers come from economic survival and problems in Austria, and we cannot solve them here in Austria. This asylum law has been challenged by two federal states and by the UBAS. I am delighted to note that 95 percent of the Asylum Act has been certified as having an asylum law in accordance with the Geneva Convention on Refugees and the Convention on Human Rights. On these three points, I would like to point out that the ban on innovation has only been lifted in one point with regard to the medical evidence of traumatisation. Everything else has been confirmed on and on itself. Of course, it must be in our general interest that we correct the three points raised as soon as possible. It must be clear to us that with these withdrawn points the procedures will be extended and expensive. And fact is, Austria is still the asylum country number 1. [[Abg. Brosz: Austria is an asylum country number 1?]] The proportionality of this situation has already been mentioned today: If one compares the countries in Europe with Austria, then one must say that this high number of asylum seekers from Austria alone cannot be overcome. Of course, it must also be stated that we have extremely social and human conditions here in Austria. In particular, these conditions for asylum seekers were greatly improved by the Minister for the Interior of Strasser. I am thinking, for example, of the Article 15a agreement with the federal states. She's a milestone! Many ministers of the interior in front of him have tried to implement this article-15a agreement. And that is why it is also possible for us to accommodate so many asylum seekers. The corresponding figures have also already fallen: from 2 300 in 1999, the number of persons in federal care rose to 26 000! That is, I think, a great achievement of the Minister of the Interior and his team! Dear ladies and gentlemen! One has to say clearly and clearly here – and that has already been mentioned by our Federal Chancellor –: If asylum seekers who come to Austria misuse our hospitality, they will have no right to stay here in Austria in the future! That cannot be, and for that people would not understand at all!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e5142	The next speaker was Mr Mag. Posch to speak. Speech time: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e5160	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Minister, I do not know whether you should be pleased with this request, which has been made to you, or whether you should be in line with the intentions of the applicants. [[Abg. Scheibner: request!]] If this debate is constantly about “Asyl-Tourists”, as if this were a fine story, then I really don’t want anyone to want him to once in his life to become “Asyl-Tourist” and in such a way enjoy the joys of the host country. The language is treacherous in many ways. To Mrs Partik-Pablé, who unfortunately is not present now, which is why I cannot ask her either, it would be to ask whether she, who is always subject to the asylum seekers, wants to have a better life, perhaps a worse one for her, and whether that should not apply to others as well. [[Abg. Scheibner: My God! That's exactly that!]] But I come to the Asylum Act and quote that what is really said is an unwarranted witness, namely Hans Winkler of the “Small Newspaper”. In particular, I quote Hans Winkler literally, on the matter you have stated, that 95 percent of the asylum law remained in force anyway: The Constitutional Court of Justice has spoken about the government's asylum policy in an annihilation. ‘95 percent’ of the asylum law has remained in force anyway, comforts Ernst Strasser... Even the president of the Constitutional Court, known as arrears, read the Levites: It's a rarely bad law. In a legal area where it is about reliable applicability, taking into account international rules and respecting humanitarian standards, Ministry and Parliament have done a lot of sloppy work.” – Quotes. It is, in fact, the provisional endpoint of a long-standing, not very glorious chapter of Austrian refugee policy. If I do not want to argue that the current situation is perhaps a difficult one, I would like to point out that since World War II there has been a long, long-lasting willingness of the Austrian population to help oppressed people and that there has always been a very, very long, positive refugee tradition. [[Abg. Ellwall: There is still]] You were warned about this. I recall, for example, the constitutional lawyer Mayer, who, in the course of the review process, warned against the fact that, even if the state is sending itself to save and make its administration efficient, this economy of the state cannot be self-evident. And he already pointed out at that time that the almost complete exclusion of the suspensive effect of an appeal was unconstitutional, and that no further facts and evidence can be presented in the appeal proceedings, which would otherwise be very useful in the administrative procedure. And you have ignored all these objections back then. They have tried under the pressure of the FPÖ to make a restrictive asylum law to be the master of the situation and have overcome all the rule of law. However, as a representative of state power, they have to ensure that people are organized in order of their interests, such as international law, such as the Constitution and the Austrian laws. – So much to say about the statement of the Constitutional Court! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Of course, we know the problems, we have always insisted on the resources needed for this area. You are aware that the legislator has taken the form of independent federalasylsenate and the asylum legislation in updating the staff of around 5 000 to 6 000 procedural conclusions each year. In the meantime, it's much more. They also know that 80 percent of the rejections of the first-instance decisions of the Federal Asylamt continue to go into appeal and that almost half of the first-instance decision will be amended or remedied. Nevertheless, you have decided to ignore this fact and prefer to purchase the breach of the rule of law – on the back of the poorest people who come to this country, who are struggling with linguistic difficulties that struggle with traumatisation, who have personal difficulties that are persecuted and who cannot help themselves as easily as they do not have the money to enforce their interests, as your friends and colleagues can do much easier. The savings will in honor – on other occasions you don't take it so seriously with the savings will. If only you had given up a fraction of what this federal government, this black and blue federal government has been giving up for representation since the year 2000 for advertisements in the newspapers – these are amounts of several hundred million... – Other ministries! [[Federal Minister Dr. Strasser: No cent has issued the Ministry of the Interior for ads! No cent!]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Strasser: The Ministry of the Interior not! No cent!]] – You are the representative of this government, you have to insist that you solve the problem by means of necessary means. The question is: How do I solve the problem? Do I solve it under the rule of law, or do I solve it under non-compliance with the laws? For other things, there is no saving in this state – Eurofighter’s keyword and so on. But there is no money for refugee policy. I recall the precarious situation, the debate you have had with refugee organisations, with “Asyl in Not”, with Caritas and so on about the care of the asylum seekers and about this unworthy situation in connection with their care. At the time, in the Basic Supply Agreement, we agreed to a decent treatment of refugees and refugees in need of help, because this also raises the level of supply of the EU Directive, which came into force in February 2005, to a humanitarianly acceptable level. We confess to that! And we also say that this is a humanitarian milestone. Meanwhile, the Federal Government and the Länder have signed this Article 15a agreement, but only two federal states fulfil this agreement: Vienna and Lower Austria. I would like to reject, at this point, the absurd precepts of various national leaders, according to which the city of Vienna would include additional asylum seekers in the system. The fact is that Vienna is trying to meet the basic idea, get refugees away from the street and integrate them into the system. Vienna also takes care of those who have a deportation notice and who normally need to be postponed according to law, but may not be able to. The fact is that this basic supply agreement should help to provide for people and thus prevent crime. Furthermore, it is added that Vienna fulfils the quota to 100 percent. Hence, many can take a lead in this example. I would also like to highlight some positive points, such as Mr Reheis, who, unlike some other heads of state in Tyrol, has tried very well to put forward concrete measures. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Reheis Landeshuptmann?]] - No, he did it as mayor. [[Congratulations and bravado with the SPÖ as well as congratulation with representatives of the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Ah that!]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mr Reheis has been a mayor to inform the people about this, to advertise it and to work towards peaceful living together, instead of hiding like your country leaders, always keeping the Christian map in hand, but actually not contributing to it. [[Abg. Miedl: That's not true! ... more sheltered!]] [[Abg.==References====External links== Don't talk stupid!]] The Black and Green Government in Upper Austria is also called on here to do something to implement this Article 15a agreement, because there is still a small difference between the actions and the words. [[Call the ÖVP:No, no!]] That is why we are grateful to the Constitutional Court because it has finally spoken clear words, because at last there is legal certainty, as has been confirmed by UNHCR – and also given the words of Michael Chalupka, the director of the Evangelistic Diacony, an unwarranted witness, whom I would like to give you as a warning. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: They're getting more and more suspicious, your witnesses!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Then we already know how it goes, at the Chalupka!]] – I know we all know you have a problem with that. I quote Chalupka anyway: ‘These errors must no longer happen, the Constitution and the Geneva Convention must not be constantly trampled on...’. And: “In the administrative case ‘Asyl’ it is not about criminal law for wrong parkers, but about real human life...” – and not about asylum tourists, Mrs. Partik-Pablé.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e5365	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e5383	Poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! I am pleased that the liberals accept this issue, because every discussion on asylum and on the weaknesses, not to say, Mr Strasser's Blamage here in Parliament is a concern. [[Abg. Scheibner: We only did it for you!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: We wanted to make you happy!]] That's why I'm glad. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] On the other hand, you are doing it – and this must be said in the opening – with a witches' cross at the back, because the real reason why you are suddenly devoting yourself to the issue of asylum today is that the Greens have announced today to discuss in plenary what is going on in the Court of Auditors in the context of Parliament's disdain, with regard to Members' right of question and with Minister Platter's head-in-the-sand-stitch. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: So small as you! You're a bad boy!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: We will discuss that anyway!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You're suspicious and harmful!]] Strasser, if I say so shortened, is not even affected, but Grasser and as they all are called, former ministers, Scheibner, for example. It is really funny that, instead of providing information in the Court of Auditors, he comes here and then in a speech on asylum, he gives a lot of immeasurableness of himself. And that's where I start. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But you will not forbid me to speak! That's a terrible thing!]] I forbid you, my dear Herbert – we have been per you for 15 years now, and I do not want to distance myself from it now, even if you are sick of me – I do not forbid you at all, that is your right. [[Abg. Scheibner: I won't let you say the word!]] But it is also your duty to make information available to the Court of Auditors. That's what I'm pointing you out! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I would like to dedicate my 8 minutes of speech to the subject, but perhaps another word to Klubobmann Scheibner: 80 percent of the asylum seekers in Austria abuse the right to asylum because they are not recognised as asylum seekers. – This conclusion is so simple – or is there another word for simple, which means even more than simple? – and that simple end he pulls. [[Abg. Sburny: Beyond!]] If, according to the Austrian Asylum Act, 80 percent do not find recognition as refugees, that means that for Herbert Scheibner, 80 percent abuse the advertising of asylum, the application, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Scheibner: That they have no reason!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé:... after the Geneva Convention!]] That is, if we refer this to other administrative procedures – and this is the asylum procedure – that all those who do not enforce themselves in an administrative procedure always abuse. For example, if you get a penalty for shaving in road traffic and then object because you mean that you don't have to pay so much, but don't get through with the opposition, then that's abuse. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: So your comparison is really stupid!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: If someone is driving on the highway with 160, is that not an abuse?]] Yes, we support this, so we could save a lot in this Republic and that the homeless asylum seekers and those who are not in Austria. Have a roof above the head, no money to stand up for their basic care. That is why the European Union has been in a lengthy process – this process has been going on for many years; at that time, Minister Strasser has not at all been concerned with it, I think, under Lösnak and under one and then under Schlögl – to try to establish a standard in Europe, which says: In this rich Europe, people who are fleeing will be able to apply for asylum, to get a roof over their heads and the necessary food. This roof over the head and the necessary food the Austrian legislator, namely Parliament, entered into force last year with 1. May of this year, also standardized. Now there are massive complaints about the fact that what is right, what is so to speak, what is Austria's obligation in connection with EU bonds, is actually doing. Mr Federal Minister, I now come to you and to your comments in Replica to Mrs Partik-Pablé. If you come here and claim that there have never been as many refugees in Austria as you do today, I have to say: You once again do not speak correctly, not to say that you say the untruth! Mr Federal Minister, where you lived in the mid-1990s when tens of thousands of Bosnian refugees were accommodated in Austria, thank God! [[Abg. Scheibner: But these were not asylum seekers!]] [[Abg. Lentsch: It was private!]] At the time, as representatives of the people, we in the National Council of Austria often expressed our appreciation and our thanks for these assistances – and indirectly, so to speak, the Austrian taxpayer. This not only made the Austrians' willingness to help and mercy, but we all paid for it together. It was, as I said, tens of thousands of refugees. I admit, Mr Federal Minister, through the pressure of the European Union and the legislator and through your own initiatives, now you are trying to make up for a little what you have caused for years, namely that asylum seekers have been put on the streets, left homeless and have been handed over exclusively to the care of charitative organizations, primarily by church, but also by NGOs. To your numbers you mention here: It would have to make you see if you admitted today that in 2000 only 2 300 people were provided by the Republic of Austria, namely only 2 300 of the tens of thousands of asylum seekers in Austria who were in need of help at that time! [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Strasser.]] That is why this discussion, whether it may be abuse, is one of the most disgraceful of my opinion, which is now being held. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Minister! I can also say this because, a year ago, I strongly argue against this law and you have pointed out where the weaknesses are, both with regard to the novelle on the asylum law and with the Federal Service Act. I have argued that the sentences contained in them, namely as regards the needs, are non-reality. That is why I can now, if you want to, take the right to say: Do not complain about your own draft, which you presented to Parliament and at the same time negotiated with the federal states! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: He doesn't complain at all! He said he's happy about it!]] Speaking You don't come – and now the common between Straster and Scheibner; it's not just the initial letter – in this tone, don't speak in this tone in Austrian refugee policy, don't operate constantly with metaphors, don't talk constantly about currents, not constantly asylumists! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Here you go!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: I have always said: asylum seekers! Listen to me once!]] “Asylants” – a term that does not exist in German. You will not find him in any dictionary, in no lexicon, anywhere. This is a fight concept that has been developed to discredit refugees and asylum seekers, to discredit people who seek help, to appear in Austria – not by accident – by the “Kronen Zeitung”, and now he is gradually moving into the Austrian language practice. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You already put on your old record! You don't listen at all!]] He's always pejorative. He is never meant to be positive, but always when he is used – and now I come again to speak to the two gentlemen, on streeters and discs – negatively occupied. [[Abg. Kößl: Mrs. Colleague! At the conclusion, thank you for the human asylum law!]] That, Minister, is your responsibility now! I'll tell you: I am not among those who are pleased that the Constitutional Court should again become active. I think it is a blow of the Austrian Parliament that this has happened. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kößl: In the final sentence, thank the Minister for the human asylum law!]] Mr Minister, I am doing exactly what I have done last year, namely: I ask you – and offer this to you at the same time – to involve those who have expertise in the fields of lawmaking, the profound formulation of laws, in this discussion! Do what you asked Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé to do: Close with the NGOs, but not to combat alleged abuse, but to use the expertise of NGOs on these issues! [[Abg. Kößl: For God's sake! You're not going to vote for the abuse?- Oh, my God!]] In order to alleviate your “real heavy sleep”, as a newspaper wrote, a little: Now you have the chance to correct the direction! They have brought Austria back to the ground of the Constitution in relation to the right of asylum and the care of those in need in support of the opposition, as well as the provision of all ecclesial and non-governmental organisations. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I can only recommend, Minister Strasser: Take advantage of this opportunity! Often you don't have such a thing.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e5749	The next item is the speech by Mrs Rosenkranz. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e5768	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Stoisits, when you go through the country and talk to the people, you will probably have to conclude that you do not have to look for a pretext to deal with this issue, because it really burns people on the nails. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] On this occasion, if it is already the case: We would be very committed to you, Mrs Stoisits, if you were to direct your colleague-college Kogler that he should not abuse his position as chairman of the Committee on the Court of Auditors to carry out his political objectives! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Interlocutors Silhavy and Oellinger.]] Mr Strasser, I share your view that this debate is very effective here, and that is why we have also tabled this request. It is good that there is now an opportunity to take a close look at the asylum law again. However, before a good solution, we need a clear analysis, and, Mrs Stoisits, a clear analysis is usually only achieved with an emotion-free and cool head! You should say that, too. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The debate on the distribution of asylum seekers is partly dangerous at the heart of the debate. – Mr Innenminister, you know: One day about 100 people come to Traiskirchen. A debate on how we accommodate 250 people – now 50 people are brought to private quarters every day – does nothing at all, because after five days of saying that 250 people are no longer in Traiskirchen, there are actually 250 more people in Traiskirchen, but it is true that after Traiskirchen people often come only very short – and then immediately “diving” again. Traiskirchen, so to speak, as a lab station planned by the international tow shop. [[Abg. Heinzl: “Labstation” is hard!]] That's it! For this reason, 40 percent of asylum applications have been said to us, because asylum seekers “depart” before. – If you inquire in Traiskirchen, you will notice that there is never the same person status twice in a row. [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] So it is completely unclear who is there; there are only numbers, but the people behind it, we know only in part. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] It would be important and good if the whole House were to take a clear political will and support the Minister of the Interior in his project. – Asylum has been granted to refugees – Austria has always been exemplary – but asylum abuse has been discontinued in the interest of internal security! [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Miedl.]] They all know the figures on the rate of crime that is constantly and dramatically increasing. This too is open to say: There's a tow behind almost every asylum seekers. Towing is currently the most lucrative business of organised crime, has so to speak over the arms trade and drug trafficking. That means: Unfortunately, this matter – or, of course, of course – has a very, very close contact with the international crime. Everyone knows that people who come to us from poor areas are not able to pay 5 000 €, 10 000 € or more for the tow. So what happens? – This too is a fact: These people commit themselves to the tow organisations to work out this money here – and in which sectors, we see that just at the increasing crime rates. Ladies and gentlemen! By tolerant the abuse of asylum law, it is actually possible for international organised crime to recruit people here and keep working slaves. This is not something we want to agree with! 65 percent of the suspects in Austria are foreigners; many of them are there as asylum seekers. Mr. Interior Minister, you said yesterday in a press interview that of 2,000 drug dealers who came to the prosecutor in Vienna last year, 70 percent are asylum seekers in our country. That can't be tolerated! So what's to do? – There is a Community agreement, Dublin II, which states that a refugee has to apply for asylum in that EU country, which he first enters. This scheme is reasonable and is designed to protect each EU country's borders. This regulation has been agreed in this way, so it is obvious that there are a number of things going on, things that will undermine this regulation, because otherwise it could not be that we have to deal with a number of asylum applications here in Austria compared to other EU countries. Very briefly to this regulation, since the light here is already flashing at the speaker's coil: By correcting § 19 it is to be achieved that those who rightly seek asylum from us are already in the border area to reject. The term “traumatisation” is an immensely abused law, § 24b. – Of course, traumatised refugees in Austria who apply for asylum are well cared for. There is medical assistance, not a question!, but from this fact there is a responsibility of Austria, regardless of all the other circumstances that run under Dublin II! That can't work! Further: The Erstein hearing must happen at the border, and the refugee camp Traiskirchen – I say as a Lower Austrian – must be closed as soon as possible! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! The ability to act and decide on a democracy depends, more than in other forms of state, on the credibility and ability of the rule of law to enforce and ensure the protection of citizens. If it comes so far that individual people – such a case has already existed in Vienna – say they protect their business themselves, that can only be called a very dangerous way, quite dangerous development. Minister of the Interior, you have the central responsibility not to compromise the credibility of the rule of law and the belief in the enforceability of the rule of law. You have our support, but I ask you to: Mention and take real steps in the interests of real refugees, the security of Austrians and your own officials, which enable an orderly asylum policy! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[13:17]] Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e5888	Deputies Mag. Kogler, Dr. Herbs, colleagues and colleagues have, according to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested that an investigation committee be set up to examine proceedings in the area of enforcement which led to the type-approval of Eurofighters and the purchase contract. In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a debate be held on this request. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, debate and vote shall take place following the vote on the urgent request. The next item is the speech by Mr Ellmauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e5919	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear colleague Posch, what do you say to your SP-College Landesrat Ackerl, who for weeks called on the Federation to open barracks for refugees? Then the Trollmann-Kaserne will be opened in Steyr – and then it is “not reasonable” for the refugees to be accommodated there. For years, this was reasonable for 460 Austrian ground military servants! I can't imagine a more double-bedded policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As an asylum country, Austria looks back on a long tradition – and can be proud of it. Our country has always opened its borders to refugees generously. For example, we recorded hundreds of thousands of Hungarians and Czechs when they had to leave their homeland. We have also received more than 90 000 Bosnian refugees from us during the war of Bosnia: We have integrated over 60 000 of these into our society and have not returned hundreds of thousands, such as the Federal Republic of Germany has done. No country other than Austria can refer to such generosity. This, ladies and gentlemen, was also the 53rd anniversary. World Congress of the Research Society for the World Refugee Problem. Austria was there called “very good asylum country”. Addressed to the opposition: Please, ladies and gentlemen, stop talking about Austria all the time! I'll make it clear once again: Anyone who has a right to asylum will be granted it quickly in Austria. But we also make it clear: One of our main objectives is: Those who are misusingly applying for asylum are not to be granted asylum. Due to the expansive number of asylum applications, there was a direct need for action in 2002. The numbers speak for themselves – I will make it clear to you: In 2003, there were 32 342 asylum applications in Austria, 50 455 asylum applications in Germany, although the Federal Republic of Germany has the tenfold population of Austria, 49 369 asylum applications were submitted in the UK, 51 360 in France, and eight times the population of Austria. This problem of the expatriate number of asylum applications encountered this on 1 January. The asylum law entered into force on 1 May 2004. This led to a 36 percent reduction in asylum applications in the period May to September of this year. We can see, then, that the new asylum law is taking effect. We are on the right path with our reasonable asylum policy within the meaning of international agreements, such as the Geneva Convention on Refugees and the European Convention on Human Rights. In this context: Thank you very much, Mr Federal Minister, for the good work! More than 95 percent of the asylum law has also been confirmed by the Constitutional Court. [[Call the SPÖ: That's not true at all!]] According to the Constitutional Court, only three points are considered to be in need of repair. Mrs Stoisits! I still remember very well discussions with representatives of the opposition, the NGOs, but also the UNHCR Austria, in which many points were very controversial, which are now considered constitutional by the Constitutional Court. The ban on innovation has also kept a large part, only one point is unconstitutional: In the second instance, no new facts may be presented in accordance with the prohibition of innovation. However, the Asylum Act normises four exceptions: in case of change of circumstances, in the case of inadequate procedures, when new facts arise and when medical traumatisation was introduced, new facts could also be filed in the second instance. Only this exception concerning medical traumatisations was fixed by the Constitutional Court. I welcome the rapid decision of the VfGH and respect the decision, but I am also sure that we will work together with the Federal Ministry of Internal Affairs to develop proposals that meet both the recognition of the Constitutional Court and our commitment to the Austrian population and, of course, the asylum seekers. We will, of course, ensure that legal and rapid procedures continue to exist for those who are entitled to them. So our basic understanding is: Those who really need asylum should get it quickly. Once again, our goal: Those who need asylum will get it quickly, but we will do the abuse. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This is also in line with the Geneva Convention on Refugees and the European Convention on Human Rights. Our country of Austria must not become a preferred target country of international tow organisations and international trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e5958	The next item is the speech by Mr Parnigoni. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e5977	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In contrast to Mr Kößl, who is not in the Chamber now, I am very grateful to Mrs Partik-Pablé and, of course, to Mr Scheibner for having the opportunity to talk about the bad luck, the pleas and the pans of the Minister of the Interior. Since he is in office, he has had to take a considerable amount of withdrawals of law majeure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] I quote, ladies and gentlemen: § 28 of the Civil Service Law-old was abolished because of the food money, the new regulation that was then made was repealed; § 46 of the Staff Representatives Act was repealed; in 2001 § 4 of the Asylum Law was repealed; § 80 of the Security Police Act was repealed for data protection; § 15a Civil Service Law was repealed; asylum reform 2003 was repealed; § 54a of the Civil Service Act was repealed – and forgotten They are not the dozens of cases before the Administrative Court for party-political recruitment attempts in the civil service sector, which have been abolished. [[Abg. Ellwall:... stick to the truth!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is already a “remarkable” achievement! – and one thing is already fixed: With the planned Security Police Act, the Minister will land the next pan, the next abdominal spot! Mr Strasser should not say, however, that he has not been warned. A year ago, he was warned very clearly, for example, by the Catholic family association who said: "The Austrian draft increases European inadequacy. It contains... nothing brave or even progressive. On the contrary, he is still depriving himself of the legitimate criticism of undermining minimum human rights standards.” Or the deacony – I quote –: “To this end, there is a widespread departure from key points of Austrian legal culture, in particular through the massive restriction of legal protection and the introduction of force majeure.” And then we're going to go on: “It is necessary that every asylum seeker should continue to have effective access to a fair and rule-of-law procedure.” Ladies and gentlemen! In the FPÖ's request, tabled by Mr Partik-Pablé and by Mr Scheibner, the wording is also very interesting. There's about: “The Federal Minister for the Interior is asked to make the National Council the same” – that is very strange once, as one could have written in an appointment – “to present a government template that revised the provisions of the Constitutional Court as unconstitutional... Constitutional conformity”. [[Abg. Scheibner: Why?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: What else? Should we rework it unconstitutionally?]] Mr Scheibner! This could also be interpreted in such a way that, in reality, the Federal Minister was unable to produce constitutional legislation. [[Abg. Scheibner: Should we write in to present something unconstitutional?]] In reality, you have missed a sounding ear fig to the Minister. If one looks at the matter of law and the knowledge and statements of the President of the Constitutional Court, then it becomes clear again with what closingness was done in this law. [[Abg. Wittauer: That's no sluggishness! That's what you're taking back, Mr. Deputies.]] Mr Korinek made a clear statement: “The legal quality of the law is not good.” [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Is this a reading or a speech? That's not a free speech!]] He adds that this is “still apprehensive. ” – This is what the President of the Constitutional Court says. It refers to provisions, he goes on to say that there is no such thing. – So on any paragraphs that do not appear in the law. Federal Minister! It is very unfortunate that such action is being taken so that you have to suspend this remark by the President of the Constitutional Court. Ladies and gentlemen! The relationship with the rule of law becomes particularly clear when one looks at the statement of the Vice-Cancellor Gorbach. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] – For you, Mr Wittauer, to read, to think and to make a contribution. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shy: How can he read it if he does not have it?]] “The courts are based purely on the text of the law and take their decisions into account in the theory,” said Vice-Chancellor Gorbach. “Politics, on the other hand, need to focus on reality and cannot close their eyes to day-to-day problems in the implementation of the asylum provisions.” What do you mean, ladies and gentlemen? Of course, it is a matter of course that courts adhere to laws – that is what I assume! – but if, as it were, a vice chancellor questions this, and in addition, he believes that the politicians can overcome the right, and de facto demands it – and that is to be read from his statement – then he is certainly in the wrong place in a democratic republic, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I conclude by saying: Ladies and gentlemen! I can only recommend the following to the Minister for the Interior: The Federal Chancellor said: "It would hurt me if we could not integrate, house, feed and care for 30 000 refugees in an 8 million country without major problems. We must bring that together." This is what the Federal Chancellor had on 17 November. That's what I said this year. Mr. Federal Minister, go to work and fulfill the task your boss has assigned you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e6119	The next item is the report by Mr Oellinger. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e6137	Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! I am one of those who are happy and proud that Austria has an asylum tradition, in the past, which was actually positive for many refugees. [[Abg. Wittauer: Is it slowing down?- Oh, my God!]] – It is also important to think in some cases, Mr Colleague. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I am glad that... – Mr Wittauer, please, at least make an intelligent call for call! [[Abg. Wittauer: A little dynamic in your speech!]] I am glad that there are mayors in this country, whether black or red – there are many who are to be praised – who have made a lot of money in recent months and years to take up refugees – hat off! – beyond party political boundaries! Hat off in front of those mayors, hat off in front of those aid organizations, hat before those who have offered asylum seekers an asylum in recent years or have done everything to ensure that the stay of refugees here in Austria has been tolerable! It is therefore all the more incomprehensible and cynical when, when you know Traiskirchen, when you have visited the Traiskirchen refugee camp, you speak of Traiskirchen as a lab station, as Mrs Rosenkranz has done. You do not seem to know, Mrs Rosenkranz, how it actually looks in Traiskirchen when 70, 80 asylum seekers – often men and women together with children – are housed in a room when they have to share a toilet, a shower with hundreds of people. And then one of the Members says: It's a lab station! There's a lot too good for them! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] That can't be true, Mrs Rosary! That's pure cynicism. Neither the refugees nor those who work for refugees in this Republic, for asylum seekers, for decent conditions of asylum seekers. I don't think so! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I find it interesting – Mr Minister of the Interior, now I am coming to you – that you – and I have only noticed it so correctly today – have actually begun every speech with the sentence in recent years: We're not left, we're not right, we're red-white-red! - Where was that today? [[Call the ÖVP: The middle!]] It has already been tipped on to you by the Constitutional Court of Justice to regulate the early forced retirement. You've been tipped off the civil service novels, and you've been tipped into the asylum law. Minister! If you do all that by saying: 95 percent of the law is all right anyway! No matter if it is civil service law or the asylum law novel, that's too little for me. This can be claimed by the VfGH at any time: There are also sections that have not been removed! – What certificate of merit is it for an interior minister to represent this Republic and to provide Parliament – and Parliament is involved in this matter, with whom it is included – with documents which are in conformity with the Constitution and which are not unconstitutional?- Oh, my God! [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Strasser]] It cannot be a certificate of merit for this Parliament, nor can it be for the Minister of the Interior, that a change in the law after the other one that has come from the Ministry of the Interior in recent years and which we have debated has been abolished as unconstitutional! Minister of the Interior! In view of this debate, I should like to say: Actually, great that we are now discussing the urgent request of the liberals!, then you only confirm with it more or less – and that is the actually disappointing – that you are no longer the ministers of that which you left in 2000, with a very refreshing attitude and attitude to certain problems in part, and that you and your ministry are no longer red-and-white-red, but deeply black-blue. The fact that you, Minister of the Interior, are now saying, in connection with this proposal, that we are discussing it now is ridiculous! [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Strasser]] – There are points that we do not need to discuss, because they are already included in the human rights convention that we are supposed to hold – we do not need to discuss about it – or in laws that we already have and whose parts have not been repealed. What are we discussing? What is the point of the discussion? . It is obviously not a question of protecting some urgency here now, because the Minister is independent of your urgent request, Mr Scheibner, anyway from the VfGH to fix this law. [[Abg. Scheibner: There you can never make a urgent request!]] I am not going to have to ask a minister, who has just come back from the Constitutional Court for a bad law, to fix this bad and unconstitutional law. [[Abg. Scheibner: But your requests are always urgent!]] Of course, he must repair this, but hopefully in a way that is at least constitutional, Mr Scheibner. [[Abg. Scheibner: You don't take yourself seriously anymore!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We will not have to ask him to repair the Constitution. That would be like absurdity and grotesques. No, it's not about it, but it's about the wind you're talking about within this application... – I'm glad to say, sometimes teaching is probably useful, even if you don't understand it, and that's the problem. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Professor of Oillingers!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: You certainly don't decide that! You certainly don't decide what I understand and what not! That's all right!]] But you need it because such laws as you are putting them, which are broken down in central provisions, really only bring you together, Mr Scheuch! Nevertheless, Mr Scheuch, I would like to come to the wind you are trying to produce. The application mentions that there are two federal states that overfill the quota – Vienna and Lower Austria. In fact, I thought that Vienna and Lower Austria should be praised for it; a Member of the SPÖ has also made it. What are you doing in the application? – It’s “problematic” that Vienna picks up so many. “Problematic” is that! And the Minister is not the one who says in the debate: No, I am in favour of Vienna taking up the asylum seeker who is in need of help and taking them away from the street – and that is the crucial point – to provide them with accommodation so that they are not on the road. But it is probably too little – we all know that – that the asylum seekers should be allowed to work here too, that would make sense! Then we would finally have solved a lot of problems. [[Federal Minister Dr. Strasser: You do not know the law, Mr. Deputies!]] If we were not only to take them away from the street, but also to offer them humane, legal conditions if we could provide them with care, we would probably have many of the problems that exist and about which we should not be silent, not in the form. That's the point. What are you doing in your application? – They say: It is precisely this attitude of Vienna, but also of Lower Austria, which does so, is the problematic attitude. That's what you're criticizing! And I'm surprised that none of the ÖVP delegates has risen here so far and said: We don't like that! Whether it is against Vienna or against Lower Austria, we are glad and proud that Vienna and Lower Austria fulfil their obligations under the Article-15a Agreement. But what are you doing about the ÖVP? – You are silent about what is being done here with this request to wind. [[Abg. Miedl: We're going to say something about it!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Not every day yet!]] – Not every day of the evening, yes, thank God. I am convinced, Mr Scheuch, that the Austrians think substantially more liberal and humane in the essential points than the FPÖ here is to the Austrians. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is also evident in the constant willingness to help. Only if you want to make a bad mood – and you do that, you try it again with regard to these two federal states – can you not be surprised. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] Federal Minister! What is disturbing is that you are talking about asylum abuse, although the Asylum Act has been misused by the legislator. [[Abg. Scheibner: The Rules of Procedure do not apply to the Greens at all, do they? – Not in committee and not in plenary!]] Not the asylum seekers, nor the civilians, are the problem, but a policy that you have to answer, but also you who disregard human rights and also the Constitution.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e6375	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e6393	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! In order to give the honor right at the beginning of my statements of truth: My colleague Barbara Rosenkranz did not mention that the people in Traiskirchen found a lab station there. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] She didn't do that! I clearly note that she spoke about it: When towed people come to Traiskirchen, they sometimes use this facility as a lab to be dragged either further as an illegal or as an illegal. I would like to make this clear. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] As regards Mr Parnigoni, who has tried the Constitutional Court or the abolition of a number of precisely three points of this asylum law by the Constitutional Court. I should like to remind you of how it was in your time of government in practice: Whenever you were not sure, you made a Constitutional Law or a Constitutional Provision out of it, which did not give the Constitutional Court the possibility to repeal a law. That's what you made abundant use of at the time. I would also like to point out that these are three points that have already been referred to as decided, and these three points are parts which the Constitutional Court has withdrawn. It is important to me that Austria was always a country that was open to political, racial, religiously persecuted, to people who were persecuted in their home country who had problems and came to us. Austria is still open and will remain. [[Abg. Oillingers: Let them doubt you!]] But, ladies and gentlemen, what Austria is not: Austria is not an immigration country! A clear conclusion can be drawn from the comparison of the number of asylum seekers we find here in Austria, with the figures of other countries, such as France, Great Britain and Germany. Compare Germany and Austria: Germany has about ten times the population of Austria. 64 percent of the number of asylum seekers, the asylum seekers in Germany, we have here in Austria. That is, we only compared 10 percent of the population with the Federal Republic of Germany, but we have 64 percent of asylum seekers, as measured by the number we find in Germany. Austria is clearly a major target country for asylum seekers and – ladies and gentlemen, you need to take note of this – for economic refugees, so for those who want to improve their living conditions for themselves. By the way, Mr Federal Minister, the large number of people who have been diverted – this is a term that is obviously not known in your ministry, because no answer has been given to a question of how many people have been submerged – but I think it should be known here at least in the house, which is what is meant by people who have been diverted – the large number of those who have been diverted still in themselves favour of the number of those whom we identify as asylum seekers, otherwise it would be even higher. It would be interesting, however, how high this number actually is. Since 1998, the number of asylum seekers has increased from 5 000 in 1998 to 32 000 in 2003. In any event, this leaves me no doubt that there is a corresponding abuse here that these more than 32 000 persons are not asylum seekers in accordance with the Geneva Convention on Refugees. Dear ladies and gentlemen! You, Federal Minister, said we need a discharge for Traiskirchen. I think we also need a discharge for Thalham, we also need a discharge for the population in St. George. That is why it seems appropriate to re-convert the first reception centre into a federal service office as it has been before and has also worked. I don't make any sense of it, Minister of State, that it was always a call for the freedom to set up first reception centres near the border. One important concern is the identification or medical examination. A ban in the first reception centre, regardless of whether or not Thalham would be appropriate, especially if there is no cooperative work here – to protect the population and to protect the other, the real asylum seekers. There are counter-arguments that are constantly ringing, certain humanitarian reasons would not allow that. I think that humanitarian reasons should also apply to the population. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Austria's top position in the economic sector, in the area of the labour market in Europe, is desirable, and we are delighted that we have it. The fact that we have the top position as a target country for asylum seekers is something I consider to be ineligible, and we should clearly regulate this in the next novel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e6455	The next speaker was Mr Kainz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e6474	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Austria has a great tradition in asylum policy – not as Mr Öllinger said. I think we can be proud that we are a country that is well aware of and also exercises its responsibility. The ÖVP, I believe, all the parties here in the House confess to the fact that someone who is persecuted politically, but also for religious or racial reasons, receives asylum in our country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As mayor of the market municipality Pfaffstätten and as a regional MP whose neighboring municipality is Traiskirchen, I know very well about the situation, but also about the problems that are currently present around the first recording center of Traiskirchen. The history of the Traiskirchen refugee camp dates back to 1954. 1956: the first major wave of asylum in the context of the Hungarian crisis. There were 3 000 asylum seekers in the Polish crisis, more than 3 000 asylum seekers who sought reception in Traiskirchen and camped in but also around the camp. Since the establishment of the Traiskirchen refugee camp in 1954, with the exception of two ÖVP Federal Ministers, SPÖ ministers have always been responsible for the situation in the city of Traiskirchen and the region. However, I also believe that the entire solidarity should be demonstrated with the Traiskirchen population that has been burdened for decades. In recent years, there has been a lot of moving, including a lot that has contributed to improving the situation. The amendment of the Asylum Act is undoubtedly one of these points. We have created a modern, decent, but above all forward-looking law, which also provides answers to the new framework conditions in our country, in Europe and beyond. I also believe that, in particular through bilateral agreements, a faster rejection of the so-called Dublin II cases must continue to be forced. We also have to consider – this is a very concrete request and has already been said here several times – for those asylum seekers who make great use of our hospitality, in the context of legal possibilities. I am speaking specifically to those asylum seekers who become criminal and practice criminal behaviour beyond a certain degree: Drug dealers, property offences, just to mention two concrete examples. However, I also say that very many or some asylum seekers enter our country under the cover of asylum and make very conscious criminal acts, with which all other asylum seekers are then equated in Bausch and Arches. I believe that the new asylum law is right, the right way in the right direction, if one assumes that the number of asylum applications is going down significantly and that those who come to our country for the reasons I have mentioned above should continue to receive asylum applications. I would also like to thank Federal Minister Strasser for the way that has already taken, and invite everyone in the house to support him and us to continue this path. However, as a direct representative, I exhort and also call for the solidarity of the federal states in order to significantly improve the situation in Traiskirchen. We must succeed in distributing the asylum seekers, who are currently in Traiskirchen, to the federal states. Lower Austria is a very exemplary route with over 5,000 asylum seekers, whom we have in our country in basic care. Vienna is – and I can say this critically – very generously concerned with who should come into federal care and who is not. The proposal of the Council of State Plank – every community a refugee family – is certainly not to be taken literally, but with one he is in principle right: that we need manageable units to be able to properly integrate asylum seekers and thus the relationship between the inhabitants and the asylum seekers is true. There is no doubt that for decades this relationship has not been true in Traiskirchen. But I also think that we should continue to improve the framework conditions in this area, and I would also like to thank Mr Strasser at this point, because we have been involved for some time now in these framework conditions which the Traiskirchener Bevoel I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. We are here on a very right and good path. A third point to conclude: In addition to improving the framework conditions, the path must be to create additional first-level reception centres in Austria in order to ensure above all one thing: to relieve the population of the municipality of Traiskirchen and the whole region and to offer decent and good accommodation to those seeking asylum in Austria. It is about making a reasonable and good asylum policy for Austria. That means we have to continue the path that has been taken so far. Joint action is needed, joint cooperation is needed, and also the reluctance of party policy behind policy on matters. This is what I would like to ask of all four parliamentary parties in this area for the benefit of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e6555	The next speaker was Mrs Hlavac. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e6573	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The issue of asylum is a very serious issue, which calls for an objective debate, and I therefore very much do not like what I have heard here about subversive, but sometimes also quite outright, statements that are false. Asylum seekers and criminals are simply equated here. We have heard from Mrs Rosenkranz a debate which is indescribable. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] She claimed that 65 percent of criminals are foreigners. – That’s just not true! There are claims here that are not true. [[Abg. Miedl: She didn't say that!]] We are aware of the problems. Of course, there are asylum seekers who are going to be criminal, there are asylum seekers who cannot give sufficient reason, but we have to be clear, it is a very delicate issue. It is not about cases, it is about people, and therefore each individual case needs to be carefully reviewed, and each individual applicant has the right to a fair procedure. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Both in the request and now in the debate, Vienna has been blamed, which I cannot understand. In addition to Lower Austria, Vienna is the only federal country that fulfils the quota. Vienna fulfils the quota more than it would have to; in Vienna, the target number is 5 037 people, i.e. we have added more than 4,000 people, as opposed to other federal states. For example, I see Carinthia: minus 686 people, Tyrol: minus 964 people, Styria: minus 528 people, Upper Austria: minus 856 people. So what would it be if Vienna did not carry out this task? – People would be standing on the street, and that is something we cannot accept. We in Vienna confess our social responsibility! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And when it is said that we are easily dealing with those who are in need of protection, I must also say that I do not understand. Vienna is trying to get people out of illegality. Vienna is therefore taking up asylum seekers and refugees to prevent them from immersing into illegality. Mr Minister, I do not understand this if you say that people and groups of persons have been found in the system, which, in your view, do not have the criterion of need of help. That would be to be clear, you said with a threatening undertone. We'll actually clear this up. The head of state of Vienna will insist at the next national conference that this will be clarified, because as the state of Vienna, we do not like it that we are subject to the fact that we groups of persons... – Yes! [[Federal Minister Dr. Strasser: We must clarify this too!]] As I said, Mr Landeshuptmann will encourage this and ask for it, because it is not a question of Vienna being subordinated to simply smuggle people into the system. That is not the case! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Then I would like to comment on something that several speakers of the ÖVP have said, namely that 95 percent of the law is constitutional. – That’s an improper argument! It's not about quantity, it's about quality! It is about the fact that there has actually been a repeal in key areas of the law: in connection with the prohibition of innovation, in connection with the suspensive effect of legal remedies, in connection with the suspension. These are very central points, and therefore one cannot simply say that the law is generally good anyway. Like other colleagues, I would like to quote the President of the Constitutional Court, who said: “The legal quality of the law is not good”, and it is rather arrears to be formulated. And he went on to say: A systematically bad law makes more work. This, I believe, is also part of the problem: that a law has been made here, which makes it difficult for the authority to work, which causes the UBAS to be so overburdened. I think that there should be preparatory work in several areas, that more should be done internationally. Now you have the chance to change that. – I hope it will happen together, because asylum law is a fundamental human right, and we will not allow it to be questioned.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e6647	Mr Brosz has been mentioned as the next speaker. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e6666	Mr President. Federal Minister! As a member of the parliament, who comes from the region and has been able to pursue Traiskirchen for years, let me say that there is an interesting economic situation in Traiskirchen: In the years 1999/2000 there were very large protests, in 2004 they are now again. Interestingly, in the spring of next year, the municipal council elections in Lower Austria – which I am now less addressing to you, Minister of State, because you have little to do with it – must be noted that whenever the elections begin, and when it comes to voting, the protest and the call in Traiskirchen are becoming particularly great. In this context, a comment on the SPÖ's colleagues when talking about crime: Look at how the mayor of Traiskirchen Knotzer argues about your group! Try to do some educational work there as well! Especially in Traiskirchen, the responsible city politicians have some share in the extent to which the situation there is currently escalating. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The organized crime that has been raised here, of course, is there. The question is: In what context is this crime to be committed? And: In what context is this directly related to the asylum seekers? The Greens have – for us as well new – tried to talk to services, especially in the surrounding area, especially in Lower Austria, with very many Gendarmerie district offices, and to ask about how the assessment of development is. It is undisputed that the number of burglary thefts in the region in the south of Vienna has increased. The answer to this was a relatively simple: On the one hand, this is a region whose population is very wealthy, on the other hand, it seems to be attractive to criminals due to its transport connection. But everyone said that the conclusion to the asylum seekers was simply inadmissible, because this was equally true for the area of Wiener Neustadt, for the area of Vienna-Umgebung. To say, in Traiskirchen, crime is higher, in the sense of burglary, organized crime, because there are asylum seekers: Everyone in the police, in the Gendarmerie there, who has an idea, will tell you that this is not true. I find that remarkable, although the local politicians – the colleague Kainz has done so before – make this connection so relatively salopp. It is true that we have a crime problem, yes, but I am already asking the question: Why, then, have we approved this reduction of staff at the departments? [[Abg. Kainz: Increase, colleague Brosz!]] I'm not talking about Traiskirchen now, I'm talking about the surroundings. I'm not talking about the town of Traiskirchen. [[Federal Minister Dr. Strasser:... Upgrading!]] No matter what, by far not to the extent that the problem has increased there! It happened to me myself that my car was broken into – and then you come to the Gendarmerie, make the ad and get the first answer: You're the sixth one this week that broke into this parking lot! – I am already asking myself whether this is all that can be done by the Gendarmerie, namely: You are now the sixth who comes, we can't continue to worry about it, we'll stop the ad. – There is already the question of where the failure lies. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But let us come back to the FPÖ colleagues. – Of course, the situation is, the states in Traiskirchen, I think, are unacceptable to all. This is what we can understand. With regard to the issue of asylum abuse, Mr Stoisits has described very well, which is to be defined as abuse. If everything you don't agree with is defined as abuse, I have to say: It could soon be so far as to allow any request made in Parliament which does not find a majority to be misused, because we do not have any agreement to do so either. It can't be that simple. [[Abg. Scheibner: This also applies to committees, Mr Cot.]] . We will talk about how the Court of Auditors is going to work and what FPÖ's "Scheibner Protection Programme" is organised in the Court of Auditors Committee. But what I wanted to do was: If one wants to criticize these conditions and seriously want a discharge to take place in Traiskirchen, I already ask you very specific questions: Is there a single example where you have not mobilized against it if smaller units were to be created if the possibility of moving refugees from Traiskirchen into units of a size of 100 people were to be created? Every time such plans have appeared, the FPÖ has acted, but has become strong – not only the FPÖ, that is correct; yes, one can probably extend that to the ÖVP – and in many areas the politicians have gone on the ground and have said: [[Abg. Grossruck: Not only the FPÖ, also the SPÖ!]] Not with us! I just know that FPÖ is the strategy. To say: Traiskirchen should be relieved!, but always if there is to be discharge measures, go and say: That's not a serious policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e6756	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. The remaining speaking time of the Group is 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e6774	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I will comment on the asylum problem, I would like to take the opportunity to be here at the speaker's desk to take advantage of interested students from the 7th century. Class of the “Sacre Cēur” from Graz quite cordially welcome to us. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I believe that if you have followed the discussion, you have seen that in the final effect – at least I believe, and I agree to all wish to act fairly – this issue was discussed very intensively. I think Mrs. Fablé has very clearly explained what we are talking about in terms of freedom. It is not a question of neglecting, it is not a matter of putting up with us, it is quite clear to us that we are dealing with this problem. Mr Oellinger! Not only are your greens outside, we are outside with people and realize that there are problems there. The problems are there – but so far there is no solution. I believe that the approaches we have in our proposal – what we are discussing, what we want to intensify – make sense, because if you live in areas where many refugees or asylum seekers or asylum seekers, whatever you call them, are accommodated, there are problems there. Mrs Stoisits, if you have said here that “Asylant”/ “Asylantin” is a word of renunciation by the FPÖ, I would ask you to look into the dudes or other dictionaries. This word is also inside, of course, and it describes an “asyl-seeking man. ” That is, we are not making any attempt here, we are trying to show the problem clearly, because we see ourselves as a control party in this government and in this Republic. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] And we will continue to do so, ladies and gentlemen. As a liberal, we will carry on this discussion controversially with all possible means, we will find out all things as we get this problem straightened out, and we will be able to remain right, as on many other issues.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e6824	The next item is the report by Mr Miedl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e6844	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Mrs Hlavac, it is a delicate issue, the entire federal state and the federal law to be associated with it! I listened very attentively. Yeah, what's the opposition to proposals? What's from there? And I came up with it, it's not about proposals, it's not about content at all. Do you know what you're talking about, Mr. Oillinger? – You are about to adapt one of the most successful Federal ministers to one of the most successful interior ministers and tell him that what he is doing is not good, ladies and gentlemen. That's why you're doing it! The Minister of the Interior reorganises the asylum system, regulates the situation among civil servants, it is about new integration rules, about a new driving licence and about road safety, and he sets up the executive. These are all things, ladies and gentlemen, to be taken into account. These are the most difficult materials that have not attacked Blecha or Schlögl, nor Rösch, nor One in any form. He does it, and with him there are also new ways, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This should be taken into account, and one should support a minister who is not simply leaning back, ladies and gentlemen. To reject these difficult issues would be much easier. But we'll pick it up, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Oils: But unconstitutional!]] Mr Oellinger, I say something to you now: In 2002, we discussed the integration agreements, with the language courses, if you can remember. – One of the most successful things because one of the principles of the EIA is that those who find inclusion in us are to be integrated as quickly as possible. You and your group, the Green Group, have strongly opposed this. In the meantime, there are 2 500 asylum seekers who speak the German language, and the German language is one of the basic conditions for integration, Mr Oillinger. You weren't there at the time; I only heard you as a critic at the time. They should have supported this path, then it would have been easier – and it would have been better for the asylum seekers, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, the ÖVP, Mr Oellinger, acknowledges the fact that someone who is persecuted in his home country for religious, ethnic or racial reasons will be included with us. [[Abg. Olympian: I hope so!]] And if you do in your speech as if there were no abuse here: Of course, there is that, and we as legislators are called on to stop this abuse! I am also concerned about the acceptance of the population in this difficult and delicate question, Mrs Hlavac. We need the acceptance of the population on such questions! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One more point, Mr Oellinger: Whoever is legally resident in Austria is entitled to grant asylum and any support. But if someone here does not comply with the law because he intends to violate the criminal law here, then he has processed his hospitality and has to go home. These are the principles on which we stand, Mr Oellinger. [[Abg. Oillinger: But legal, isn't it?]] And principles to which we stand should be put into applicable law; that is also our task as legislators. For the accusation, to the allegation of the opposition parties, the action of the government groups would be ‘human rights-respecting’, ‘human’ et cetera: Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition parties, look at the figures at least once! We had 2 300 cases in this area in 2000 – and in the meantime there are 26 000 asylum seekers to be supplied in Austria! Ladies and gentlemen! To look at these figures alone would have been worth it. If Austria – in relation – has ten times more asylum seekers than Germany, this would point to a particular circumstance, Mr. Oellinger. Mr Posch, I would like to tell you: Take a look at the social-democratic countries, such as Germany or Sweden: In Germany, an asylum-seeker reaches 3,358 inhabitants. Do you know this number for Austria, Mr Posch? – In Austria, 436 people have an asylum seekers! These are the figures to which we should refer in this whole debate! But I didn't hear from you about the SPÖ! On the other hand, there was only criticism of this – undoubtedly difficult – matter, but no proposals! [[Abg. Oellinger: (on the spectator gallery) Now you have lost the students as a listener!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We'll continue our way. The ÖVP, with the ÖVP Minister for the Interior of Strasser, advocates rapid procedures in the field of asylum. We are in favour of human support for asylum seekers, and we are in favour of comprehensive integration, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Colleague. [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens]] And this includes the language, the apartment, the work – and also the courage to tackle things. And I only saw such a thing at the Minister of the Interior Dr. Strasser, Mr. Oillinger, with no one else! – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e6959	The next speaker was Mr Pendl. Your group's remaining speaking time, Mr Deputies: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e6977	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Let me make two comments at the beginning. Firstly, Mr Miedl, everyone must comply with the laws, therefore also the Austrian federal constitution. If you have decided on this asylum law, I think that you will no longer have to discuss it here; this is all known here in the House. If you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, do not believe all the experts of the Austrian Bishops' Conference or, for example, the Catholic Family Association, you believe your own Federal Chancellor, who said at your party event that he cannot imagine that there are no 30 000 refugees in Austria. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, this debate is also going on: Not a colleague, not a colleague of yours, has today lost at least a few words of thanks in this so important debate. – Therefore: I thank the representatives of the state of Vienna, I thank the representatives of the state of Lower Austria, and I also thank the Traiskirchen population and the municipal representative of the city of Traiskirchen for working on this work for all of us in the sense of humanity. Have a lot of money! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Let me now deal with some things in the day-to-day running of the administration there; I do not want to repeat the numbers at all. If you were serious about the ÖVP with your own announcements, then there would be only a few people in the Traiskirchen refugee camp who, in order to express it in this way, would have to be traded and then we would not need it in 21. In the 19th century, to have such a “lager situation” – under quotation marks! This would not be necessary if some federal states were to comply with the Article 15a agreement they themselves had concluded with the Confederation. We from SPÖ have already pointed out in the course of the legislative process that there will not be any staff in the administrative field with very little or no staff at all. For international comparison: We know very well the figures that are necessary in the field of personnel in order to be able to deal with asylum procedures quickly. This has nothing to do with it either, Mr Brosz, whether or not in a few months of municipal council elections are taking place or not, because we have been discussing this issue with other governments, from 1990 to the present day. However, I believe that in the meantime we have had the opportunity to come to at least under 300, even under 100 – in this “bandwidth” at least – asylum seekers in Traiskirchen several times. At present, the Minister is probably pleased, and I am saying right now, that if the number of asylum seekers in Traiskirchen falls, everyone will probably be happy, but the situation is totally unsatisfactory. In this district, where 1 000 citizens are resident, there is a situation that must be called unworthy of human beings. Again: I mean, in the 21st century. We don't need a camp in the 19th century. Many already know what it looks like in the rooms in Traiskirchen. That's a mockery of every description! It was not about the fact that Mr. District Captain, for both sanity reasons and fire police reasons, conducted a negotiation, a local eye-catching certificate and issued clear conditions in this regard. We are all required to take all the federal states, and above all the Federal Government, into account; here I address to you all, ladies and gentlemen, the flaming appeal – to influence our country politicians in this respect, in the sense of solidarity between the Austrians, but above all in the name of humanity, in order to stop this inhumane system!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e7056	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We are now voting on the self-employed motion for a resolution 461/A (E) by Mrs Partik-Pablé, colleagues on the revision of the asylum law. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. (E 73.) Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e7092	We shall now proceed to the debate on the request of the honourable Members. Kogler, Dr. Kräuser, colleagues, on the establishment of an investigation committee on enforcement operations which led to the type-approval of Eurofighters and to the purchase contract. This request has now been distributed to all Members. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e7420	We are therefore going into the debate. In the sense of § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure is the speaking time in this debate for 5 minutes, with the first speaker explaining a speaking time. 10 minutes. The opinion of members of the Federal Government or of the State Secretary on the floor should not take more than 10 minutes. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e7450	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) [[The speaker turned over several papers.]] [[Abg. Grill: Is that the right note?]] – There is still a note left here at the speaker’s desk; this is not appropriate for the subject-matter of the investigation. I was just making sure, not afraid, ladies and gentlemen. The question raised as to the justification of the request for the setting up of an investigation committee, the type of decision, the purchase contract and counter-acts relating to Eurofighter, is also raised in this Court of Auditors report, among other things – I do not want to pick up on it at all. It is known to you that there are a lot of documents that include much further accusations. I would like to join you in the very useful exercise, as I believe, of simply staying in this Court of Auditors report, Mr Grossruck, the Court of Auditors report to which you wish to refer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Großruck]] I can assure you that we too are in a position to interpret the previous paragraph of the summary of this report correctly, and I am saying it right now so that we do not always have to hear it afterwards – so I am looking for the valued follow-up speakers to perhaps stand up to it: It is stated in the previous paragraph that the product Eurofighter has been identified “appropriate as the best bidder” – and now comes – “by reference to the... established standards”. Why do I emphasize that so much? Because in the majority of this Court of Auditors report – perhaps underwent You then make the effort to look at it there; there are some passages in the request for this committee of inquiry in the explanatory statement, in these central passages... – One actually has the impression that the noise level in the hall is kept high, but be it there! . I say that these standards, which are now at stake, must be reviewed in relation to their arrival. [[The sound level in the hall is high.]] What about setting these standards? Is it not possible to find the award-making crux there? Indeed! I'm just going through a few examples with you now. I am very close to the Court of Auditors' report and may point out that we have found an information person there – and it must be said – with Federal Minister Platter, who has recommended the majority to us here. We then let ourselves be generalised and, contrary to all the remarks you may have heard from your colleagues in the government groups, Platter has not answered the central questions – and he has not been able to do so either. These questions would be as follows: I'm coming back to the above-mentioned payment variant. It is clear from the Court of Auditors' report that the selection of the payment variant has, in fact, determined the type of decision! I literally quote: “last of all ”! – And now it comes: In another passage, the Court of Auditors writes that he – the Court of Auditors – misses the written definition – but now – of the Federal Ministry of Finance. They have recommended this, and a corresponding note in the Ministry of Defence can only be found on 24 March. ==References== Ladies and gentlemen! What does that mean? – The payment variant was then set when the variants of the evaluation commission were present. What do you think happened now? The Federal Ministry of Finance did not choose those payment variants that had clearly been in front of the grips, no, it was a single way where Eurofighter could be at the front – if you understand them at all – and it was interpreted, under these circumstances, that the Federal Ministry of Finance has determined this. A ministerial councillor Hillingrathner intervened on that day, and there is a clear suspicion that the Ministry of Finance has already presented the evaluation documents and that, following the Court of Auditors report, the Federal Minister of Finance has, in fact, given the result for the largest military procurement in the history of this Republic! This would not be so dramatic if it were not at the same time that it was by far the most expensive instrument and that the same Minister of Finance – of course it is true! – it has been introduced in the corresponding application to the Council of Ministers that suddenly and surprisingly it has been added that the expected additional costs in the operation – and this may be about 30, 40 years! – move in an order of a billion, that exactly that Federal Minister of Finance, who until June still under the slogan: [[Abg. Murauer: That's just not true!]] I am the lawyer of taxpayers, interceptors are not slow!, has occurred, it has led to the choice of the most expensive variant by far. I should like to continue by quoting from the Court of Auditors' report and from the remarks made by the Court of Auditors, which appear here again and again. Ladies and gentlemen! These are documents from the award act in which the highest-ranking military can be registered with office and seal and signature due to the approximate equivalence of the two products, but the much lower cost – you can read all of this, so that you can then carry out conscience research later, if you cannot agree here again for any reason. So: Nearly equivalence, but the much cheaper product both in the purchase costs and in operating costs. For this reason, the General Force Inspector recommends to take the cheaper product in the course of the file: Flu! The head and head of the procurement recommends that you take the cheaper product! Now we are coming to speak briefly about the way in which we work here in Parliament. When we negotiate a Committee on the Court of Auditors, it is said that we are not a committee of inquiry – which is basically right. But this is not against a questioning of people! But those highest-ranking military are not loaded because you do not want to allow it with your majority, which is of course yours. Only: It is for us to qualify this as a strenuous action, and I have nothing to say back to this expression. [[Abg. Scheibner: You can do that!]] [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] In my view, this is not a working party, even if meetings take a long time, it has become a sinking committee, and I am sorry to see that as chairman of the same committee. But follow your own argument and continue to be fooled! A Committee of the Auditors report is present, and that is then ‘no committee of inquiry’. – That’s right, but remember: It has been the last meeting here in this room to argue with the Committee of Inquiry's request Seiel: Yes, we are waiting for the Court of Auditors' report and the Court of Auditors' Committee! – It is suddenly right that we should refer to the Court of Auditors if, in the opposite case, a committee of inquiry is in the process of debate. Ladies and gentlemen! Deal with yourself – or admit that you want to avoid the investigation in principle! That's your central goal! Let us at least make it clear that we can fulfil our mandate as Members of Parliament – not only as opposition, but also as Members who are committed to a conscience and a constituency and a particular work here and do not want to play with it! It is massively disturbed by the interplay between executive and parliament in Austria. From our point of view, there is a massive control situation here, and you have to answer it. And I'll tell you quite openly: It is not visible or, rather, it is not clear – in fact, much is not visible either – why the central witnesses of this process – and this despite the Court of Auditors' report, which you are still using for yourself and for your argumentation! – must not be loaded so that a few central questions can be asked. They have received the offer that the issues will be limited and that, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, these few questions will be dealt with in a public hearing. It would be done in a few hours! Some of us are still in the Committee on the Court of Auditors – I am making the offer here – because that would really serve everyone! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hornek: This is an abuse of the Rules of Procedure!]] We will then discuss the Rules of Procedure even more often. I can only say that, ladies and gentlemen, I and I, today and yesterday, have applied the Rules of Procedure as it has been in this committee for decades and for decades in other committees! [[Abg. Hornek: You have abused the Rules of Procedure! A smooth abuse of the Rules of Procedure!]] [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. School.]] We invite the President-in-Office of the Council to provide assistance to the committee leaders, and we will be very happy to agree on this. But if so, then uniformly! But to conclude with the Rules of Procedure, we come to the central points: We are in danger of becoming a suffocating parliament here. I can thus come to my conclusion and express in this truly my personal outrage and say that this is the Austrian Parliament, Mr Molterer – and certainly not the sacristy of your ÖVP party headquarters!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e7613	Mr Murauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e7632	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Kogler! Returned from the morning rest, because the whole night was spoken on this subject? – I welcome you to the most cordial! [[Rejoicing with representatives of the Greens and the SPÖ.]] – It was very, very intensively spoken, not always focusing on the subject, but still one has been able to turn the Rules of Procedure. We have taken note of it and have endured with you. Do you know what I'm telling you? [[Abg. Faul: “I’ve always slept! ”]] – You've always slept? - That doesn't matter! It didn't notice! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] You know what I'm saying to you: A good day starts in our country, in our Austria, so that it is a safe day. [[Abg. Oillinger: With a renovated budget!]] And with our Dragons – and in the future with the Eurofighters – we will be able to keep this country safe and therefore we need air surveillance, we need the Eurofighters! [[Rejoicing with representatives of the Greens and the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Oils: Maybe we should clean it up, the budget!]] Ladies and gentlemen from the left! I mean, if you can calm down: I have already made you aware at night of the praises with which They always think about the Court of Auditors and emphasize how committed they are, how committed they are to knowing, and that they are to a great extent given thanks and recognition. – We all do that, of course. The house welcomes. . Then you say, however, that you do not want to take note of the Court of Auditors' report, because it is obvious that the quality of the audit is not so correct, and that these Court of Auditors reports, which are our control body, are not sufficient for you. We discussed in committee meetings, we had special events – it is not the first time we are talking about airspace surveillance. First of all, your strategy was that you were against it in general. Now your strategy is that you are against the type Eurofighter Typhoon. - And you won't find anything! [[Abg. Elder: Enough!]] The prosecutor was also tried. I don't know who it was – not fungus, I suppose, not Kogler, you don't even know, Mr. Ollinger, but the prosecutor's office has been tried. And what does the Court of Auditors say? – Nothing came out: back. In fact, they do not want to take note of the fact that there was a Commission belonging to 33 experts and that there was a decision: four to one per Eurofighter, and that the Federal Government has adhered to this decision. I ask you: If the Federal Government had done something else, what would you say? – Then we would have vice versa the request to set up an investigation committee with the argument: What does the government allow itself to ignore an expert proposal and another decision – Mr Kogler: another decision! - to meet? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I know – and I am aware that you have ideological difficulties in this regard – that you reject airspace surveillance, in principle some of you, because “we don’t need that in Austria”. Yesterday we heard yes, we are surrounded by NATO states and by friends: Who's gonna hurt us? We need no surveillance; we have to secure our borders, but not in the air! – What do you praise for? [[Demonstratative condolences with the Greens.]] [[Abg. Oellinger: Because you said that completely right!]] For my rhetoric? – Thank you! Or what for? Are you also for surveillance? Yesterday, during the visit of the Israeli President, it was shown that we are very much required to control and monitor our airspace. [[Abg. Brosz: Did the Eurofighters fly as well?]] You read the newspapers yourself, so I don't need to explain that. To the lady who said yesterday, of course, we do not need airspace surveillance at international events, I would like to say: I wish you luck! We will see when it is so far, in 2006, when we have the Presidency of Europe – or even if we want to assist other countries – whether this is required of us or not. I would like to say quickly: If you are always stratifying Mr Wagner, I can remind you – you will probably not know anymore, but some of the colleagues from the Social Democrats have already been involved –: Mr Wagner has already played a very specific role – I say now, meticulously – when the Drakes were acquired. At that time he also said: They will not be able to fly, and perhaps it will be too cold for the Dragons to fly; and who knows if there has not been any money for any parties, et cetera. – So at that time, too, one has tried to make the procurement for the security of the country bad and to defamate. There is no reason for a committee of inquiry, and of course such a one is rejected!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e7770	Mr Herzegovina is speaking as the next speaker.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e7795	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to be too strict now with Mr Murauer – he has made a little nod to the committee for a long time. I can judge this because I was chairman, and I've always looked and thought: As long as this isn't gonna be a threat, I'll just let it go! [[Congratulations and cheerfulness with representatives of the SPÖ.]] But something completely different, my own. Ladies and gentlemen: a little praise. It's about a gift basket, everyone can play along, also the colleague Murauer: He or she gets a gift basket that can call me a single act of the President of the National Council, where he has made himself strong for parliamentary control. - Probably I have to keep this gift basket. [[Abg. Hornek: You'll get a basket for sure, colleague herbs! You'll get a basket for sure!]] On the other hand, Mr Molterer, when it comes to drawing up opinions for the Government, the President needs a medium-sized van! That should also be said. And right now, the President of the National Council would be urgently called upon to look at what is happening. For example, counter-businesses. The Court of Auditors shall not receive any documents from the Ministry. The Court of Auditors does not submit any documents to Minister Bartenstein. In an answer to a question, Minister Bartenstein says he cannot provide any information. He's giving the press information. And if this is criticised here, then the Minister stands for an increase of the honourable Member. I mean, he got his receipt – right away, including discount. But it cannot be that way, and I believe that once the President of the National Council has to intervene, if the Court of Auditors is no longer taken seriously as the body of the National Council, if the Court of Auditors - and this has a bit to do with the National Council - is not taken seriously if parliamentary questions are not taken seriously. And, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, I say something to you: I think it is very inappropriate if the President of the National Council rejects categorically the EIA clause. If that's what Mr. Molterer does – all right. But the President of the National Council – that does not fit! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] If I interpret all that I am concerned with correctly, then you will not vote in favour of the Committee of Inquiry, and therefore it will be necessary, Mr Neudeck, that you vote at the next meeting of our Committee of Auditors for Information. [[Abg. Neudeck: It wasn’t a conference, it was a “nighting ”!]] And with you I especially advertise the Dr. Jörg Haider – most of the time the excitement, the indignation, fear and horror are particularly great when you ask Jörg Haider for information. Mr Scheibner will then respond immediately to the statements made by Jörg Haider, for example: Is there any suspicion that there are criminally relevant offences related to the interceptors? – Absolutely, absolutely! – This is in the “Small Newspaper” of the 8th century. ==References== [[Abg. Scheibner: When did he say that?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Aha!]] I am sure you will now give an opinion on this matter, Mr Klubobmann Scheibner. Ladies and gentlemen! Did the Eurofighter purchase actually get along with things? - That's asking a lot of people. 13 percent just say that everything went wrong! And on this screw, you've been turning neatly in the last few days. I believe that this figure will now be just as unique as that of the FPÖ with regard to the electorate. Ladies and gentlemen! To conclude a pious wish: I would wish once for God's blessing from President Khol for parliamentary control. And what's a real concern to me: I would like to thank the SPÖ Group of the Court of Auditors for its great commitment to greater democracy and parliamentary control over the last few hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e7887	Mr Scheibner is speaking as the next speaker.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e7905	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I've been wanted by the Greens so many times now, I'm glad. Here I am, ladies and gentlemen! And you asked me a question here: I should explain why I had already opted for the flu and who voted against me. Ladies and gentlemen! You know, I chose the product of the EADS Eurofighter company, signed an application for a Council of Ministers on this subject and also submitted it to the Council of Ministers. Nothing else I signed and did not choose anything else. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, I have answered clearly, clearly and adequately here – but perhaps not to your delight. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Kogler! Of course, it is your right – and we have always done so as an opposition – that if you are dissatisfied with anything or do not want a project to go to fields, you have no question. Once you are subject to a committee – and the opposition is, unfortunately, or sometimes, thanks to God most often in a committee – you can criticize it. That's not a question. And if you do not get through with cargo decisions, you can also criticize this, Mr Kogler. But as committee chairman, we must accept the Committee's decisions, whether they like them or not. Mr Kogler! I was chairman of the National Defence Committee for seven years. There's also a lot of things happening that I didn't like as a member of the opposition. But at the time I took over the presidency, I was not a free politician, but a chairman of the National Defence Committee. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This, Mr Kogler, we would all, as I do, expect of you and also that you will manage the Rules of Procedure as necessary for a committee chairman. What you're saying as a green politician, we're not sensitive either. But as chairman of a committee of this Parliament, you have to comply fully with the Rules of Procedure. But today this will be the subject. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] That is why I tell you, I am not pleased because I think it is a good, important and necessary project to maintain airspace surveillance. The APA can be found: There has already been an incident – this is God's thanks to him very much – in the flight from President Katzav to Mauthausen. It was a private machine on collision course that didn't turn off. There were two interceptors who escorted this helicopter fleet – thank God – that pushed this plane down. Ladies and gentlemen! This is an example – yes, you laugh again – a small example, but I tell you, and you also know that the Israeli President Katzav would not have entered a helicopter – by the way, it has been such a “evil combat helicopter”, as it has always said, a blackhawk, who has a self-protection system – if not guaranteed that the airspace can be locked and monitored. [[towards SPÖ]] Nor would we be given major events like the European Championship if we could not guarantee that. – That only on the principle of the need for airspace monitoring. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] To your constant reservations: For two years now, you have been moving against this decision to fields. It may like you or not, but you always come with the old facts. Nothing new, always the same thing. We reject it, but you come after a certain period of time, if you think you have forgotten it, with things again from new. There is a Court of Auditors report on the planning where you said: This will be a major disaster. - It was very, very positive. Then there was a Court of Auditors report on the type of decision that is now being debated in the Committee. That's what you said: There all these suspicions will be confirmed. – Nothing, the Court of Auditors has recognized the decision as correct, Mr Kogler! There was a wealth of fines: All of them put back, ladies and gentlemen, clearly. So you are not working on the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on a positive report, and do not ask us to agree to a committee of inquiry, where there are only positive opinions on this procedure, Mr Kogler, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Since you're always asking: What about the decision?, I tell you quite openly: My decision, also for the Eurofighter, was dependent on the financial commitment of the Minister of Finance, namely in the direction that all funds to cover the additional costs for the equipment and the operation are allocated to the national defence budget. There was this commitment, and that is why I made my decision for the best device for which the evaluation committee has also decided. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to know how you would have acted if I had decided otherwise if I had not received this financial commitment and therefore we would have received a negative Court of Auditors report. I am familiar with this Court of Auditors report – it is positive – and also with this type of decision.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e7978	Mr Pilz is speaking as the next speaker.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e8003	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! In contrast to the members of the Committee on the Committee of the Regions, who worked very seriously this night – and here I am explicitly counting on the members of the Freedom Party in this committee – you have preferred to rest. Imagine what we could have experienced in parliamentary consensus in a fraction of this time of information! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Yes, is it really necessary for you to force the opposition to take advantage of the Rules of Procedure up to the border, only to remind you that there is something like a parliamentary right of question and control? [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: Go, go!]] Have you, Mr Scheibner, as a former member of the opposition, and also the ladies and gentlemen of the EIA, to whom this has happened, completely forgotten that control law and budgetary law are the two major accompanying rights relating to Parliament's legislative law? And what has become of this right of control? - I've experienced it. When we asked the Minister of Defence to provide us with two officials, and a request – which has still not been agreed – the Minister of Defence drew out two letters and said: I had letters sent to me by the two officials, and I read them to the committee. – This is the modern information right! That is how the Court of Auditors will work in the future! If you believe that a green opposition is satisfied with it, then you have simply and simply deceived yourself. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] None of us have a particular desire to spend 18 hours in a committee room in this Parliament. [[Abg. Ellwall: Pilz already!]] But that's not what makes you more or less happy. This is about defending the rights of the Austrian National Council against you, the representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ. This is a question of protecting this National Council and its control against the abuse of power by the majority. This is a question of maintaining a committee of the Court of Auditors capable of working. How should a committee of the Court of Auditors work if it can't question anyone? Should we Members question each other? Should we jointly bring together the reports of the Committee of the Regions? Is that what you think committee work is? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I wonder again and again: What do you really have to fear that no one official, no one official, can be available to us as an informer? [[Call:The fungus]] There are already answers to that. We also discussed some new documents in the Court of Auditors on this long night, and a few new and amazing things have emerged. [[Call:Reset]] I have always asked myself why the officials of the evaluation committee at that time have pleaded for Eurofighters, and all officials have supported the product flu by the Minister. And, Minister Scheibner, you have supported it, and you have brought it to the Council of Ministers' preliminary meeting, and They have signed an application, and this has failed in a veto of the Minister of Finance. [[Abg. Scheibner: Where did I sign an application?]] And if you want to clarify this and if you want the truth to be really publicly documented, you have a very simple way: Please agree to the Examining Committee! We will then review what it is like with this Council of Ministers speech. It's high time for that. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Werner Kogler was forced to interrupt the meeting again after the government was removed. You, your Members have just left the negotiating room. [[Abg. Scheibner: It must not meet a committee at the same time as a National Council!]] We don't know exactly why. The Committee had to be interrupted. We hope that you will be ready to take part in a proper meeting of the Committee on the Committee on Budgets on the next date, which the Committee chairman will coordinate with you. And we will ask you again next time – and I conclude with that – whether you are at last prepared to allow the Court of Auditors to do its work in the interests of Austrian democracy, as the Rules of Procedure and the meaning of these Rules of Procedure provide. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e8130	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the honourable Member. Kogler, Dr. Herb, colleagues, on the establishment of an investigative committee. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a sign on this point. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2004-10-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00081_d7e8164	In the sense of § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure I would like to inform you of the following letter from the Federal Chancellor: “I am honoured to inform you that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with his resolution of 20. ==References== 300,000/2-BEV/04, in accordance with Article 74(3) The Federal Constitutional Act has detonated the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Dr. Benita Ferrero-Waldnervom Amt. At the same time, on my proposal under Article 70(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany has appointed Ms Ursula PLASSNIK as Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs. Best regards Wolfgang Schüssel’ I am still announcing that self-employed requests 461/A and 462/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 2217/J to 2228/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council, held on Tuesday, 9. November 2004 will be called up in writing. This meeting is closed.
