ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e1754	The 66. The meeting of the National Council is open. Deputies are reported as prevented by Dr. Lichtenberger, Head, Haubner, Vergestnich and Csörgits. Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e1782	The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notification that Mr. Dr. Heinz Fischer has waived his mandate and, in his place, Mr. Mag. Norbert Darabos was appointed to the National Council. Since the election permit is already in place and the person mentioned is present in the house, I will immediately make his fishing observation. After reading the vow formula by the writer, the new representative will have to do his fishing with the words “I promise”. I now ask the author, Mr Jakob Auer, to read the vow formula.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e1824	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e1839	I promise!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e1855	I warmly welcome the new Members in our midst. [[General condolences.]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e1879	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e1948	I also point to the following: to the Justice Committee: Amendment 411/A (E) by Mrs Gabriela Moser on the association clause; to the Health Committee: Amendment No 412/A (E) by Mrs Mag. Brigid Weinzinger on the creation of a wildlife shelter in Austria; to the Education Committee: Proposal 413/A by Mr Werner Amon, MBA, Mr Mares Rossmann on a federal law amending the Academy Study Act. Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e2013	Deputies Dr. Eva Glawischnig, ladies and gentlemen, according to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested the use of a Committee of Inquiry to examine the responsibility of Federal Minister Elisabeth Gehreral's Supervisory Body of the Federal Museums with regard to the lack of consequences from obvious misunderstandings in the Art History Museum. In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, proposed that a debate be held on the request. In accordance with this provision of the Rules of Procedure, debate and vote shall take place after completion of the agenda. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e2043	It is proposed that the debate on points 5 to 7 and 8 to 12 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, are objections raised? - That's not the case. We will proceed accordingly. We are now going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e2067	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the duration and shape of the debates: Day block time: 7 ‘Vienna hours’, speaking times: ÖVP and SPÖ each 123 minutes, Free 84 as well as Green 91 minutes. The debate on item 1 also set a speaking time limit of 10 minutes per group for any number of speakers. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. We'll do that. 1. Point Election of the Second President of the National Council / Second President of the National Council pursuant to § 21 para. 3 GOOD
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e2116	We're coming to the 1st. Agenda item. In accordance with the Presidential Conference, I propose that we conduct a debate. This requires the approval of the House. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, agreeing to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. I announce that there is a proposal for an election. He was introduced by the Social Democratic Party and is a member of parliament. Barbara Prammer. We are now going into the debate. First speaker: Mr Mag. Molterer. Desirable time: 4 minutes. – Mr Commissioner, you are on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e2162	Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr President. Since 1945, the most powerful party in the National Council has been making the president, the second strongest being the Second President of the National Council – although the Rules of Procedure do not provide for such a regulation. This is a good use, that is a real use, and the Austrian People's Party will therefore also stick to this use. This means, of course, that we respect the SPÖ's proposal right for the Second President of the National Council. But this also means that we are examining all the proposals made with regard to the concrete ideas that the Austrian People's Party has for this office in respect of the exercise of this office, to the best of its knowledge and conscience. This includes: First: objectivity and over-participality, especially in the performance of the management here in the house, Secondly, an in-depth knowledge of the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure, but not only according to the letters, but also according to the spirit of the Rules of Procedure, Thirdly, it is an example of compliance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, because it is the President-in-Office and, of course, the Second President, who has the dignity of the House, the proponent and must also be the model, Fourthly, the respect for parliamentary and democratic principles, not only here in Parliament, but of course also outside, because, in the representation of the First President of the Second President, of course, Parliament is also outside, fifthly, the ability to achieve consensus and compromise, particularly in coordinating Parliament's work in the Presidency, because this is the basic prerequisite for the proper functioning of a good discussion process here in the House, Sixteenths: Priority of the whole to egoistic individual interests and small-scale hack and The seventh point: the ability to talk to all the political groups here in the House and, of course, to the Federal Government. The representatives of the Austrian People's Party will make their personal decision according to these criteria.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e2217	Mrs Mag (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mrs Magnette for I'm talking about Prammer. Desirable time: 6 minutes. – Mrs Colleague, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e2236	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Let me begin by briefly referring to the importance of the Bureau of the National Council. Each member of the Bureau has an important role in our democracy and in Austrian parliamentarianism – of course we all know that. That is why I very much welcome the fact that the President-in-Office of the Council that we have all jointly decided to hold a debate on the election of the Second President/Second President of the National Council. She gives me the opportunity, for example, to point out that from 1991 to 1995, I was not only a member of the Upper Austrian Parliament, but also its second country president and that I have been a member of the National Council since 1999. I can say to myself and myself: I am an enthusiastic and convinced parliamentarian. I have learned the importance of good cooperation with all the political groups in the House, and you can be sure that I will make a very special effort to do so. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I feel well prepared for the Bureau's task, although, of course, I know how difficult this task is. I know that every member of the Bureau must constantly, at each meeting, strive to do so and work to ensure that the characteristics of objectivity and over-participation are actually and to the best possible extent accepted by the members of the National Council, but also by the public. I will, if I should be elected, always make a special effort to ensure this objectivity and over-participality in the Presidency. However, this does not mean – and I think it is precisely the adoption of President Fischer that has shown this very clearly; many members of the Bureau have given a clear witness here again and again – that they give up their political attitude, but that they maintain their political attitude. On the contrary! I am of the opinion that someone who has deep democratic and political convictions often has the ability to act fairly and objectively as President towards representatives of a different political attitude. Ladies and gentlemen! There are people of different political attitudes in this house. That is the essence, that is the main characteristic of a democratic Parliament. A democracy, a parliamentary system is just successful and attractive to people when, in all diversity, all representatives are completely disputing certain very important fundamental questions. Let me briefly address two of these basic questions. First: What unites us in this House is that our Republic, our parliamentary system, was rebuilt in 1945 as a real antithesis of the National Socialist dictatorship and that every member of the National Council fully acknowledges that of our Republic. Secondly, No one can argue that there are only democratically elected parties in this House with all sorts of differences, and therefore it should also be so in violent debates that we do not agree with the members of this House for this fundamental conviction, for this commitment to our Republic and for our democratic system. High house! In particular, we should not forget that a democratic Parliament is often also a very lively Parliament, that people have emotions and that there can also be emotional discussions – of course, in a context of this kind. The chairmanship of the Bureau and the National Council as a whole may have to take a walk here: between the lively Parliament on the one hand and the dissipation in indifference on the other. High house! We must be aware that through the Internet and TV transfers, our Parliament has become much public when it was in the past. This is gratifying, but it also presents us with special challenges. The people of our country not only evaluate our work according to the results of the law, so to speak, not only according to the legal, the legal, the legal, but also to the public, which can be followed by what many do. We know the keyword of ‘political starryness’ and we also know that this is not just a keyword. To convert this policy of some people in our country into political interest is the task of all of us, of each and every one of us. High house! I have said that I consider it gratifying that our National Council is more public than it used to be. I find it equally gratifying that the National Council is also more female than it was years ago or perhaps even decades ago. However, I think that we have not reached the optimal point in this area, as you will be able to agree. If I were to be elected by you, I would be the only woman in the National Council Bureau and would also point out that women's concerns are taken into account in this House. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! So far there are some fundamental considerations about my understanding of the office of a member of the National Council. Should I be elected, I can assure you that I will give my best to to act in accordance with these beliefs. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e2326	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Dr. Bleckmann. 5 minutes welcome. – You are speaking, Mrs Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e2344	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Minister! I personally, as a woman, am pleased about the nomination of a woman, no matter which party she comes from, because I simply consider it important that women are represented in bodies where there are few or no women at all. We liberals respect the SPÖ's right to propose this function and, of course, respect these uses. But of course we expect one president to do something. Much has already been said about dignity today. I think that this is an important point in addition to knowledge in many areas concerning the House, but one that is important to us is above all objectivity and over-participality. The second point is objectivity and fairness. The third point is neutral management of meetings with compromise and consensus. I think that this is also very important and necessary for this function. The fourth point – this is allowed as a woman again; but You yourself have also said that this will be important for you in the future – it is especially with a woman and former women's minister, women's solidarity, because I think that this is also important if you are in such a position. At this point, I would also like to say this as a woman, as a female freeman: I have been disappointed over and over again about the exclusion of free women from SPÖ politicians. Only because one may not ideologically share the direction does not mean that one does not try to achieve a common solidarity between women across borders and over party borders. If you're designed for an office, that's to say, you're provisionally appointed to this office. – Also allow me to say this here and today: I was also personally disappointed to hear from a designated president that she – how exactly was it? – truly pleased with the decline of another party in one election. I have to say that in my eyes this was a bad signal. I would have expected a long-term politician to be a little more sensitive in this regard. In this respect, I can only say that we expect a Second President to have objectivity, objectivity and fairness. Down with the party glasses in this function! I can only wish anyone who is elected to this office that he will have a just as dignified farewell as we have just experienced him – with as much agreement from all parties. I think that is a sign that this office has also been filled out in the sense of what has already been said today.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e2391	Next, Mrs. Dr. Glavischnig will speak. She wishes for 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e2411	Mr President. Minister! High house! Election of the Second President of the National Council, that is not just a formal question – right of suggestion, yes or no, should one anchor it, maintain Usance or not? – but that is above all a political question. I would like to draw up two aspects of democracy which are important to me, which are important to us. We will now be very likely to elect a woman as the Second President of the National Council, and in case President Khol gets a flu or falls a flower pot on his head – of course, only with slight injuries, Mr President! – then a woman is the second in the state – still in front of the Federal Chancellor. Although the role of the Second President of the National Council is not linked to a great wealth of power, it is nevertheless a very important representative office in the heart of democracy, namely in Parliament. And here it is particularly important to take into account gender democracy, representation of women, and to look at how it really was and was. 52% of the population are female. We are far from the fact that these 52 percent have their corresponding share of income, influence opportunities, career opportunities and also representation in the political system. If you look back into the past, unfortunately you have to say with regret that of the 52 presidents we have had since we have this Constitution as the basis of our political work, only two have been female. It is commendable that the first president came from among the ÖVPs. You started well, but then you've left very much, I have to say. There is now no longer a woman in the ÖVP Party Summit or in the Club Board. I mean, Mr Klubobmann Molterer, there's something you should work on. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Increased mandate at the next election!]] An example of this: If we continued at this pace, it would take about half a millennium for the Bureau to have a semi-adequate balance between men and women. I think it's too long. From the next election, as of 2006, if we were not going to elect a single man to the Bureau, but only women, we would be – and this is now an example for all those who can expect well – finally in 2081 to compensate for men and women in the National Council Bureau. This is very sad and depressing, and it is a question of democracy policy. We are therefore pleased that SPÖ has proposed a woman. The successive conquest of political positions is simply important. I quote from the women's report of our women's spokeswoman Brigid Weinzinger: It is still a problem as a whole. We have 717 mandates, of which more than 500 are male and only 216 are female. We have 33 members, of which 26 are male and 7 are female. The relationship is also very sad with the members of the government. I think that's also a political mission. It is a political mission for all parties, and it should also be understood as a wakeup call to promote women in all political positions within the parties and to consider instruments. We have also made a number of proposals in the past. Secondly, I would like to talk about this use, which has already been conjured here today: This was not always and everywhere, and not always in the past. It was common until 1983 that two SPÖ presidents were represented in the Bureau and one ÖVP member. Only on admission of the FPÖ to the government has this changed. From the point of view of the Greens, this use must also be discussed. However, we welcome the fact that the second strongest group in the House is now exercising the right of nomination. However, it is a secret and free choice, and I would also like to say here, in full respect for freely elected Green Members, that Barbara Prammer enjoys the full confidence of the Green Group. Thirdly, this is something that has to do with democracy policy and parliamentarianism: That's where I want you, Mrs Mag. Prammer, also give something for the future. It is not only about everyday life, about coordinating session procedures, simplifying disputes, giving calls for orders, and avoiding sexualistic, bulging behaviour, which we will call for in particular, and we will also observe you there – but not specifically in your particular responsibility, but, of course, in that of the entire Bureau – but also about the role of Parliament as a whole. It has developed very well over the last 20 years, but you can still have a vision for the Austrian Parliament, which goes beyond what we now have: Indeed, conflict culture should be further developed, the culture of conflict towards more argumentative debate. I would recommend reading the old Reichsrat protocols once. In 1867, there was a very interesting debate about the basic state law, about the general rights of citizens. This is an example of how to deal with arguments across tombs and achieve a very high level of conflict culture. Work on this would be a nice task, but also to strengthen Parliament as a self-confident place of legislation. I repeat old demands from the Greens, who believe that this House needs a legislative service, that this House needs a constitutional service, and that this House should be better able to provide Enquete Commissions in the light of other European Parliaments, in order to be able to deal with future issues such as bioethics, genetic engineering et cetera. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] A very special mission to you as a Social Democratic. At the beginning of the First Republic, in the 1920s, the Social Democrats took part in the First World War. In October, with very strong constitutional patriotism always fought for parliamentarianism. Something that was somewhat too short at the time, and perhaps still too short today, is the awareness of minority rights, the control rights of the minority, which simply improve the quality of political decisions and also enable differentiated participation in the government or in the majority in the home. You have now spent a few years de facto on the opposition bank, and I would like you to maintain and represent this perspective, which is as automatic as it is with the liberals always in the same way as the government perspective, and to maintain the entire political system and also the importance of control rights, of parliamentary minority rights, and perhaps help to further develop them, even though the SPÖ may need to change the seat position or perspective sometime. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I don't doubt your best intentions. We will give you an advance of confidence. I wish you every good and good cooperation within and outside the Bureau and this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e2472	The next speaker is Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e2490	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Office of the Second President of the National Council is a state-politically important one. We, the ÖVP, have made demands on this – my clubman has already defined it here today –: political experience, stability and state policy in front of party politics. The SPÖ has the right of nomination. We accept it. But you make it really difficult for us, ladies and gentlemen. You nominated Barbara Prammer. Barbara Prammer is well-known to us, we have also looked at them according to their political statements. She has become known primarily as a women's politician and family politician, at least for me. These are both issues which are also very important to the EIA, the EIA, which has always been striving for women for years – qualified women! – not only in party political but also in state-politically high, important offices. I remember that we were the first to be nominated by Marga Hubinek as the second president of the National Council. We also believe that a woman as second President of the National Council was a very good signal. But, Mrs. Prammer, what do you say to the women? What did you tell them at the last election where a woman was running for the highest office, for the Federal President's office? – Your statement at the time was: ‘Being a woman alone is not enough.’ [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stoisits: This also applies to you!]] That, Mrs Prammer, was very outrageous to me because the woman who would have been available at the time is a qualified woman. That is why you have to ask yourself our questions and our qualifications requirements today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. May. Stoisits: This is really embarrassing!]] I thank you for your solidarity with women! Thank you! But they also have women in their quotes in different ways. They have trained women, among other things: Housewives don't work. – This too is not a women’s solidarity! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Mrs Prammer, have you asked yourself the question in the last few days, what does the Office mean by state policy? Mrs. Prammer, if you've done that, make it easier for us: Distance yourself from the statements, this is where Pogrom voice prevails. – That’s not the case! Distance yourself from the last statements in your club that some here grieve the National Socialists! If you do, make it easier for us.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e2556	Mr Gusenbauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. His group's remaining speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e2574	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The Social Democratic Parliamentary Group has power today. Barbara Prammerals Second President of the National Council, because we are convinced that it is absolutely qualified for the Office and constitutes a first-class occupation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly, I believe that if one is to apply for such an office, it should be assessed how a person is already in a similar situation. It's the one that hit. I invite all of you to consult Members on the Upper Austrian Land Day, how Barbara Prammer serves as Second President of the Upper Austrian Landing Day, and you will find that she has performed this office extraordinarily, extravagantly and excellently. In other words, it has already proved that it can perform such a function, and I am convinced that it will be a good second president of the National Council. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Thirdly, Mrs Glawischnig rightly pointed out that Parliament is also concerned that there is a greater equality between the roles of the two sexes in the House. You are quite right, Mrs. Baumgartner-Gabitzer, that it is not just about taking someone, but that you always have to ask yourself the question who the best are. – I can tell you that the SPÖ has asked this question, and we have come to the view that Mag. Barbara Prammer is suitable for this office at the very best – and therefore we recommend it today also for choice. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You, ladies and gentlemen, have also made various comments on the future challenges ahead of the National Council. You're right to: It is not only about qualified women and men in parliamentary functions, but also about having a major task ahead of us if we want to draw the right conclusions from the low electoral participation of last Sunday in the European Parliament's debate. That is, we must not stand by the development of Austrian parliamentarianism, and I am convinced that in relation to these two aspects Barbara Prammer can and will make a very good contribution. Finally, let me say the following: If we had here in the National Council always put on the gold scale all the statements made by someone before the election to the President/President, I think we would have had very difficult discussions in this regard. I say quite frankly to you: I was very, very rarely in agreement with Mr Khol during his time as ÖVP Klubobmann, and very often I did not appreciate the way Dr. Khol has been fighting, but I nevertheless chose him as the National Council President, because I was convinced that if Dr. Khol turns from ÖVP Klubobmann to the National Council President, he will do this job well. And should I tell you something? Luckily, I didn't cheat!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e2659	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e2677	Ladies and gentlemen! My club colleague, Mrs Bleckmann, has already said that our group welcomes the proposal by the SPÖ to a woman as a candidate for the presidency. It is then once again – after a long time – a woman in the Bureau, and, as has been said, we find that very good. The SPÖ also gives you justice to what you always promise women, but you do not actually pay very much for them, namely that women also take leadership positions. However, few women are seen in leadership positions. – That would also be a great task for which you can and should work, Mrs Prammer! It can be assumed, ladies and gentlemen, that the future Second President – and I also believe that it can be assumed that it will be elected – will be measured by its predecessor, Heinz Fischer, who today is a member of the National Council, whose Presidency has been fully honoured. I would also like to say something because I have been here in Parliament for a very long time, and I very much appreciate the chairmanship of Mr Fischer: The objectivity, but above all the fact that Dr Fischer has made a significant contribution to the fact that we have come to a cultured debate here in Parliament, should not remain unmentioned. It wasn't always like this: When I started here in 1983 as a member of the National Council, there were a lot of rougher sounds – and the Bureau was much “more generous” in this regard. I believe that Heinz Fischer has contributed significantly to the fact that derailments, which are, of course, always available, are immediately being detected and that a more stringent scale is being set up, and I am also more angry if I cannot make a statement, which is the question of the right to call, I admit. On the whole, however, I appreciate this better culture of conversation, and I think we should keep it that way. I hope that this objectivity, this fairness, which Heinz Fischer has plowed here across all party borders, will also maintain the future Second President. In Focus Your new task, Mrs Prammer, which you have been preparing for, as you have said today, I have already thought that you should have thought better about what you are going to do after the EU election, even though as a Member, but already as a candidate for the Second President of the Council, as a candidate who also wants to be elected. After the EU election, you, Mrs Prammer, have expressed unabated joy at the fact that the Freedom Party has lost voters, that it is “cuttering into the basement” – and have completely disregarded the objectivity you have known today in advance! It's an absolutely inaccurate way! I'd have expected you to act differently! Unfortunately, you, Mrs Prammer, have rejected it – and you have already been accused of doing so – from the comments of the SPÖ Klubobmann deputy Broukal. They did not say anything about the alleged “pogrom vote”, which was wrongly claimed by the SPÖ here. In our Parliament, there is no “pogrom” vote, but we have open discussions, conflicts, which are sometimes more sharp and sometimes less sharp, but: No one's really being persecuted here! At least I would have expected you to say something about this, Mrs Prammer. In any case, it is clear: Whoever is elected to this office has to take down party political glasses, even if one is still such a committed parliamentarian. Mrs Prammer - I suppose you will be elected - we have great hopes in you that you will implement all that you have done in theory here today, in fact, that you will continue the objectivity and fairness of Heinz Fischer, and that we will all be a good President, a President who represents us well outside, regardless of party membership, and who will also shape the Presidency in such a way that we are in the same way as before in a position to take part in the debate. (ii) the development of the European Union's economic and social cohesion policy; (iii) the development of the European Union's economic and social
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e2749	The last speaker here is Mrs Dr. Brinek. The remainder of your group's speaking time is 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e2768	Mr President. High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It has already been mentioned: When it comes to the election to the Second President, it is also about discussing requirements, skills, qualifications. The ÖVP takes this seriously – more seriously than the SPÖ, the SPÖ women and men have taken when it came to choosing the first woman for the first office in our state. So let's talk about qualifications, conditions, results – not hairstyles, not costume colors, not about setting up spöttic homepages. The result, when we talk about the original field of work of Mr Prammer, about women's policy, is modest. But it may have to be, on the one hand, if you work in a coalition. It is also modest, on the other hand, because the colleagues from their own SP series have not made it easy for her. For example, I only remember Mrs Vranckky's embarrassing speech about the women who give their children in the kindergarten in order to devote themselves to badly paid work or pleasure. Or: Mr Vrannitzky, Federal Chancellor, said that Mrs Konrad's half-and-half campaign was a superfluous issue. Or: The German Chancellor's climate in your time, Mrs Prammer, has also made embarrassing female political statements, as we could read in newspapers, so that representatives of the SPÖ, for example Johanna Dohnal, had to leave the hall. Secretary-General Rudas said before SPÖ bodies that the major issues would first be discussed and then the minors; Point 1: women. – Under such conditions, Mrs Prammer, you had to work! German Chancellor Klima as “Bundes-Kunstkanzler” has honoured Uschi Glas and given her the Cross of Honour for Science and Art, for her – I quote – “estimable contribution to the right of opportunity” and – I continue to quote –“for the most compact marriage in the industry”. – So, especially in this point, far missing. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Federal Minister Extraordinary, Mrs. Prammer, you said, to the knowledge of the Constitutional Court in relation to family, that these judgments must not be taken very seriously – in order to interpret them generously now. Let me come to a summary: When the young SP delegate Tegians wanted to support the Federal Presidency candidate Knoll, this was banned by her own party. That has never been rebutted. – Ms. Tegischer later found no space on a SP candidate list. They require us today to join the design, the election proposal, to Mr Prammer. My colleague Baumgartner said: Notes that there could be a first beautiful state political move, that you, colleague Prammer, are distanced from the above-mentioned statements of Broukals and Gusenbauers, so that the election chance lives. Therefore: The chance lives – we are waiting for your activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e2838	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). His remaining speaking time is 3 minutes. . You are at the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e2856	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is now not easy to speak to you and get your ear, but I ask you one – because I myself, as many of you have been, was not satisfied with the course of the last weeks, because I would like to, and this is also a request to the National Council, that at some point we should give ourselves a political culture again in this House and that we can continue the debate, which was recently interrupted, at a political level which is due to this House – I ask you that you do not take what has caused so much displeasure to a choice. I also ask you to remain in the criteria – I found it very good, Mr Klubobmann Molterer, that you have defined criteria. Because if we create these criteria, then either almost everyone or anyone in this House will be in question – and I think we can trust many that in this function they will exercise their office with the corresponding objectivity – or nobody. Because we all have political tendencies and values, we all have emotions. I'd just ask you not to set different standards for a woman than you would with a man.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e2887	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. There is a desire to make the choice in election cells. I shall therefore proceed in this way. I have already referred to this vote. I would point out that according to § 87 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure shall also be valid for votes to other elective candidates. Votes issued “white” or written to anything else are invalid. So: You have to say an election proposal or a candidate, then that is valid. According to § 87 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be secret to the election of the President, with votes in favour. I am now briefly interrupting the meeting in order to create the technical conditions for the election in election cells. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e2936	The preparations have ended, and I will resume the interrupted session. I would ask the author, Mr Wimmer, to be ready. Ladies and gentlemen! The minutes to be used shall be issued by the registrar, together with Kuvert, on behalf of the registrar, of the members of the Parliament's Directorate. For the election, use only this official voting paper. On this poll the name of the desired candidate or candidate must be written. After the vote has been completed in the electoral cell, it must be cast into the urn provided in the envelope. I now ask Members to receive their votes and envelopes on behalf of the scribe and then go to one of the voting cells. Mr Wimmer, please start with the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e2981	Did all the convoys give their voices? - That's the case. The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make their votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e3015	I will resume the interrupted session and announce the results of the election: Members cast: 178; of which: 157. The absolute majority of valid votes are 79. It was for power. Barbara Prammer96 votes. 61 votes were taken by other Members.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e3060	That's power. Prammer elected Second President of the National Council. [[Long-term general acknowledgment.]] [[The representatives of the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens shall rise from their seats.]] I'm asking the electorate if she's taking the choice.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e3096	I accept the choice with joy!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e3112	I congratulate Mrs Mag. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: [[General condolences.]] [[Some Members, first of all Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer with a bouquet of flowers, goes to President Mag. Prammer and congratulate this one.]] 2. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government template (464d. B._Other Organiser Federal Law, which amends the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977, the Labour Market Service Act, the Labour Market Policy Finance Act, the Construction Workers' Bad Weather Compensation Act 1957, the Insolvency Insurance Act, the General Civil Code and the Youth Training Protection Act (Labour Market Reform Act) (543 d. B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e3150	We're now on the 2nd. Agenda item. The rapporteur is Mr Wöginger – and not, as stated in the committee report, Mrs Neugebauer. However, Mr Wöginger has not been able to make an oral report. Mr Oellinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent Desirable time: 8 minutes. – Mr Commissioner, you are on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e3174	Mr President. I do not want to disturb the gratification celebrations, but I nevertheless believe that this issue would also deserve attention. [[towards SPÖ banks, where Abg. May. Prammer is still being congratulated on her election to the President]] I can see that this is overshadowed. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] Federal Minister! I quite agree with you that this proposal has by no means done the worst and that the changes, for example in the field of the rules on availability, are still different from those from other countries in which in recent years there have been intensifications, by making them, if you can say so, with measure. But what's the measure? What is human beings and what is reasonable for the unemployed? – First of all, the truth is reasonable to them. The truth is, Mr Federal Minister and my honourable ladies and gentlemen, that in Austria we already had the toughest in EU Europe with the old rules of visibility. The truth is that there is always a debate on strengthening the rules on eligibility when unemployment is particularly high, so the effect of strengthening the rules on visibility must be regarded as particularly low. The truth is, Mr Federal Minister, that with every further intensification – and we already had very sharp rules on feasibility – a dequalification spiral is launched on the labour market, which is not necessarily acceptable to the Austrian labour market. The truth is, Federal Minister, that in the Austrian labour market – and we have been complaining for several years now, this is not only related to your responsibility as Minister of State – in recent years, less is spent on the qualification of the unemployed, but rather on other spa activities. If you are aware of this truth, you are naturally wondering: What is the use of this intensification of the rules on visibility? This is not what we need primarily on the labour market in Austria. The point of approach, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, is not that the unemployed or the unemployed are guilty of this situation, or that a strengthening of the rules of visibility could improve the situation on the labour market, which could increase employment. On the contrary! Es the lack of economic policy measures, the lack of employment policies, the lack of qualified measures for the unemployed. Mr. Federal Minister, why do we not discuss the fact that the primary school courses for school drop-offs – and for school drop-outs, for unqualified people on the labour market – are the biggest problem with unemployment – are being reintroduced, reintroduced and indeed promoted by the labour market service, but of course also by the Ministry of Education? This would be an approach to move towards more qualification. Of course, I know – and you too, Federal Minister – that more qualification alone is not enough. So I'm on the next problem: It is good, Federal Minister, that this package also sets out the continuation of measures for youth. But at least you know from my contributions to the debate that these training courses, on their own, can no longer be the appropriate measure for the employment of young people, nor can they be. We see this from the unemployment statistics, in which it is clear that unemployment has increased particularly in the age group from 19 to 26 years in recent years. That means: After the end of the training measures, unemployment follows. This is a problem for the labour market, but not only for the labour market, but above all for society. In view of this, I would have liked to see, instead of turning around at the portability screw and putting the dequalification spiral in motion again, discussing how many and what means and what measures are needed for the labour market. These are not the ones in which the unemployed themselves are regarded as the cause of unemployment. This is not the problem, ladies and gentlemen. We had 215 000 registered unemployed at the end of May 2004, we had more than 40 000 people in training and more than 30 000 in pension advance benefits, so in total, almost - I am a bit - 300 000 unemployed in one month, in which the economy and thus employment should have been reintroduced and unemployment should have been somewhat reduced. How many open spaces have there been? – 27,000 job vacancies for 300,000 people! Do you really believe that this can be solved by an intensification of the rules on visibility? For the third or fourth time, young people will be offered some courses, courses which have partly been in quality in recent years, because there was no money for them or were not spent on courses. Faith You still think that's the answer for the youth? – That is the reason, ladies and gentlemen, why we do not agree. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The starting point for these measures, for necessary measures, is the wrong one. It's not the unemployed or the unemployed! On this occasion, Mr Federal Minister, I would like to thank you, at least in this section, for changing the wording so that they are gender-neutral that we no longer have the unemployed who are spoken about in the law, but that women are also mentioned. But that is not the point, but the point remains that the right measures for the labour market are missing. It's not really a bad law, you can't say that. It also contains points that represent improvements, but it is the wrong perspective. On the labour market, Mr Federal Minister, you - and this accusation must be made - and the entire Federal Government is obviously not prepared to put in place the measures actually necessary for employment, sufficient resources for young people. to set or set special characters. That's a shame!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e3262	The next item is the report by Mr Mitterlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e3280	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Oellinger, with your choice of word, but also with the content, you will not really address the problems or the content here. [[Abg. Oillinger: And you judge that?]] I'll tell you: It is not about what you have said here, namely that it is not even such a bad law or anything else, but rather about a solution that has been jointly developed in a number of solutions such as processing and worker protection. The purpose is not to intensify anything now or to blame anyone for being unemployed, but it is about improving the situation of the unemployed, ensuring more efficient management when someone comes to the unfortunate situation of being unemployed. Why? – So far, when someone was unemployed, we actually had the best chance to bring him back into the work process in the first three months. 72 percent of the reported open positions were awarded within the first month, 21 percent in the remaining two months. The problem was that for everyone else, the risk of unemployment being strengthened. The situation so far has been such that the unemployed for over 50 years, if they have been insured for nine years in the last 15 years, have had up to 52 weeks of occupational protection. Therefore, the variation, now as the social partners have done, namely to limit the protection of the profession by 100 days, is a very reasonable procedure, because the chance of someone dealing with a change, with a different orientation, is simply greater. You'll see it in practice. The aim is to reduce the average average average duration, which in 2003 amounted to 101 days, to 90 days. This increases the opportunities for the unemployed. [[Abg. Oillingers: The problem is the missing open spaces!]] Second point. In this context, it has also been defined that the remuneration protection is designed degressively. In these first 100 days – or even more than 100 days, in the first 120 days – you have 80 percent pay protection. This then goes a little further down, but with it you also have the guarantee that someone who is now actually forced to orient himself somewhere else has a certain remuneration protection on the other hand. That means that this measure is also socially oriented and helps the person concerned to cope better with this reorientation. The second key focus of this labour market reform was the regulation of the rules on availability, which is the time to go. I have to say quite honestly, so far it has always been very different from church to church, depending on the community boundaries and what care obligations are available. I've always been excited that there was actually a different treatment between one who worked quite normally and an unemployed person who didn't realize certain things. I come from the district of Rohrbach in the Mühlviertel. There are relatively many commuting to Linz and have a journey time of one and a half hours to return. This is reasonable to them, but it has not yet been reasonable for an unemployed person. Now we have jointly arranged for a change in the time of departure, namely two hours, which corresponds to about one quarter of the daily working time of eight hours. I believe that this is quite acceptable because it is fair because it is equal to another person employed by an unemployed person. Of course, that the journey time should be shorter in the ideal case is clear. On the other hand, travel time has also been regulated for up to 20 hours a week, with one and a half hours, and I believe that this is also very positive. The most positive thing, however, is that an individual care plan must also be drawn up for each unemployed person. So far, there has been a philosophy according to which unemployment was essentially managed and not managed towards employment. This philosophy is different now. Now, more efficiency is being produced, and the most serious difference to the past is, in my view, the following: In other countries this has been enforced and decided – for example, in Germany, there are much more stringent regulations, I would say – that the social partners have negotiated with us. This regulation has a high acceptance in the population, which will result in the regime being able to be lived in practice as well. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the value of social dialogue is not necessarily that it brings something together again, but that the value of this agreement is that it is lived in practice. They will therefore experience that we have a better mediation that, as far as employers are concerned, we will have the advantage that employers will get faster workers, that on average the individual unemployed is not unemployed for as long as they have been. That means what we achieve overall is a win-win situation. I thank you very much as an employer's representative at the employee's side. I regret that Mr Vergestnich cannot be here today, because he has mainly cooperated on this side. [[towards SPÖ]] I would also like to thank the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the relevant departments for the fact that this has essentially been implemented as it has been agreed. There is a win-win situation. It's not bad, it's a very good law. Therefore, I regret that you cannot agree with this, but I am pleased that basically everyone else will agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e3336	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Weinzinger. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e3354	Mr President. Minister! Mr Mitterlehner, I hesitate – but only because you have such a competition for the title – but I have once again tried to give you the title of the “Mister’s Political Rethink” because what you have just pre-examination about how the unemployed will benefit in a serial way from the law you are doing, although it is proven that it will not create a single additional job, was almost ready for stage. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: This will be used to occupy the occupied jobs!]] What is true is that there is a reorientation in government policies in terms of labour market, and I would once roughly share what we had in the past in three stages: We had a stage in which the government – not the current and not the previous – actively tried to create jobs, to give people job opportunities and to qualify them accordingly and to pursue active labour market policies. So creating work was the first phase before. In phase two, it was about managing unemployment. It has been seen that statistics do not exceed a certain standard. One has outsourced in courses “How do I apply right?” for the second, for the third, for the fourth time, and so on. There was therefore an administrative phase of unemployment. Now you go here with your government policy and say: We must fight the unemployed – not unemployment, but the unemployed – and as few as possible. What you are exaggerating – you have now, although you have painted it under other omens, but de facto of course – is: Whoever didn't make it in the first 100 days has bad luck with your government policy. Those who do not belong to the privileged ones who find a new job very quickly in unemployment, or have a relatively fixed prospect at all, have had bad luck, because occupational protection is gone, the protection of pay is degressive, the rules of feasibility are tightened. They do not make any more of the one job that comes on nine jobseekers. You have to explain to me once and, above all, explain to the unemployed how you want to achieve your great 100-day goals when eight to nine jobseekers come to every job that is now available, continuously. My colleague has given you the figures. What good is it for the other eight who do not get the job, if you say that it is reasonable for them to take another profession – that is, there is not – it is reasonable for them to earn less – there is no job too little merit – it is reasonable for them to take one, two hours off time a day if mobility is not given and the job is not there? I'm from Gmünd from the upper forest district. What do you think about how many women there are long-term unemployed? They will have no chance of finding a job with the time of departure that you now define as reasonable. Women in general – with the exception I come to speak to – will tend to be even more difficult to find a job with the provisions on time off. Explain to me: How should a person who may not have the family’s passenger cars available on a daily basis be able to create a journey of up to two hours a day if public transport is not sufficient? You can't even answer – you couldn't even answer that in committee – how you define departure time for a donor. Does it mean that you have to get into the train at 6 a.m. in the morning, so that you can get into the office at some point in the next larger town where the job is two hours later? There we are at four, five hours in the worst case. Is that reasonable? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You can't answer that! Are you going from rest periods or not? [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: You don't understand anything about the economy!]] Are you based on real private, public and other modes of transport? So what you're doing here is an intensification of the rules of visibility. They are sending the unemployed to Nyvana of the unexplained questions, also on other points. They submit a care plan – stay very cool! – which can be specified by the labour market service, but must be respected by the job seeker. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] This is a very strange shift of responsibility to those who, in case of doubt, do not even have a say. That is to say, you are clearly making a law here that helps to reduce the number of unemployed by pushing them out of the unemployment claim. That's how your policy looks! Under these omens, I can only say that the saying you have repeatedly said – every unemployed person is too much – can be quite strangely interpreted. You think that every unemployed person who has not yet achieved the claim is too much for reasons of efficiency and cost. We believe that every person who is looking for work and does not get it is a problem that must be dealt with as quickly as possible by providing effective assistance via qualification measures, accompanying framework measures, so that he can find work again, work from which he can live and which can be used by him in terms of feasibility, so without the need for him to take on any arrivals for hours in order to combine any McJobs. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In this sense, I can only ask you: Turn around from your turn! Return to an active labour market policy – in the interests of the unemployed and not in the interests of cost efficiency!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e3434	The next item is Mrs Silhavy's speech. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e3453	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Weinzinger, I can underline your assessment of the failure of the Federal Government in terms of employment and growth policy, but I cannot share your assessment of this government proposal, but I can tell you that we will give our approval to the Government's proposal as it stands in the Committee's report. I would like to stress positively the need to take care of the care obligations also in the mediation within the place of residence. This is, in any case, a qualitative progress that we can achieve. It is also a very important issue, particularly in the case of part-time employment, especially with regard to poverty prevention and, above all, with regard to the income of women. I would also like to say that the reality shows that large companies that need a labour force employ workers who do not come from the profession that would actually belong to this company, but prefer people with other trainings. This certainly happens for remuneration reasons – you have to say that fairly – but that is fact. We have a not too small farm in the Styria, which could be cited here as an example. Furthermore, I consider the support plan to be a real qualitative progress, taking into account for the first time that existing qualifications – which is an essential point – need to be maintained or extended. I am also pleased, Federal Minister, that parts of our demands regarding the Youth Training Security Act have been addressed. I assume that this is partly due to the fact that there has been negotiations with Vienna and that the city of Vienna in particular has shown that it is willing to use financial resources, not insignificant, so that it can contribute positively to youth employment. In principle, the new time-frame or the assessment of the time of departure is also an improvement, although there are already a few gaps in it. What Is the feasibility “under special conditions” that can then last beyond these two hours? I also see a little critical about the proportion of time spent on part-time work up to 20 hours, because it is a difference whether I have to work five hours a day or four hours a day or once only three hours a day. Because if I work only three hours, then one and a half hours of portability are already a bit exaggerated. In practice, I think a few adjustments or at least a few other assessment and assessment criteria would be appropriate. I do not want to say here, Mr Federal Minister – also to the government groups – that I was very pleased about your mobility, so that we have succeeded in bringing the sanctions back to the original level. I would have liked us to have been able to comply with the initial arrangements of the four weeks, as was the case in the draft, but I am already satisfied – and I really want to say this positively – that you have had the mobility and have declined from the more severe sanctions. Where we have not come to the same level in the negotiations – and I say so – those are the sanctions mechanisms if someone wants to exercise the right to pay at part-time due to false claims, because we believe that it is often harder for part-time workers to prove it than for the authority, that is, for the labour market service. But here is why your statement from the Committee – and I would like to repeat it officially here in the plenary session – that there will be an agreement between the social partners on this issue for implementing and implementing it, and I hope that there will then be some balance. I would like to say critically, Mr Federal Minister, that although you are always beautifully titled your legislative instruments, it has not become a labour market reform law despite everything. The first thing I have to criticize is that, unfortunately, you have been kneeling in front of the economy or the Chamber of Commerce in relation to the draft assessment. I would have liked it if we had finally introduced a voluntary unemployment insurance scheme for self-employed people. This would have given many, many people in atypical conditions, at least a chance to get into this insurance. They have also missed the opportunity to anchor a minimum unemployment allowance. The provision of the appropriate resources for active labour market policy is missing, and I am very surprised, Mr. Federal Minister, that measures are being taken in accordance with the suggestions of your government representative, Mr Blum. On the occasion of his 100-day activity, he has presented a truly excellent report containing numerous suggestions on youth employment. All in all: We agree, but it's what you promise under the title, not in the law.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e3511	Mrs Haidlmayr is speaking next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e3529	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Silhavy's speech is a very unique one. In all the points you have mentioned, you have only criticized the law, rightly criticised it. [[Abg. Silhavy: Not on all points! That's not true!]] Then why do you agree? What's behind that? What kind of counter-action has been made? I think that this question should also be answered. [[Abg. Silhavy: You didn't listen to me, Mrs. Haidlmayr!]] Now to the Unemployment Insurance Act: Mr Dolinschek justified the fact that there is now a change to the unemployment insurance law in the Committee with the aim of improving the quality of the communication of unemployed people faster, more efficient and, above all, more qualitatively. Now I wonder what you want to do faster, more efficient and more qualitatively when nine unemployed people come to an open job. That's ridiculous! In this situation of unemployment which we have, this change in law will not do anything in this direction, but in this regulation there are other profit-makers, and among these profit-makers are simply and simply the companies. Mr Mitterlehner, you have not been able to answer this in committee either, because there is simply no answer, because where I am right, I am right. That's the way it is. I mean § 11, Forbearance in self-announcement. If you look at that, it doesn't sound so stupid at the first moment that even at the time of self-announcement, there is a forbearance that you may not have to comply with the waiting period or shorten or even fall. Then I thought: How's that? Did you suddenly hear that if he loses his job, someone can't sleep on the scarf for a month, so you can give him the money right away from home? But then I came up with it: No, it's not, it's about something completely different. It is about the abolition of the pay-out law, especially small companies, because a company with ten, twelve people can usually not bear it financially if one is longer ill. In the past, you paid in accordance with the pay-out law and in the time when someone was ill, the wage costs plus 12.8 percent were returned from the health insurance. This is no longer the case today, because one has just saved wage side costs – it has been said – and this ERDF rule has been abolished. Small businesses in particular can no longer afford to co-finance someone who is longer unemployed. That is why many companies, if today a sick person, are taking advantage of the opportunity to say: You, be careful, I'll cancel you, and if you're half together again, I'll put you back on! At that time, of course, he falls out of the salary. However, it does not have to be ill, it may also be short-term unemployment in a company that holds five or six weeks' contracts. Then people are terminated and returned after six weeks, and at that time they are practically unemployed reported and get their services from another pot. This would be cheaper for the company than it would have to drag it along. You have clearly supported this, that was your solution, but this solution is of no use to the person concerned, but it is useful exclusively to the company. For the purpose of determining the availability and the protection of the profession: That's a story too! If today someone employed in the metal sector becomes unemployed, for example, a locker, then now he has to take a job again within a certain time – that is, within 100 days –, for example, as an iron bender on a construction site. The income is relatively good there, especially in summer, and he has to do so. I'm just wondering: What does he do if he becomes unemployed as an iron bearer? Then he won't get anything! There are very simple professions in which many unqualified people are still working, and they will have no way of getting a job at all in the future. That means: Unemployment is only strengthened by this law by giving unqualified or poorly qualified people even less opportunities than they had before. On the problem of the time of departure: I specifically asked the Committee what it was like. Mr Mitterlehner, you know the situation, because you know yourself there too. The people who, for example, work in Steyr and live in Hofkirchen or in Losenstein or somewhere in this area stop at six o'clock and are on the train station at six o'clock. But the train only leaves at 8 o'clock. Then these people drive three-quarters of an hour until they get home. – Is it from the end of working time, that is, from the close of business, until the time when he arrives at home, whether he is away or not? – Mr Fassleven said: No, it's certainly not time to leave! That means: These people usually have to sit around on railway stations for three to four hours, because they have to wait for public transport, but this is not considered a time off! So you have not improved the law in this direction by making it clearer, but you have made it even more clear than before. Mrs. Silhavy, I just don't understand you're going there! It is now always said that people are being taught faster and everything is getting better. I mean, There's nothing better, and the previous situation was bad enough. – I am now telling you a case that was sent to me by email this week. A young man is unemployed. He's moved from one district to another and didn't know where to report on the next appointment. He called the old employment office and told him that he was relocated and asked where he had to go now. He was told to visit the employment office in his new residential district. The man then asked when to go there. He then received the answer that this was anyway sausage, he had to report if he had time. Three days later he went there and learned that he had no more emergency aid in the time in question. He just doesn't get it for this time, and no man said that to him! In the future, he gets the unemployed again, but only on the condition that he signs a note – you have to give it to yourself! – that he will look for a job within two months. – I’ve never heard anything like that crazy! You can't commit yourself to getting a job within two months, if you haven't found anything for two years, including a search by the employment office! These are the results of this law. This new regulation has made it even worse. I think: Such a law cannot be accepted, for it is absolutely at the expense of the unemployed and those seeking work, and it is simply not portable what you are doing with them!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e3581	The next speaker was Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e3615	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Now that I have followed the remarks made by the counter-voicers, now by the Greens, I have to say: The Social Spokesman of the Green Oillings was not present in the Committee because he was absent, and the others apparently do not know at all. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That's it!]] This is a problem, otherwise it would not be possible for someone here like Mrs. Weinzig or Mrs. Haidlmayr to say that there is no active labour market policy. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: This is a naughtiness!]] I have to say: I can't understand. Apparently, you have slept what has happened here in recent years. They claim that we manage the unemployed. – Rather, it is the efforts of this federal government in the coalition to have as few unemployed as possible. We know about the labour market situation and are concerned about it. But if you claim that the situation in Austria is particularly bad, then make a comparison with other European countries or international! Then you will find out: We're great here! We are not fighting unemployment, we are fighting unemployment! That's fact. If you follow Mr Silhavy's remarks, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, then you will find: There is criticism where one wants to expand further improvements which are not yet possible. That's understandable. But they have also heard – and I am particularly happy about that – that the SPÖ will be here. With regard to sanctions, we have succeeded, as Mrs Silhavy mentioned earlier, in taking them back to the usual level and leaving them to the same extent. I share their opinion that these sanctions would have brought nothing at all. Otherwise, however, there are substantial improvements. Mrs Haidlmayr! If I say that the placement of unemployed people with this labour market reform law is made faster, better and more efficient, this is naturally in the sense of the unemployed, because no unemployed person is seeking to remain in unemployment, but that he gets a job! The existing rules on feasibility will now be ignored. Instead, the accessibility of the workplace is determined within a reasonable time, within a quarter of daily working hours, and with regard to the different regional and personal circumstances, the rigid setting of a border in the law is now abandoned. The assessment of the appropriateness of the time of departure is now carried out taking into account the relationship between the time of departure and the average normal working time of the day, and the distance control, as was usual so far, is lifted. The protection of the profession is also transformed into a protection of remuneration, and I must say that: A professional protection, if the corresponding KV is poor and little is paid or nobody exists, has no sense at all! It is important that you have a payment insurance, and a fee protection is now being introduced, for the first 120 days at the level of 80 percent of the underlying fee. That's 80 percent of the previous average earnings, and 75 percent of the rest of the time is paid out. Occupational protection will continue to exist for 100 days, this will also be defined in this way and, as a general rule, the resumption of employment in the current field of activity will be possible within this period. By restricting this protection to 100 days, the risk of the emergence or fortification of long-term unemployment is reduced. That is the purpose and purpose, and this is an active labour market policy, ladies and gentlemen. An improvement in the care requirement has also been mentioned today. The government template provides that this three-year extension of unemployment benefit in the form of emergency assistance and in the case of the care of family members in the form of care allowance in Stage 3 – which has been planned so far – is due, provided that the pension insurance is continued. The care plan – and this was also positively assessed by most of the previous speakers – is now incorporated in the AMS Act. On the basis of the situation in the apprenticeship market, good measures in the field of youth training such as courses are also promoted and maintained. Moreover, the mandatory issue of a duty to provide services for free service is an information basis for the rights and obligations arising from these employment relationships integrated into this labour market reform law, and I believe that this is a good and right thing.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e3673	Mr Bartenstein, Federal Minister, spoke from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e3691	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! This labour market reform package – and of course I am honouring this title, Mrs Silhavy! – is a groundbreaking reform package and writes a new chapter especially in terms of visibility. Let me begin by formulating a few sentences on the situation in the labour market, without simply addressing unemployment figures! – Austria is in a happy position to have a relatively flexible labour market, not even since I have been responsible as Minister of Labour. That will benefit us. The dynamics of this labour market is high, a dynamic which is also expressed by the fact that – of course including seasonal employment – about every second job is re-occupied per year and thus there is the likelihood that people who get into unemployment will also get back into work relatively quickly, either themselves or with support from the AMS; the way is then secondary, the main thing it works! We are in a much better situation than Germany, France and most other EU Member States. In reality, the German labour market reforms, which run under the title Hartz 1 to Hartz 4, are complementary to what has been developed in Austria over the years. Not without reason, the Hartz Commission was also often with us and at the AMS in Austria and – which is absolutely okay – has taken what works well with us into these German reform packages. In the end, this is also reflected in the fact that in Austria we already have an average term of about 100 days for unemployed people. This government, the Cabinet Schüssel II, has set itself the goal of coming down to 90 days. In Germany this duration is far, far higher. Again: At this point, I do not want to focus on unemployment, but above all on labour market flexibility. At the same time, we have been able to act particularly successfully with the target groups in Austria: More is being done for women and their labour market problems than for men. We are also on the road successfully with the target group of young people. Thank God, in the end also thanks to the measures put in place, youth unemployment is falling, Mr. Ollinger, very much, not only those up to the 19-year-olds, that is, those young people who are essentially in a teaching. Rather, the unemployment rate has declined for the first time in the group of up to 25 years. This is also to be said that you did not mention that. The development of older people is also: The over fifty-year-olds are better off in the labour market than the 25-50-year-olds. In this area too, unemployment is falling. I hope that, in the foreseeable future, we will be able to discuss again and again about declining unemployment rates! Long-term unemployment has also been identified as a problem in time. The AMS is very successful in doing so with its active labour market policy with many NGOs as supporters and cooperation partners. Let me now thank the social partners, after they have said so, for the heart of this labour market reform package is, of course, the rewording of the rules on the availability of the labour market. This is not an intensification, Mr Oellinger, but a modernisation in the interests of the workers of that country and in the interests of the unemployed. I would like to thank the negotiators, for whom President Vergebnnitsch and President Leitel have presented the results paper to me. Of course, it was our concern, and my concern, to implement this social partners' will into a law, which was not technically easy. So it is not about the fact that, after very dedicated negotiations in the committee today, the large opposition party can give its assent, for which I thank you very much, Mrs Silhavy, as a representative of your group. – By the way: It's a shame President Vergestnich can't be there! Good improvement! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! But let me also say a few words on youth training. I have already noticed that the measures are taking place. There are some provisions that are developing youth training. . We have to live with the situation that we need special measures for at least the next three to five years on the basis of strong-birthed vintages, which are going after, and on the basis of an economy which, at least, cannot provide as many apprenticeships as I would like. We have now established a network of 7 000 places in connection with the courses. By the way, this was not invented by me, but the social partners, including the government representatives, have formulated it in the AMS Board of Directors. If that is too little, it will have to be extended. This net will be so wide knit and so large that all the boys who otherwise will not find a teaching place, i.e. the guarantee that everyone and every youth in this country who does not find a teaching place will have at least one course, ladies and gentlemen, dear! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We have further developed this in agreement with the social partners, as some suggestions have also come from the employee side. These courses can now – but do not have to – be extended to 12 months. There is an obligation for the AMS to teach young people either to a regular apprenticeship or to transfer them to the next course. This reform package also includes the possibility of a fourth course, including preparation for the degree examination. In other words, there is a not equivalent, but at least acceptable second way for those boys in Austria who do not find a regular apprenticeship, although I say at this point: Mr Mitterlehner! Let us look at what is possible in Germany! There is a training pact on some of the ten thousand teaching or training places which are promised by the economy. We also have a training pact in Austria, which the Federal Chancellor has concluded with the President of the Chamber of Commerce and with me, and which also states that a certain percentage of each year of birth comes into dual vocational training. And it is important that this is also implemented. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Komerzialrat Blum, the government representative on apprenticeship training and youth employment, has been mentioned. There is broad acceptance also on the workers' and trade unions' side, and that is a good thing. – We will work with Commercial Council Blum especially towards even better ways to complete the professional maturity test – from my point of view: the professional matura. It is about establishing a number of concrete practice-oriented teaching professions. It is about over-company training facilities in addition to course models, and it is ultimately also about training associations that make it easier for companies to work together in the training of young people. Here we are on the right track, and I am convinced that, as it is traditional, we will also decide on everything or at least almost everything in consensus in the field of youth training, both at the social level and here in the House. Let me, Mr President, briefly address some of the critical remarks made by Members, whom I cannot leave behind. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Oellinger! If you are talking about the sharpest rules on Europe's visibility, I would advise you: Look at Red-Green in Germany! There your friends have shared responsibility, and there someone can be transferred to a job without any care obligations throughout the German federal territory. Therefore, it is more important for Germany than for us to speak of the sharpest rules of visibility. 66 percent, i.e. two thirds of active labour market policy funds are spent on qualification measures and the trend is rising. You are not right in this respect either. They speak of 300,000 unemployed. They take the unemployment rate, add those in training, and then invent pensioners. [[Abg. Oils: It's not invented!]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Oellinger! I stick to the statistics that have been produced in a proven manner for years and days in the same way by the AMS responsible, and according to these, we currently have some over 200 000 unemployed. Thank God, Mrs Silhavy, we have now agreed a lot with Vienna. I hope that the measures here will soon be taken. From today's point of view, we have about 400 unemployed more in the middle of June across Austria than in the previous year. That is to say, at the moment, the rise in unemployment seems to have been almost halted. In Vienna, however, there are about 4,000 unemployed in the annual period. This problem has been recognised, and I hope that the measures will take place and that the social partners and the political leaders in Vienna can take concrete steps. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As I said, Also 200 000 unemployed are too many of us, that is beyond question, each individual is too much. But there is no milkmaid bill in this respect. Mr Oellinger is no longer in the hall, but Mrs Haidlmayr said so: It's a milkmaid bill when you say that so and so many open jobs are reported to the AMS and so on and so many people are looking for jobs. That disqualifies itself! You know very well that the most open positions are not reported to the AMS at all. Mr Oellinger, structurally important is that the total number of job openings is now rising again. This is one of the swallows that hopefully will bring a little summer in the labour market too soon! Mrs Weinzinger, I am quite accustomed to pointed polemics in the politics of many. That's not a problem! But let me reject it, even if you are not in the hall now! It's a shame when the debate is over. They speak of three phases: “Create work!” was once the slogan of the government. – Unfortunately, a government has never created jobs for God! If so, a government with the legislator has created the framework conditions, and the companies have created jobs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Then that unemployment would have been managed. And now we'd fight the unemployed! – So that is no longer pointed, that is polemic, and I strongly reject this in the interests of the unemployed in this country, even if you are not in the hall now, Madam Member! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs Silhavy, with regard to unemployment insurance for self-employed persons, I say to you: It's spooked up, it's not gone. We are not yet ready, but I am quite prepared to carry on this project. You can't want a minimum unemployment allowance, too, ladies and gentlemen, because with a minimum unemployment allowance in the sense of a defined sum, injustice to part-time workers will automatically arise, which will then have less than some who simply have a minimum unemployment allowance. – It never works. We have introduced social parameters – that was me, that was not a predecessor, but it happened after the year 2000 – by establishing that single people without care obligations then, if their unemployment benefit is below the minimum of existence, at least 60 percent – not 55 percent – receive net replacement rates, and if they have care obligations, they receive a net replacement rate of 80 percent. We have therefore put in place measures there, but there is already quite a narrow limit to the creation of injustices. It can never be that way – at least from my point of view – that unemployment is also financially worthwhile. In this respect too, incentives are needed to get back into employment. [[Abg. Silhavy: But it can't be that a performance...!]] Dear Mrs Haidlmayr, also to your address a few words on payment: Apart from the fact that I still think it would be useful to transfer this “risk” – under quotation marks – to the operational level and to avoid creating additional labour costs, this has nothing to do with unemployment at all, but only with the subject of the sick. I have already tried to make this clear to you in the Committee. I have to say it again today because you mentioned it again in your plenary session. Thank you once again to the three political groups which have approved this proposal today, as well as to the social partners. From my point of view, this agreement is not worth much less than the agreement on “handling new”, workers’ care for all, and to put it at a stage with the really groundbreaking reform of the protection of workers. Thank you very much and thank you, Mr President, for giving the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e3778	The next speaker was Mr Fassleven. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e3796	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen from the Green Group! I have the impression that today you are doing a little hard with the rejection of this bill. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] If even Mrs Silhavy, who does not allow an opportunity to pass by, accuse the government and the government parties of “social cold”, confesses and announces that their group will give its approval, then perhaps you should consider it too! [[Abg. Silhavy: Well, well!]] [[Call the ÖVP: You revoked?]] [[Abg. Oils: We're green!]] It is essentially because there is a social partnership agreement. [[Abg. Oillinger: What does that have to do with it?]] That is to say, after long negotiations with the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Agriculture, the Chamber of Labour and the Trade Union have given their agreement to this regulation, and I am very happy about it. [[Abg. Oellinger: Are you singing a song of praise to the social partners?]] I think they should have made this scheme even a few years earlier. That would have been beneficial for people looking for work. We believe that there is hardly anything more difficult for a human being than to have no work, perhaps apart from illness. [[Abg. Oillinger: Yes, I believe so!]] This affects people in their substance, in their dignity. This is far enough in their very personal relationships and is not difficult enough to estimate. To that end, we also need to deal with what we can do to help these people. [[Abg. Elder: jobs, jobs, jobs!]] I also said this in committee: I come from a community where 80 percent of people have to work outside. On average you have between five and 20 minutes' journey time to the train station, then over an hour's journey time by train and, if you are in Vienna, on average again between five minutes and half an hour's journey by public transport. They have never understood that some of them have already been rejected by some unemployed jobs at half the time of departure, because this is not supposed to be reasonable. [[Abg. Ollinger: Do you know these unemployed people?]] I therefore believe that this regulation is really a real step forward and also a more socially just one – also with regard to the others who have to live under precisely these conditions. That is why I do not understand that you continue to maintain this attitude. I am particularly pleased that we are dealing with the individual problems by taking care of the care obligations much more closely than was the case in the past. I believe that we should do much more to find real problem-related solutions, as has been achieved in the AMS sector in recent years, to bring a significant improvement – as the Federal Minister has done – from the unemployment administration to employment placement. [[Abg. Oils: What improved unemployment?]] We must continue because it was true that in the past many companies did not report their open jobs at all because they felt that what comes from the employment office is often not sufficient in the qualification or seriousness of the application. On the contrary: We must separate between those who are statistically unemployed and those who are willing to work and who are unemployed. The latter must be provided with all the means so that they can actually find work. They must be much more distinguished from those who at certain times may not be so particular about finding work simply because they want to bridge a time span or whatever. You know very well that more than half of those who appear in unemployment statistics do not take up a job afterwards, but move into any other situation. [[Abg. Oillinger: Do you have jobs for them?]] In my opinion, we should consider whether we want to find a new system that is much more and better related to this problem in the longer term – I say that it is now completely detached from this situation. Our task must be to help those who are looking for work and need work. It is more important to separate them from those who simply refer to unemployment benefits for some reason, whether this is for a short time, because they are in seasonal employment or whatever. If we do not, we miss out on our task of achieving a maximum of efficiency with the available resources. Much has already happened in this area. This is also due, among other things, to the Federal Minister and his officials. I congratulate what has been done so far and wish that this will continue consistently in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e3971	The next speaker was Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e3990	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs Haidlmayr, my colleague, Mr Heidrun Silhavy, has not only criticized this law, of course she has also pointed out its positive side and has explained why we will vote in favour of this law on the basis of social democracy today. Nevertheless, we are also aware that this law cannot be the cure for the problems of unemployment and the strained labour market. It is not enough to pass a law and think that it solves all the problems. I think that the problems are far too versatile and too complex. We are well aware of the social democracy. Unemployment affects almost all occupational groups. In the past, it was rather so that the less skilled people were more often affected by unemployment. Today it is sufficient to enter all professional groups and professional classes. This is a serious problem. Each third worker or employee is affected by unemployment at least once a year. Mr Fassleven! I would warn against saying that there may be people who like to stay in unemployment. I don't think so otherwise we would say to the Austrians that one third of all workers are too lazy to work. I don't think that's in our sense. It is also affected by every age group, from the very young to the elderly. Long-term unemployment is increasing in my knowledge and not diminishing, as Mr Mitterlehner has said. – On the contrary: Long-term unemployment has increased by 17 percent compared to the previous year. Ladies and gentlemen! You see, unemployment has long been no longer a marginal problem, but it is a problem that can happen to every Austrian and every Austrian. I think this is a problem that needs to be seen and taken seriously and that it should not always be done with lapidar comparisons with other EU countries. I believe that this is not a service to anyone, neither to the unemployed, nor to us who want to support it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I don't think it makes sense to wait for the economy to start. There must be a clear declaration of will by the responsible politicians, first of all by you, Minister, in order to recognize the problem and also to develop measures that really fight unemployment at its root. If we decide on this law today and if we really want to do something for the unemployed people – and I say now that we all want it – I think a few things should be started as soon as possible. Firstly, and above all, it is my personal conviction that we must take unemployment and, in particular, the unemployed people seriously that we should not put them in corners where we do not want them to stand. There are already applications from the Greens and the Social Democrats for the co-participation of unemployed people. Perhaps you think seriously about whether you cannot discuss this with us and consider it! Secondly – and I am convinced of this too – it is necessary to provide the AMS with resources and personnel resources, otherwise, the care plans in the law will unfortunately only be on the paper. We all know the tense situation in the AMS, and I think it is important to provide personnel resources. I do not think it makes any sense to rework the funds, depending on which group is particularly affected by unemployment. Minister! You mentioned in the Committee and now again that youth and older workers have reduced unemployment. That may be true and true, but there is a gap between the 25-year-olds and 49-year-olds. You know that, too. Women's unemployment has also increased exorbitantly. I think that this shifting of resources does not make sense in the long term, but it is necessary to provide sufficient resources to help all unemployed people. Very briefly – since the light is already flashing –: I think one should also look at unemployment with regard to the individual affected people. It's behind. These 250 000 people, currently unemployed or in training, are also 250 000 single-sicks and 250 000 families. Unemployment always means a loss of self-confidence for the people concerned. They often have no confidence in their abilities when they are longer unemployed. How should it be for a unemployed person if he is not allowed to do anything in our performance-oriented society? Unemployment also means more and more entry into the debt trap. The average unemployment benefit, as we all know, for women €610 and for men €787, the emergency aid is still a lot lower if you get one at all. How to pay in the long term? This is the entry into debt, and debt and low self-confidence are certainly not conducive to a job interview or a new job, because this is simply a situation that endangers the unemployed people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I therefore think that a decent life assurance for unemployed people must be a goal of all of us. Finally, my appeal to all members of the National Council: In fact, we are fighting unemployment together, not the unemployed! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4096	The next speaker was Mr Walch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4114	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am annoyed a little if the Green Group and, unfortunately, the last speaker in the SPÖ say that we have 300,000 unemployed. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: We did!]] - Please, I have the statistics of the AMS. You won't assume that they're liars there. [[Abg. Oellinger: Please go!]] These statistics state that we had 215 495 unemployed in May. The percentage of unemployed young people aged 15 to 24 has fallen by 5.2 percent, the older, over 50-year-old unemployed has fallen by 9.1 percent. The number of job openings has increased by 13 percent and the number of job seekers has fallen by 1.9 percent. [[Abg. Riepl: It's more than last year!]] I know it's difficult, but please, let's stick to the truth and let's not do it any worse than it is! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This government is taking action, and not a few! I think I have to go back to the speaker's desk. This government has put in place many measures, has adopted billions of economic packages and has provided many funding for apprentices, young people and also for older people. This government is investing! Of course, as I come from the construction industry, I am particularly pleased that the Minister for Infrastructure is billions in road and rail development. The engine of the economy is the construction industry: When the construction industry flourishes, there is also work in the rest of the economic sectors. This proposal to amend the labour market promotion law has not made anyone. I do not understand, Mr Oellinger, why you have no confidence in the social partners. The social partners have also seen the need to help. I cannot assume to the unemployed that they want to be unemployed for 100 or more days. You want work! [[Abg. Oils: They don't get them!]] Measures have now been taken to ensure that labour market management also takes appropriate steps to provide information to the unemployed within 100 days, including income protection. Look at what it looks like in practice when someone is canceled and then returns to his profession! Do you really imagine that he has the same pay as he did at the previous company, even if he was unemployed for only two months? - It doesn't play! [[Abg. Oils: Eben!]] Now, the positive situation is that it has to get 80 percent. [[Abg. Oils: Not “must”!]] Many good things are contained in this bill, Mr Oellinger, so I simply do not understand you. The 100-day professional protection I mentioned also helps. I know only the unemployed who come to see us who are unemployed for 14 days, three weeks or more and who are naturally interested in getting a job. The care plan is important because the employment office is not supposed to manage but to mediate. In reality, we have again exerted pressure on the AMS so that we can take care of the mediation there. But let's see what happens in practice: If I say that there are 27 000 open jobs – even the Minister has already said so – then that is not true. Ladies and gentlemen! Most of the businesses turn ads and thus get workers. But we don't want to. This money can be used differently in the operation. If people are communicated by the AMS in the short term, then the ads will also belong to the past. The AMS is also there for this, for which we pay tax fees. I would therefore request that this draft law be approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4223	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Scheucher-Pichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4242	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I think this bill has already been very detailed by the pro- and counter-voicers. I'm trying to get back together. What is the importance of this government? What is the aim of this government policy? – The individual care of the unemployed, the rapid and efficient placement of jobs, the support of professional reorientation, the reduction of the number of long-term unemployed, a fair and reasonable regulation of the distance and time off, and – I would like to stress this in particular – the protection of caregivers. These are the objectives of this government, and with this government template we are taking a very decisive step in the right direction. This, ladies and gentlemen, especially from the Green Group, is active labour market policy! This is job security! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As you have mentioned the care plan, I think it is a matter of building on qualifications here and anchoring it by law. The are decisive improvements also towards faster, more efficient mediation, and this is done through appropriate qualifications. It is human and social that people quickly find work again. This is a matter of individual fate; in this respect I am with my colleague from the SPÖ. It is really about finding a job as quickly as possible for workers. But it is also important to get faster and more efficient qualified employees from the economic aspect – I am also saying this as an entrepreneur. The reduction in the number of long-term unemployed has already been addressed, including the establishment of a 100-day occupational protection system. – This too is an important aspect to be able to work more efficiently. It is important for women to: An individual remuneration protection is introduced as a complement to the changed professional protection. In concrete terms, this means that the remuneration from the employment offered during the first 120 days of the reference of unemployment benefit shall not be less than 80 percent. I say this again, consciously, because this is particularly important for part-time workers, especially for women who have part-time employment. This measure is an effective income protection measure, which is very important for women in particular, I also say from the point of view of the female speaker. The rules on visibility have already been mentioned. There, too, I think, the assessment of road times is an important improvement. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me two more comments from the point of view of women and from the point of view of young people. I mean, the guarantee of an extension of the three-year extension period of unemployment benefit and emergency assistance in the care of a family with care allowance from the 3rd grade – so far it was care level 4 – is an important human aspect, an important aspect also towards the family and a correct aspect towards the generation contract. I think that too we should be positive in relation to this bill and see it positively. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Federal Minister has also addressed this. Important progress is being made for young people towards improving the professional maturity law, towards practical training. The proven measures of the Youth Training Security Act will be extended. The duration of the course may be extended to up to 12 months, and the course preparation for the course examinations will be established. I think that is also a very important aspect. Every unemployed youth is too much, there is nothing bitter than when a young person has completed a good training and then finds no job. That is why this point is also a very important aspect of this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude by saying: All these measures mean active labour market policy! I'm glad it's a three-party request. I am an enthusiastic supporter of the social partners. I'm happy about it and think, too, that's a positive aspect that we've found a consensus here.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4321	The next speaker was Mrs Scharer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4341	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! If only everything were so simple in the field of employment policy! In principle, all improvement measures aimed at preventing or ending unemployment are very positive in order to avoid unemployment from the outset. Whether the present rules on availability, as the labour market reform law, are the right regulatory work, I believe is doubtful, because, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the best care plan, the most reasonable time-limit, the most sophisticated occupational protection and pay protection regulations do not solve the employment problems in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Labour market policy as a central theme for the population should never be considered isolated from better conditions for workers. It's very easy to compare quotas. And always – I feel that way – if you don't know how to help yourself, you refer to the problems in Germany. This is of little use to the individual unemployed. Ladies and gentlemen! At the end of May, there were 28 000 job vacancies, compared with 215,000 job seekers, i.e. eight job-seekers come to a reported job. To talk about the efficiency of the labour market service as soon as it can mediate this desire to be able to carry out this mediation 1 : 1 so that in the final effect no unemployed are left, that is actually a wish for the Christian child. For all well-intentioned training and qualification measures, Minister: The jobs are missing! This game with the unemployed – if you have this qualification, you have a job, but if you have the qualification, unfortunately the job is gone – is reality. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is a lack of sufficient public transport in rural areas. Above all, Mr Minister – I have repeatedly pointed out to you in the Committee – the AMS lacks more than 100 employees in order to be able to take the additional measures of this government. This law also means an additional administration for the employees of the AMS and could be done much more efficiently if enough employees are available. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In addition, there is a lack of family policy measures, there is a lack of childcare facilities with appropriate opening hours for the labour market, there is a lack of qualified part-time jobs. I can still get in touch. Your government statement reminds you when you announced that you want to increase the female employment rate dramatically. In 2002, we had a female employment rate of 42.1 percent, of 42.6% in 2003. This is an increase of only 0.5 percent, especially since you know that this growth is based purely on part-time workers, on precarious or minor employment conditions that are not existential. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: That's not true, Mrs. Colleague! It's well over 60 percent!]] Regrettably, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pity that you reject all the requests for improvement - own-initiative proposals, motions for resolutions - from the opposition. You, Mr. Minister, give us the feeling that you will give us the sense of understanding: Yes, this development of unemployment and the framework conditions must be taken into account in this way. Mr Minister, create better framework conditions, then we also have good opportunities to deal with the problem of work or employment! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4399	The next speaker was Mrs Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4417	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Sometimes I think that even the greens simply close themselves to reality. You know in many areas the discrepancy between a relatively high level of socket unemployment on the one hand and enough open spaces on the other. And yet: If companies are looking for employees, they do not find these employees. We know the eternal debate on seasonal eggs and harvest workers, we know the debate in tourism, we know the debate in the service sector, we know the debate in the commercial sector. It is precisely this law that requires that more targeted mediation should finally be possible and that this call for seasonal kidneys and after the increase of the quotas should finally end. The individual AMS posts, as well as they could, have so far communicated, but they were in place where it was really about more targeted mediation also across district borders and about the mediation of long-term unemployed, namely, where it did not allow the legal possibilities to provide more targeted. That is why we are very pleased that mediation is now being possible across district borders. I just remember two examples: It was not yet possible to transfer a salesman from Vienna to Vösendorf. – It is unimaginable in today’s time that these district boundaries cannot be overcome! - Or: A cook from Upper Carinthia was not even traceable to Radstadt. These are things that have also contributed to the continued unemployment of the base. The following, Minister of State: They have our support everywhere when it comes to increasing the financial resources, especially where the AMS needs more resources, for example, to convert the computer, because, as I know, the AMS-EDV is not even so far as the individual AMS-stations can make room for mediation across district borders. To the city of Vienna: The majority of unemployment is at home in the city of Vienna. You must also take note of the SPÖ! Crossing the district borders will make it possible for one to communicate from Vienna to the individual districts, of course, at reasonable time. As far as youth unemployment is concerned: The teaching centre market in Austria has developed so positively in two federal states, namely in Carinthia and Tyrol, so that more than 100 teaching places are offered in both Carinthia and Tyrol, than there are job seekers there. – If you look at the numbers in Vienna: 978 job seekers and only 199 teaching places open to them! This is a drama that is really due to a false policy in the city of Vienna! Again: Wrong youth policy and wrong labour market policy in the city of Vienna! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] To date, the fight against long-term unemployment has not been possible to the extent that there has simply been an obstacle to work as a result of more rigid occupational protection, It is also in relation to the placement of long-term unemployed. I am pleased that, as a result of an agreement on behalf of the social partners, it will now be possible to find a solution – with a protection of remuneration – so that, if someone is unemployed for a very long time, it will be possible to get rid of professional protection. Finally, Mr Federal Minister, I would like to ask you to accept a great deal of concern from us liberals, namely equality of teaching with all the other vocational training. And I'll just say, The Carinthian way, that for the first time a professional matura will be free, is the way in the right direction. Mr Federal Minister, I would like to ask you to consider how we can enable young people to have equal opportunities in the future and achieve equality with any other maturant. This is really a big concern for us liberals – and I also think that this is a new motivation for the apprentices, how they are dealt with by being Matura Matura and should also be free of charge for everyone. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4485	The next speaker was Mrs Riener. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4503	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! In advance, Mr Scharer's statement, which I would like to draw attention to the fact that the female employment rate is 62.8%, this trend is still rising – and Austria is already above the Lisbon target. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This labour market reform law is a good law, but it is in line with the new requirements of the labour market and, inter alia, with long-term unemployment. As I know our Federal Minister Bartenstein – and also the other members of the government – it will certainly continue in this proven way if new requirements on the labour market arise. In this debate, I would like to limit myself to three topics, or I would like to highlight them in particular. First: In relation to the availability, it is noted, inter alia, that the possibility of complying with the statutory care obligations must be ensured. I am particularly pleased with the clarifications in the explanatory remarks that the care of children in early and primary school years is recognised. Why? – In my work as a social worker, I had – thank God! – to deal with employees in the AMS, who at the time have already taken into account that the care of children is also important in terms of unemployment insurance funds and that all-day jobs for mothers have not been provided. – The ÖVP shows once again that it is the family party. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, I also welcome the fact that, for the period of three years in which unemployment benefits are paid for all those – which has already been mentioned several times – who care for the care-needed, in the future, care level 4 is no longer just the care level 3 of needs. This is why I see this as very important, because, as we all know, care allowance classifications are very un- be handled in a different way. – The ÖVP is therefore also the party that undertakes and takes care obligations seriously! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thirdly, The introduction of individual care plans for unemployed persons – which has already been mentioned – is also very pleasing, as the unemployed are being discussed with the unemployed, measures are being developed to improve the opportunities for mediation and, in principle, agreement is reached. However, I can also recover something from the fact that, in the end, without the agreement of the unemployed persons, a binding care plan is drawn up, because every person – we all know here – has his subjective view of things, especially if he is affected by it himself. This discussion of the care plans can certainly lead to new insights and changes in behaviour. – The ÖVP with Minister of Economic Affairs Martin Bartenstein thus places people at the centre of its own situation! [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] Conclusion: This government and the ÖVP, under Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel, in particular, demonstrate by this labour market reform law that people with their families, caring families and their personal situation are at the heart of their policies.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4602	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4621	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The 11 000 teaching places are already missing – and at the end of the school, there are still thousands of job seekers streaming to the labour market. [[Abg. Rossmann: In Vienna!]] The aim of these young people is to get full vocational training, a future-promising job. And with this, every net – like that of the Youth Education Security Act – can only be the second best solution at best, but is absolutely necessary, because no civilized society must allow young people to stand on the streets unemployed! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So I am glad that this government template continues to acknowledge the JASG – and some of our proposals for improvement have also been included, so that courses can take 12 months to complete, but do not have to. Mr Bartenstein, be assured of this: We will take care of how this will look in practice – and also whether all those who need a job will actually get one, as you have promised, Mr Minister, here today. The second positive point is that the school year 2005 has already been included, so that at least next year the tremor may not be able to see whether this measure will continue or not. However, we call for the SPÖ to ensure that these important measures are safeguarded permanently and that the abstract restrictions and deadlines are removed, since all economic research institutes do not forecast relaxation on the teaching centre market in the next six to seven years. – You, Mr Federal Minister, obviously expect a more rapid improvement in the economic situation of Austria, only: With you it will not be possible to do so; for this we already need another federal government, namely a social democratically-led Bun-de-Government! And: The sooner, the better for our country! – But maybe have [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] You already included these considerations in your forecasts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Controller.]] JASG measures, Mr Minister, must not be misunderstandingd as a "parking space" in order to beautify or conceal youth unemployment. The time in the JASG must be actively used to strengthen young people in their personality and to qualify for a job. There's no way to save! That's good enough! Therefore, the financing of the JASG should not be exclusively from the resources of labour market support. In order to ensure quality, tax resources should also be used. Finally, it is about the future of our youth, and it should be worth it to us, I mean. You, ladies and gentlemen, on the right side of this House, the future of young people at the last meeting of the Committee on Youth was not even worth a discussion, because you have already postponed our proposal on "Opening Youth Fair Opportunities for the Future" by your majority. I do not know why you do not want to address this issue, because better vocational and educational advice, free-of-charge follow-up of the primary school for all, training guarantee for all young people, a fair balance between training and non-training firms, the highest quality of apprenticeship training – all of this should be your concern, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Amon: Is it too!]] We urgently need a broadening of training, which also offers prospects for the future, when the requirements of the economy change, and no narrow-track training that leads to a dead end. Youth unemployment is not only an ever-increasing political problem; it is a social explosive; it is a human tragedy. And not even wanting to talk about it is a shame!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4711	The next speaker was Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4729	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! As a young Member of Parliament, I am pleased that this labour market reform law will also provide important measures for our apprenticeships market and thus for our youth. We all know from our daily political work in our constituencies that it is one of the most important concerns of our youth to find a teaching centre, a job, a job. That is why today's decision extends the best practice of the Youth Training Security Act, thus providing training for all young people in the next two years who are looking for an apprenticeship. The duration of the course will be extended to up to 12 months, and additional courses will be set up for the preparation of the course examination. In other words, it will create an even better reception network for those who do not find a teaching post, and the course time will be counted and can therefore be used efficiently for the individual. So again, an important and correct step towards the loss of youth unemployment! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Current labour market data show that we are on the right path by the government parties. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the two economic recovery packages and the targeted youth employment package have their effect. This is demonstrated by the decline in unemployment among under 25 and the decline in age unemployment among 49-59. Austria recorded a youth unemployment rate of 6.5 percent in May of this year following Austrian calculation. This means a decrease compared to the comparison period of the previous year of 5.2 percent. Not without pride, ladies and gentlemen, I refer to Upper Austria, where the best values of all Austria can be found with a youth unemployment of 4.3 percent. I would be glad if I could present such encouraging data from any federal state. I think the figures of Vienna are right. In statistics, the red Vienna – I know you don't like to hear that, but you have to say it – both in the case of youth unemployment with 9.1 percent and in the total unemployment data with 9.4 percent up, distorting the overall Austrian good data base. [[Abg. Marizzi: Stop the old shame!]] [[Abg. I know, it's crazy.]] [[Abg. Nürnberger: (in the direction of ÖVP) Writes something wrong!]] Austria has one of the lowest unemployment rates at 6.3 percent and is second in the EU behind Luxembourg. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Allow me a game of thought: If Vienna could present as good a figure as we have in Upper Austria with 3.7 percent, then we would already be number one in the EU, ladies and gentlemen. [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] However, I also consider the further changes made by this draft law, which, in particular, concerns the flexibility of the rules on availability, to be very good measures. So far, there have always been different assessments of what is reasonable and what is not. This now falls away, and more will be addressed to the different regional and personal circumstances – away from the rigid definition of a border in the law. The adaptations to occupational and remuneration protection as well as the preparation of an individual care plan for each job seeker are also key elements in this draft. Every unemployed person is too much. I can only welcome and underline measures to reduce unemployment benefits and to improve the placement of workers. I would like to thank you, Mr President, as an employee representative of this Federal Government, for this important reform of the labour market, and I would also like to thank you for the broad consensus here in the House and for your approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4828	The next speaker was Mr Dobnigg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4846	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! The SPÖ will agree to this labour market reform law, but still has some reservations or proposals. I would like to make a brief point on some points. Before, Mr Wöginger: I do not think we need to point one another out to the federal states in which there may be another political majority. Even with us in the Styria, where the ÖVP has the majority, there are very many – too many! – youth unemployed. I think we are invited to create and help conditions here, because it's right what you said: Every single unemployed person, young or old, is too much! It's a family sendal behind it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Marizzi: They have other concerns with the EStAG!]] Unfortunately, the situation of young people in the apprenticeship market is increasing. My previous speakers have already pointed out that around 10,000 young people in 2004 will be dependent on measures under the Youth Training Security Act. In view of this very unpleasant and already alarming situation, it is therefore necessary to put in place speediest measures in terms of apprenticeship training on the part of policy. I believe that there are not only too few teaching places in my Leoben district, but also in many other districts and regions in Austria. Many of you, ladies and gentlemen, will be confronted with this every day, as I am likely, and will be visited by teachers, whose parents, grandparents, siblings have spoken about and asked for help. Unfortunately, it is often no longer possible to help us. The alarming number of job seekers and this negative development has been known for several months. Nevertheless, there is a lack of appropriate initiatives and activities on the part of this Federal Government. But in one, I hope, we all agree: Youth is our future. And today's youth also needs a corresponding future! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the company I work in, where voestalpine is located in Donawitz, more than 250 school leavers have applied for an apprenticeship in recent months. Of this we can offer just 30 young people an apprenticeship. 30 out of 250 young people! [[Abg. Marizzi: A scandal!]] The rest of them have to continue searching, and unfortunately most will probably be there in the autumn without a apprenticeship. [[Abg. Marizzi: This is a scandal!]] This situation certainly exists not only in my home district, but also in your district or region, ladies and gentlemen. That is why we need to strengthen and speedily set up initiatives for the provision of appropriate teaching facilities. As at present, it cannot and must not continue! We all know that in the future we need well-trained skilled workers – this also confirms a study by the Chamber of Commerce – only these skilled workers need to be trained accordingly. A course offered in the short term serves as a bridge, but does not really solve the problem. That is why there is only one co-operation between the economy and politics. At present, the costs of apprenticeship training in Austria are, in my opinion, unfairly distributed among companies. That is why those companies that do not train apprentices, according to the SPÖ proposal, will in future make a financial contribution to a fund. This money should then be given to those establishments that train apprentices. In addition, the apprenticeship fund should also increase the motivation of businesses to train apprentices. And the existing teaching workshops should also be used more for apprenticeship training in the future. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I and my group believe that all young people must have the right to an apprenticeship or a place in further education. It should therefore not and should not be a youth without a training place! Federal Minister Bartenstein! You made the statement at the last meeting of the Committee last week: The disciples deserve special opportunities. – I agree with this statement to 100 percent. But put this statement into practice for the benefit of our youth! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4940	The next speaker was Mrs Marek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4958	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The law to be adopted today is once again a draft which takes account of actual circumstances and needs. The fact that a social partners agree is also the basis for this presentation is for me to confirm our old-fashioned social partnership in Austria. I am all the more pleased with the SPÖ's approval. As a woman and family politician, I very much welcome the fact that care obligations for children can also be asserted in the future when it comes to whether a job needs to be accepted or not. In the past, the argument was that child care obligations were to exist, only if a posted job was located outside the place of residence. This restriction no longer applies with the new law. Especially for single and single educators, this will bring relief in the future, as they are simply disproportionately dependent on unfortunately not always existing care offers. A single parent in Vöcklabruck, for example, was blocked for a period of time in relation to unemployment benefit. She was transferred to a gastronomy company, where she had to work on the weekend and partly until 24 o'clock. She was unable to bring up care for her child and therefore rejected the job as a result of the blockage of unemployment benefit. As a result of the new amended provisions, there will no longer be such cases of hardship in the future. A second important innovation, ladies and gentlemen, is the corresponding consideration of time-limits for visibility, which has so far been almost unimportant. The present proposal provides for a time-limit in relation to working time, which allows a flexible and positive solution for all concerned. In the past, if one had no care obligations, it was practically possible to be communicated throughout Austria. The new regulation is a significant improvement for job-seekers and at last provides legal certainty. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Another important aspect is the question of occupational protection, which by means of the new law after 100 or 120 days of unemployment is converted into a remuneration protection. On the one hand, it prevents job-seekers from taking up activities that are far below the level of their previous employment in a difficult personal situation, and, on the other hand, it allows those concerned more opportunities for faster reintegration into their professional lives. I call Mr Oellinger, Mr Weinzinger and Mr Haidlmayr. We, the ÖVP, do not want to protect those seeking employment from work, as you obviously want it to be, but really help them to work. This is, however, a question of the way in which things are considered and also of the relation to reality. The same applies to the unemployment attorney's claim. The current figures show that, with the 100-day or 120-day regulation, we define a very appropriate period of practice. Thus, the average length of stay in unemployment in 2003 was 101 days in Austria. To this end, I would like to say that this figure was 136 days in Vienna during the same period. Thus, Vienna is once again driving this German section to the height as often as possible in all possible areas and showing how it is not possible. But another word about the previous comparison of Styria – Vienna. I have the numbers here, as at mid-June 2004: The increase in the number of unemployed in Styria is well below the increase in the number of unemployed in Vienna, which is only half. The number has fallen by 10.7 percent – and thus is even lower – while it has increased by 5.4 percent in Vienna. I think this comparison makes us sure and shows where Vienna stands and where the Styria.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5021	The next speaker was Mr Keussnigg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5040	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I should like to take a very brief look at the way in which the Green Group deals with this law, with a law that has been negotiated relatively intensively and has been knocked out very intensively in the preliminary process. If you look at the polemics with which you, Mrs Weinzinger, have spoken down this law, you already have the impression that you are probably really having big problems refusing this law. They are essentially saying that this federal government is not doing anything for labour market policy. This is quite clear: This Federal Government is running a very successful budgetary policy and, in parallel to its recovery course, is also setting up ongoing measures for economic promotion and job security – see the three economic programmes, see the tax reform, a tax reform which ultimately takes great attention throughout Europe, which is really pushing towards location security, towards job security. Nevertheless, you try to simply ignore this and talk it away. The figures relating to the labour market situation in Austria have been mentioned here several times. But one cannot simply pretend that we are not about half of what the surrounding foreign country has in terms of figures. The fact that we have the lowest values in all of Europe in youth unemployment is also not easy to talk about. I think you deliberately ignore and against better knowledge – that is really the unfortunate – measures because they are successful and do not fit into your strategy. We are still somewhat reconciled with you from the joint decision of the Animal Protection Act, but what you, Mrs Weinzinger, have delivered today, requires this stock successfully. Two objectives are to accompany this labour market reform law: on the one hand, to try to show high solidarity with those people who do not have work; on the other hand, to improve the efficiency of mediation. And I say that there must be no contradiction in itself! And that is no contradiction either. On the one hand, it is about the people concerned, but on the other hand it is also about the solidarity community, which does all of this. I am very glad that this is based on a social partners' agreement, and I am also very glad that at least the larger opposition party goes along, because that gives the right signal to those people who do not have a job: that politics does not polemise, but tries to find the best solution for them in a co-operation.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5085	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Tancsits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5103	Mr President. Minister! High house! A solid social partnership negotiation time lies behind us. We have made last improvements in the Committee, which have provided the opportunity for all or a large part of the opposition. It is all about an advanced law for our labour market. That is why I was very curious about today's debate, about what the Green Group is going to think of in order to be against it. And there are some claims that must not be contradicted. First: Mrs Weinzinger, you said that nine jobseekers came to a free place. - Wrong! In a registered place! Most jobs are not reported to the AMS, but are occupied beyond the AMS – which is clearly apparent from the figures. Today's labour market reform law will help to increase the use of labour market service by companies with reported jobs. The second point concerns the colleague Weinzinger: I may have misunderstanded you here if you have said that people who may not have cars have to drive by public transport. I think this is an interesting comment from the Green Group. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I really want to protect the ÖBB: For most of the passengers in this city, the workplace is much better and faster accessible by rail from the south and from the west. Thirdly, on the question of clarity, where you claim it would be intensified: That is clearly wrong! It is adapted to the reality of the labour market and placed on a remuneration protection. 120 days 80 percent pay protection means that for two thirds of the unemployed there is no change at all. 100 days old occupational protection means that half of the unemployed have no change at all. With this labour market reform law, we make improvements in the sense of a modern working world. It is based on realistic times and realistic references – for all: for the unemployed, for the job-seekers and for the entrepreneurs who need workers. Therefore, one can agree to this law for good reason.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5159	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I ask the honourable Members to take a seat. Does the rapporteur want the final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 543 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – The law is therefore also adopted by a majority at third reading. 3rd. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (475, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Labour Constitution Act, the Federal Act on the Post Employment Constitution and the Labour and Social Court Law (544 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5210	We're now on the 3rd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Schopf is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The speaking time is gladly set to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5234	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! The main issue of this government proposal is that the EU directive on this subject, which regulates the participation of workers in European societies, is very specific until 8. ==References====External links== We in Austria have already begun to make concrete considerations about the implementation of these rules very early. Unfortunately, this is not the case in some countries in Europe, and it is to be feared that this will not be done until October 2004, for example in Spain, Italy, but unfortunately also in Greece. At this point, I would like to say positively that the Government's proposal largely implements the EU Directive in a satisfactory way. However, on two points, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that this directive is not fully transposed. This was also the reason why we made a request to postpone the last Committee last week with the request to renegotiate the problematic points. Unfortunately, this request was rejected, and the government groups and the Greens agreed to this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen! Without these changes, there are serious and unacceptable deficits in the rights of workers' representatives in relation to the rights of capital representatives. We therefore demand the same rights in these companies as they enjoy capital representatives, especially in the case of personnel decisions. As a second point, we call for a replacement regime in the event that the body entitled to send Austrian representatives to the special negotiating body is not established in any of the companies involved in Austria. In concrete terms, this means that no works councils or works committees have been set up. If this is the case, we believe that the Austrian members are to be sent from the competent voluntary professional associations of workers, from the competent trade unions. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, it is still to be said that we generally regret that it has not been possible at European level to establish a uniform company constitution law. We hope that, as part of today's plenary deliberations, there will still be the corresponding changes in the sense of the workers in the draft law. Ladies and gentlemen! I really invite you to agree to our amendment which I am submitting here. Otherwise, we are forced to reject this proposal. [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5320	The amendment tabled just now by Mrs Silhavy, Comrades and Comrades is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Neugebauer has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5343	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I do not need to add anything to my previous speaker's information. We are in the plan with this template, so in time before the 8. October on the way. This is the title of the trading companies which can be established in the field of the Community in the legal form of European companies, and thus also the rights of the participation of workers in European companies, in particular those relating to the rights of information, consultation and co-determination. It is a very differentiated law dealing with the areas from the definition and establishment of the special negotiating body on the legal status of the Austrian members in the special negotiating body to the establishment of a court. The latter is made legally clear, in particular, by amending the labour and social court legislation. We therefore have rights of participation at a cross-border level in addition to the legal constitution. I think that this has found a proper balance of interests. These are measures to which the Federal Government is bound by mandatory provisions of Community law. The proportion relating to the amendment of the Post-Business Constitution Act applies exclusively to those areas which are subject to the Post-Business Constitution Act in analogy to the provisions of the Labour Constitution Act. On the one hand, Mr Schopf, in connection with the posting of members to the special negotiating body, referred to the amendment: First of all, I assume from practice that these regulations are of course only interesting for large companies, all of which usually have a works council. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that the sending of Austrian members by means of a vote of confidence takes place through the election of works councils and central works councils. This is a level of coverage, as we have applied to the European Works Councils accordingly. I invite you to give your consent to this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5383	The next speaker was Mr Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5402	Mr President. Minister! High house! In accordance with Regulation 2157 of 2001 on the Statute of the so-called European Society, it will soon be possible in the EU and thus also in Austria to establish trading companies in the legal form of a so-called Societas Europaea. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] This term includes companies that operate supranationally but are still confronted with the same rules of play in all countries. In future, companies such as voestalpine can do away with the stark step of individual foreign subsidiaries with different national conditions. The objective of this invention is an attempt at cost reduction, i.e. a much more favourable increase in competitiveness. If you believe Brussels, you can actually achieve savings of up to €30 billion, that is, a lot of money for the economy. Where this huge sum is saved, ladies and gentlemen, I probably don't even need to tell you. € 30 billion cannot be achieved alone by the removal of stamp marks. It is this money that comes together by reducing legal departments, by reducing consultants or by reducing office staff. The smooth restructuring of the European company, which is so beautifully described, does not contribute precisely to the safety and predictability of a national labour market. Of course, it is fine for profit if a trading company can switch from one country to another unbureaucratically and quickly, but I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: What does this look like for the employees of these companies? What I want to give you: In the case of all Euphoria, we must never forget the workers of our country! The EU has also understood this and has therefore added to the mandatory participation of workers in the Statute for European Enterprise. It is now up to us to put this necessity into national law. This draft is largely satisfactory, but we have started early on considering the implementation of this EU regulation, and today only more individual gaps are unsolved in detail. For this reason, we have tabled an amendment which deals specifically with the rights of workers. We should be able to fully implement this directive today. If you agree with our amendment, there is no further obstacle for my party to agree to this implementation of the EU Directive. If you did, we would have managed together to produce an acceptable product – if I were allowed to speak in the economic language.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5453	Next, Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5471	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is the first time, Madam President, that you have asked me to speak – it will be the case even more often during this legislative period. I wish you all the best in your not easy and difficult task! Walk your office objectively as we are used to! [[It is a pleasure for the liberals and for representatives of the ÖVP, SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This government template, which amends the Labour Constitution Act, the Federal Act on the Post-Business Constitution and the Labour and Social Court Law, regulates the rights of workers in European society. These are information and consultation rights concerning the economic situation of the company in order to involve them in business decision-making processes. This will ensure that workers participate in entrepreneurship measures and decisions at a cross-border level. In concrete terms, a special negotiating body with the competent bodies of the participating companies is to conclude an agreement on the participation of workers in the European company, with minimum content laid down by law. If these negotiations fail on such an agreement, consultation and co-determination rights or provisions relating to the establishment of a works council in European society shall be laid down by law. The place of jurisdiction shall be the seat of this European company. These provisions of this Directive are to be seen as an important instrument for the representation of workers at a cross-border level and as a complement to the legal constitution. Austria implements an appropriate EU directive with this law, and of course we agree with it.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5510	Next came Mr Bartenstein's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5528	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I too would like to take the first speech, under your chairmanship, to congratulate you most warmly on the election and to ask you for good cooperation over the next few months and years, Madam President Prammer. Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said that the government template before you is intended to clarify the status of European society as regards the participation of workers. There is a clear priority here: the priority is to regulate the participation of workers in an agreement negotiated between employers and employees in good social partnership manner. And in the event that such an agreement does not exist, mandatory reception arrangements apply. What do I mean by the participation of workers in this European society? – In particular, this concerns the right to information, the right to consultation and the right to co-determination. It has already been said that there has been a great deal of disputing in this debate today, but not all, as the Socialist Group's amendment also points out. That's what I'd like to say: In the event that it does not come to this agreement, in accordance with your amendment, you propose a posting right of the voluntary professional association, i.e. the union. That was a step too far. Apart from that, I would draw attention to the fact that in the preliminary discussions you have assumed a right of posting of the legal representation so that a certain change in your position can be recorded here. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As Mr Neugebauer has also said, it will not play a role in practice, because this European society is generally formed by larger structures and in these larger structures a works council will normally be set up. As I said, therefore, there is little relevance. The second part of your amendment provides for equal rights for workers' representatives in the Supervisory and Administrative Board of the European Society. Any relationship before. I would point out here that this does not apply in Austria in cases where committees are concerned about relations between society and members of the Board of Directors. That means, too, here goes Their amendment is one step too far and the procedure proposed in the Government's proposal is quite in line with the European Union Directive. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5573	Mr Nürnberger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5592	Madam President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! . I promise you, Madam President, that I will be very sensitive in order not to embarrass you, especially in order to be the first to have to give me an order, because normally... [[Intervening calls and cheerfulness at the ÖVP.]] The content of this law has already been explained today, so I do not need to go into it any more. It has not been recognized in Mr Neugebauer's statements and also in those of Mr Neugebauer that you will agree to our amendment. That is why we will not agree to this law, although I must admit that we would have liked to agree to this law because it will bring improvements on the one hand, namely improvements for the economy. The government template – I would like to say this positively – takes into account the Austrian legislation on co-determination and various legal standards, but we must, if we go through the international directives of our international trade union organisations, find that for the second time you have denied the opportunity to agree very clear and clear rights of co-determination for workers. We wanted to make clearer arrangements with the help of our amendment. In addition, there are two or three other criticisms. For example: If § 230 requires that the frequency, location and duration of the works council meetings be determined in advance, then that is completely far from any reality, because meeting venues and dates must be aligned according to events and needs. The reduction of costs for only one expert is also not acceptable, because the subject areas that need to be addressed may be very different and usually also are and therefore there should be several experts. As I said, there are certainly some positive aspects of this law. We would also have liked to give him our consent, but since workers' rights, co-determination rights, do not have the quality we imagine, we cannot accept this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5638	The next item is the speech by Mr Oellinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5658	Good day, Madam President. I welcome you in your new function! [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Good morning!]] To the law: We Greens are committed to co-determination and therefore also to the regulation of labour relations between employers and workers. It was quite interesting to listen to Mr Keck, as he did not think it was wrong, that the great potential for savings, which one hopes to achieve through the creation of this European society, the Societas Europaea, can not only be brought about by the fee for stamp marks, but also, of course, it also requires the saving of legal departments in the area of this cross-border company law, which is unified for this form of organisation of European society. I would just like to make it clear, Mr Keck: We had nothing against this unification in principle. That's okay! The fact that 15, in fact, there are 25 different rules of co-determination in the framework of Directive competence in the future does not necessarily make the matter of co-determination any easier. Whether the companies that are now setting up this European society will and will want to find themselves well with 25 different convoys of this kind, that is another matter again. In principle, quite honestly: This is a form of regulation, which – and this is not an accusation to the Austrian legislator – is already very large. If one takes our not poorly regulated Austrian employment constitution as the basis of the relationship between employers and employees, where I wish that some provisions would be somewhat easier and some accessibilitys would be somewhat easier, such as the possibility of setting up a works council – this is not a simple enterprise within the framework of the Austrian employment constitution, since one must be very careful to ensure that all the provisions and conditions are complied with – one must say: This work does not make it easier at one level or at several levels, but much more complicated. This is also noted at the extent to which the corresponding paragraphs are assigned. We will vote in favour of this law. It has also been voiced by social-democratic criticism, but nevertheless, you have also said yourself – and it is now a bit paradoxical after what we have discussed before – that it is essentially satisfactory for you. What I would like to focus on, despite the commitment to the regulation of work relations, is the following: We have a number of areas in Europe in work relations – and this is not about the very large societies – which are completely under-regulated. I spoke to my club president about the fact that there is, for example, a labour law that is unworthy of Europe in the area of transport, namely, none that allows for relations between workers and employers in Europe and within Europe, which are linked to the exploitation conditions of the 19th century. ==References== It is not only the Bulgarian transport workers that need to be taken back, but also the way in which relations in the field of transport between employers and workers, regardless of the country of the European Union, with regard to working hours, as far as labour law is concerned, can now be used – of course also as regards wages. That means – and I want to go on it –: With this Societas Europeea and the corresponding rules of relations between employers and workers, we have a highly complex, not to say, very complicated right of co-determination – that is good and could also be extended, although we agree with the present draft – and we have other areas of relations between employers and workers in Europe, where nothing does and where nobody cares. At the very beginning of this meeting, we discussed the need to articulate European problems a little bit more in this Parliament too. This is a point where we first need action in Austria, not only in the area of the few people who are employed in maritime transport, but also in the area of transport workers, and above all in one area, in which we have the most difficult working conditions or almost the worst working conditions of all across Europe. I would like to see something going on in this area in Austria, but also in Europe, which does not necessarily have to reach the scope of this co-determination regime, but which deserves the name that Europe also somehow recalls a social dimension.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5704	Mr Fassleven spoke next. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5722	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that this law constitutes progress has been expressed in the speeches of the speakers of all the political groups here in the House. Even if the Social Democrats are not going to go along because they are still understated in their rights of co-determination, I would like to say: I personally consider this law not only to be a progress, but also to be a major step forward, and I consider any further solution to be absolutely unrealistic – if only to think of what the SPÖ, for example, has acquired in the Magna case with regard to the otherwise usual operating constitution in Austria. To clarify, I would like to express very briefly what this law really contains. There's inside – I quote –: ‘Time, form and content of the hearing shall allow workers’ representatives, on the basis of the information received, to submit an opinion on the planned measures of the competent institution which may be taken into account within the framework of the decision-making process within the European Society.’ It is also stated in the law: ‘In the sense of VI, co-determination. In part, the influence of the body representing the workers or the employee representative on all matters of the European company by exercising the right to select or order part of the members of the supervisory or supervisory board of the European company, or to recommend or reject any part or all members of the supervisory or supervisory board of the European company.’ I believe that this is a clear and reality-related, excellent solution, and that is why we will also agree to this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5769	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want the final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law in 475 of the supplements. Mr Silhavy, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has tabled an amendment or amendment. First of all, I shall vote on the supplementary or amendment tabled and then on the draft law as it stands. The members of Silhavy, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment or amendment concerning §s 218 and 248. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority, and this rejects the request. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I would ask those Members who are voting in favour of it to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are also voting in favour of this draft law at third reading, to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority, and with that the draft law was adopted at third reading. 4. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (469 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act and the Farm Social Insurance Act (2. Social security amendment law 2004 – 2. SVÄG 2004) (536 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5840	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. Does the rapporteur wish to speak? - That's not the case. The debate is thus open. First of all, Mrs Silhavy is speaking. Your voluntary speaking time is 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5867	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The current government proposal must therefore be dealt with so urgently because the Constitutional Court in the 2000 pension reform repealed paragraphs 2, 3, 4 and 5 of § 264 ASVG. We have already demonstrated at the committee meeting that we have, on the one hand, very regretd that you have waited until the last print to send us this government paper, and that many of our criticisms have not been taken into account in the government template. But what is even more amazing is the following: The amendment that we have been announced to receive from Mr Tancsits, as social spokesperson of the ÖVP, has assured us in the Committee that we will receive it 24 hours before Monday, at the latest, and that we have also received it, contains much more amendments than has been announced. It contains partial reorganisations for farm-social insurance in the field of health insurance, redeployments from the accident insurance of farmers on health insurance and changes in contributions to farmers' health insurance. You have what you have announced in the media, namely at Farmers' Social Insurance Changes until 1. I would like to make a request for amendment to be made by July. I think this is very, very unfair, I must tell you, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties, because in fact something like this should go into the review and not come into this House in the form of an amendment in the context of the second reading. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I also find it completely incomprehensible when, in the fundamental debate on the financing of health insurance, you take out an insurance company to make partial repairs and leave the rest of health insurance in the rain as regards the financing aspects. So far, the Federal Minister for Smoking has been silent about how she really imagines it. We still don't know what concepts you have to put health insurance back on healthy legs financially. This is really very empathetic and makes it clear that once again you are only running client policy, that you are not concerned with health care, but that you are simply taking into account the needs and suggestions of a very strong social security system. I believe that, Mr President, you are nodding to this because it is your group that represents you. [[in the direction of the Abg. Gritish]] But can you really represent this in the sense of solidarity to all other insured persons, for example, ASVG insured persons? [[Abg. Grillish nodded.]] Do you believe that this is actually in line with parliamentaryism? [[Abg. Grill: Yes!]] Then I am very sorry, because then you have a very limited concept of democracy. I'd like to tell you this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] Our health spokesperson, Mr Lacner, will address the whole aspect of health even more closely. I would like to make a few points on the original proposal, Mr State Secretary. You have gone from one year to two years before the time of death, but it has even confirmed to you Mrs. Rauch-Kallat that this is too little. It said to the Ministry of Justice: If you take only two years, you have to take the best 12 months. You didn't take that into account either! They have benefits of unemployment insurance, in-house health insurance with net contributions and not with gross or with the contribution basis, which in turn represents a significant change in the concept of income. And you also have the accident insurance benefits inside for the first time. In fact, this is only so far for the compensation allowance and nowhere else as a concept of income. I think it's incredible for you to put this on. That is why I am already aware that on the last day you are coming with this government template, because you know very well that what you are doing is not all right with the people who have a right to more security. All in all, you can say: Neither do you live up to what the Constitutional Court asks of you, from our point of view, nor does it have anything to do with fairness and justice, because it does not exclude coincidences of life processes and processes. We therefore reject this proposal. As has been said, Mr Lacner will give a detailed opinion on the amendment.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5937	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Tancsits. His voluntary speaking time is 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5955	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer to the current government template, which essentially constitutes a reorganisation of the survivors' pension scheme following the recognition of the Constitutional Court. However, I would also like to make a few comments on the parliamentary procedure and discussions from the point of view of my predecessor. It is true that the government parties have announced that under this Social Insurance Amendment Act, other changes are also needed to maintain social health insurance and are intended to bring about progress for the patient. This is why we have tried in the last week to establish an additional Committee date, but this has not succeeded. I do not blame you, Mrs Colleague, for your efforts, but it has not succeeded, so we will not, of course, make these major changes today. I would therefore ask you, in your contributions to the debate, to confine yourself to the present government proposal. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What's this about the survivors' pension? – I believe that this is already important, especially with regard to misinformation, that changes would be made here and widow's pensions would deteriorate from the beginning to take the wind out of the sails. – The principle of calculation, the principle of care, which refers to the family income of widows or widows, is left unchanged. This principle is that with approximately the same income of two pensions, we will pay 40 percent of the survivors' pension in the future, as well as in the future. This amount will change – and will continue to change in the future – in the presence of very high incomes. As a result, the supply of survivors, if 6 900 € per month is available, can be reduced to zero – or, at low income, it can rise to 60 percent. Again: That remains unchanged. What the Constitutional Court criticised in its lifted knowledge was the calculation of these two incomes. So far, the basis of assessment of the two pensions has been compared, and in a number of cases, there has been an unpredictable and non-predictable income classification wishing rate, so that we can now improve the measurement of widows'/witwerpension on the basis of the results. voting for real-life income – which the Constitutional Court called them at the time of death. We have gone so far – and this is what the relevant opinions and opinions are saying – that we are introducing a two-year period of assessment here, in particular to protect the respective survivors or the survivors of a random income reception. Rehabilitation, therefore, is not changed the widow's pension, but the calculation of the calculation of the same. The fact that this will, in total, not only lead to a more just, more planable, more predictable calculation, but also to a slight increase for those concerned, can be seen from the fact that the current social security calculations of small additional costs against the current scheme amount to € 3 million. Ladies and gentlemen! I assume that you will agree under these circumstances to the bill because we are in line with the mandate of the Constitutional Court of Justice to reorganise and that we are making an improvement for the survivors concerned. So I think that this necessary change – timelyly in the sense of the findings of the Constitutional Court – is not in the way, and I ask for your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e6016	The next item is the speech by Mr Grünewald. He wants a speech time of 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e6034	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Madam President, I too would like to congratulate you, and I would like to speak to you today about the “supervisory duty”! [[Congratulations and congratulation with the Greens as well as congratulation with SPÖ representatives.]] [[Call the Greens.]] – Not too much praise, otherwise you can no longer talk! This law would in principle have been positive in some respects as far as the primary medical profession is concerned, but you always try – I do not say “crew and beet” – to put together different materials in a decision-making order, so that a differentiated yes or no answer, a consent or rejection, is simply not possible. I'm sorry, but you somehow prevented this by perhaps overstepping tactics and strategy. The scheme is therefore positive because it at least brings relief to patients and saves them laborious, time-consuming visits to the cash desks. Nevertheless, it is no longer a first step in a possibly right direction. I would have expected, together with a first step, that this scheme would be limited in time to create incentives to the second step and to consider how to achieve better solutions here. Criticism of this law should therefore take place because the administrative burden associated with it is not inconceivable, the control, especially the individual control of prescribed medications in patients is more than laborious and also the sanctions mechanism that would affect doctors, ultimately appears questionable in its design or feasibility. The point is as follows: It must be clear to you that the Best Clinical Practice model – how do I best write properly and according to international criteria? – always means that 80 percent of these recommendations can apply to a patient but 10.20 percent is not. That means, so to speak, “Best Human Practice” no longer exists. Any doctor, however, will be able to say: In this case, for this reason I had to act like that!, and that will not always be wrong. And we can't set up a court procedure at every prescription and convene a science committee. Especially in case of side effects, you will see that patients react differently. The fact that the concerns of the main association and its criticism of your solution are understandable is solely because the main association stands with its back to the wall and cannot afford to take a generous view of the cost development in the drug sector, and the administrative explosion – perhaps a gross expression, but: the stratification of multi-administration – will also fall on its head again, because you say that it is necessary to save here. By the way, the word “chefärztIn” is already a misleading term, for there is relatively little mention of boss and boss. These are simply academics who say yes or no according to the rules of the cash registers – when quotas are fulfilled when something is exceeded. This has to do with medicine relatively sparsely, and I would advise you or the main association that you deal with resources from academics in the main association, but also in your department more carefully and rationally and perhaps let it work out that in terms of reasonable treatment guidelines and reasonable recommendations of medications in certain indications. You could probably need good people here, too. What always surprises me and what I think is bad is that in this debate, thinking in enemy images is mainly difficult: Enemy Main association – always the evils, concreteians et cetera –, hostile image doctor's chamber, hostile image pharmaceutical industry and the cash registers in general. As far as the pharmaceutical industry – I am not its press speaker – I would venture to mention here that prices of medicines in Austria are discreetly below the EU average. And if you think that, so to speak, the ÖVP plan economy in this sector should operate through pricing, it will not be that easy, I think, because certain incentives to develop new, innovative drugs should remain. But what influences writing practice? – You should take care here to find solutions through better education, involve medical economics also in pharmacology in the study of physicians, and perhaps also ensure that finally data-based banks, computer-based medical practices facilitate what I would call subject-oriented and diagnostic possibilities. And last but not least: Voluntaryness is linked to certain gentle incentive systems or also to pressure, which is not bad. 30 percent of all drug costs are due only to four drug groups: those against high blood pressure, acid inhibitor stomach, antidepressants and lipids. If you manage to reduce the cost of these four groups by just 20 percent by generics, you have saved 6 percent of the total drug cost – something that has never been achieved so far. And I think if you extend this indication group from 4 drug groups to 15 groups, you would have 50 percent of all drug costs you would have through behavioral measures, recommendations, scientific study which you or the main association might also be able to finance. I am sorry, but on the basis of this refreshment with widows – almost I would have said automatically now: and orphans – which we do not like well, and because the demands of the Constitutional Court have only been fulfilled in full, we cannot accept this law en bloc, as you have thought, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e6112	The next item is the speech by Mr Dolinschek. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e6131	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! At the time, the Constitutional Court abolished the provisions on the method of calculating widow's pension, which came from the 1990s, on common income, i.e. on household income before the death of a partner, for breach of the principle of equality as unconstitutional. The Constitutional Court has found here that a common and just path must be found to calculate the supply situation at the time of death. The withdrawal shall take effect by 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In the future, the constitutional re-regulation of the calculation of widow's pension should be the relation of the income of the deceased and the surviving spouse in the last two years before the date of the death of the insured person. The pension calculation formula remains according to § 264 para. 2 ASVG and the parallel provisions, which have been in place since 1. In October 2000, the Commission adopted a number of amendments to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union. By drawing on the income of the last two years, the supply situation at the time of death is to be better reflected than when placing on the basis of the calculation, as has been the case so far. That's the crucial difference. The range of pension levels will therefore continue to be between 0 per cent and 60 per cent of the fictitious pension of the deceased, with a lower limit of protection – in 2004: 1 503,50 € – as well as an upper limit on higher incomes – continuing to apply to survivors with low incomes in the current year 6 900 € monthly. With the same high basis of calculation, the widow's pension will amount to 40 percent, with different basis of calculation, or this percentage will be reduced by 0.3 for each percentage point. So the upper limit of the widow's pension is 60 percent of the deceased's pension. The Constitutional Service was involved in this. The new regulation contained in this Government template constitutes a much more favourable financial variant and improves women in particular.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e6168	Mr Dr. Waneck, State Secretary, has been mentioned for the floor. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e6186	Madam President. First of all, I would like to congratulate you warmly on your appointment! - High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment on Mrs Silhavy's comments when there was also a certain criticism in the Committee when the Commission's work on the re-regulation of widow's pensions did not appear transparent enough. I should like to comment as follows: This Commission has been an expert in social partners, the main association, the Federal Chancellery, the Federal Ministry of Finance, the Federal Ministry of Health and Women and the Federal Ministry of Social Security, Generations and Consumer Protection. The date of the Commission's assessment was 30. ==References== ==References== ==References== ==References== January 2004. A protocol was created and sent to all participants through each meeting. These protocols are also available at any time. After the review, another Commission meeting took place on 13 December. ==References== The outcome of this review procedure was 22 opinions. Twelve of them voted in favour of the variant of a purely income model. The Federal Chancellor's Office's Constitutional Service also says that there are no concerns in this regard. Ten of the written statements also agreed, subject to the extension of the one-year period. These comments were also taken into account by the extension of the current bill to two years of the calculation period. In an even longer period of time, according to the Constitutional Service and the Ministry of Justice, there is a new risk of being withdrawn by the Constitutional Court. - That's the explanation. [[Abg. Silhavy: But the Ministry of Justice itself has made a completely different proposal!]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e6223	Next, Mrs Mag. All right, let's talk. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e6241	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Somehow this debate, in which we talk on the one hand about the survivors' care, on the other hand about an amendment that was not tabled, reminds me more of a presentation in the so-called absurd theatre. That is why I think it is also very interesting that the Secretary of State for Health has spoken about the regulation of survivors' care. The Constitutional Court annulled the calculation mode for the survivors' pension, the repair template must be up to 30. ==References== In 2003, over 437,000 people were affected. It was a matter for the Constitutional Court of Justice to ensure the standard of supply. Unfortunately, this is questionable, because due to this needy repair, which is now in place, it is so that the last two years apply – that has already been carried out. This results in random results, because if in the last two years a person has received sickness benefit, unemployment benefit, emergency aid or other lower benefits, then the benefits are much lower, which also affect the survivors. The Committee was still critical of the fact that the survivors themselves must collect all the documents in order to prove that they are now have a right to this survivors' care. The amendment proposed that the main association undertake this data collection. Now it's like the people who are left behind have to take care of where they get all the receipts of income, Wohnzettel et cetera. All evidence that shows what the deceased has earned, how high the standard of supply is, must now be further taught. Again, this is a sign that this regulation is not far away from a needy repair in the absurd theatre. Mr Tancsits, you have previously spoken very cryptically about the fact that an additional meeting of the Committee would not have been held. I would just like to tell you that the negotiations for the Committee have been such that by Friday, 11th. The proposals and amendments will be put forward by 3 p.m. on June. The fact that we are now discussing requests that are spirited in the clubs for a short time, but are not present now, is another example, in my opinion, of the fact that you are not actually working reliably in the government for the people and that you are doing only those in need of repairs. But the people in Austria have a right to reliability. We don't want coincidences. However, their government work is already very strongly marked by randomity. This, I think, will not make people like it: Inefficient government work is chosen!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e6287	Mrs Steibl is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e6305	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The government's proposal to be decided on the method of calculating widow's and widow's pensions, I believe, is an essential contribution to ensuring the care of the survivors. As mentioned by the Secretary of State, the Constitutional Court of Justice has a knowledge of the 27th century. In June 2003, the provisions on the method of calculation of widows and widowers' pensions for breach of the principle of equality were abolished as unconstitutional – this regulation dates back to the 1990s, and its repeal now comes with 1. ==References== To this end, we must say: A working group was set up to prepare this new scheme, involving the social partners, the main association of the Austrian social security funds, the Federal Chancellery and, of course, the Ministries for Finance, Health and Women and also for Social Security. The scheme currently in force is based on the basis of the assessment of the deceased and/or the survivors. A new approach has now been found to refer to the relationship between the income of the deceased and the surviving spouse in the last two calendar years before the date of the death of the insured person. This is likely to ensure a supply that is close to the last standard of living – this is mainly taken into account by taking into account the income of two calendar years, as the income of last year can often be influenced by sickness and unemployment. The financial impact has also been mentioned: It's €3 million a year. The pension calculation formula and the parallel provisions that have been applied since 1. In October, remain unchanged. The pension level – which my colleague Walter Tancsits, our social spokesperson, has already mentioned – remains at up to 60 percent of the fictitious pension of the deceased. There is still a lower limit of protection for the survivors, currently at €1 503, and a maximum power limit, currently €6 900. With the same high basis of calculation, widow's pension and widow's pension remain at 40 percent as before. It is only interesting – and this could be a really meaningful content discussion – why around 430 000 women currently have widow's pension, but only 39 000 of men do so. I would like to say a few things about this, which is a little hope for women in this situation. [[Abg. Oellinger: Tell me, Mrs Steibl! Just say it!]] But the thing is too serious to joke with it. Total expenditure on widowed and widowed pensions is approximately € 2.8 billion. And this new regulation will take into account, as has been said, the recognition of the Constitutional Court. I would also like to point out that, in the context of the harmonisation of pension systems, there is also a need for an independent pension scheme for women – in which our Minister of State also cooperates intensively, as it is a real concern – to redesign to a greater extent. I would also like to point out that we have taken measures in the field of family and women in the 2003 pension reform, which are already an important step in the direction of pension insurance for women. And even though Mr Oellinger is now smiling, I would still like to list these measures, since I think you have already pushed them out again – I am sure not to forget. [[Abg. Oils: I don't do anything!]] The time is no longer allowed, but you know: the increase in pensionable child rearing times to 24 months; in the calculation period, three years are taken out per child; the discharge for the farmer's pension and for example the increase in the basis of the calculation. I am convinced that all parties agree to this basis.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e6371	The next item is the speech by Mr Oellinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e6389	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr Lapp is perfectly right: That's absurd theater! It's almost impossible to outdo it! We discuss here two materials that have little in common – in other words, apart from the name Social Insurance Amendment Act. It answers the Secretary of State for Health to widow's pensions, because it is obvious that no one was willing or willing to say anything about it from the actual Ministry of Social Affairs. We have not yet learned from the representatives of the government parties any reason why the amendment announced for this plenary session is not coming. We have no reason to know why the amendment announced for this plenary session, which has taken place so quickly, because the main association has supposedly failed in its regulation, cannot be a good regulation, otherwise it would have come. So what's going on now? – Obviously it is that – and I say quite frankly, Mrs Federal Minister – as regards the obligation of the chief physician and the proposal you have presented, which is not currently in the debate – although we are confident that what your government parties have announced is indeed going to happen, some of it has been debated about him – that all of this does not happen! – This is really absurd theatre! I had very much sympathy for the draft proposed by you, and not because I had agreed with him in detail – there may be differing opinions – and because, above all, as a parliamentarian, I believe that in the case of such a delicate matter as the abolition of the chief physician's obligation, a comprehensive consultation is necessary, because I did not like it – and that is point 3 – that you first ‘send into fire’ the main association, but then, when it is necessarily burned in the fire of the doctor's chamber, say: Now we do that, they just can't!, and then, although you obviously can't do it yourself, are unable to say as representatives of the government parties: We can't either. - But that's just by the way. For the proposed variant, I would have had a certain sympathy, although the effects in detail and in the consequences would simply have been more thorough to discuss. But, of course, Mrs. Federal Minister: If you have to deal with the chief doctors as a patient or patient – and that's everybody at some point; I've only had the luck of being confronted with a chief physician once – then you ask yourself: For what is this chief medical approval made if the chief doctor, who has to wait half an hour before his room, simply has the stamp “drain skin”. – It can't have been! And everyone knows this, so the argument of the main association, which would make a lot of sense, would be applied in practice, in this case only conditional. But it is clear that when it is abolished, it may have a massive impact in the financial field – we do not know that. It is a regulation that is being introduced provisionally and with which something – which no one has been blamed – is hard to reversible – we know at least that; we will not be able to provisionally eliminate the obligation of the chief physician and then say: That didn't work, now we're going to introduce her again! You don't do that, we wouldn't like to do it either! Therefore, all of this would be a good reason for comprehensive advice on such matters, because I wish that the chief physician's duty falls because it makes no sense to maintain the chief physician's obligation in its current form. – It would have been useful to advise. But they didn't want it, neither parliamentaryly with us, nor with anyone else. And I am amazed that the chief physician's duty is obvious – let me say this again, Mrs Steibl! – Not at all the reason for the withdrawal, but a political compromise with the FPÖ at this difficult hour of FPÖ is now more important. [[Abg. Steibl: Mr Oellinger!]] [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] It was intended to increase the health insurance contributions of farmers. The FPÖ, a farmer's representative of the FPÖ, meant: It's not coming! And now it's not coming. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] If there are justified reasons for an increase among pensioners or other groups, there will nevertheless be, even if the pensioners say: That hits us hard! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Marizzi.]] With the farmers, if a FPÖ representative says something about it, the increase does not come! We learn: So far, we have felt that it is only when an ÖVP farmer representative says that it is not coming. Now we know that even a FPÖ farmer's representative at the time of the need of the FPÖ can achieve that an increase – in this case a harmonisation! – the contributions, which, although they are only carried out in one area of insurance, do not lead to harmonisation, then if the FPÖ does not fit and the hour for them is too heavy. Then you don't get the chief doctor's duty either. Then nothing comes. And then not even a government representative comes out and tells us why something is not coming. [[Abg. Marizzi: But there will be elections again!]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's really absurd theatre! Mrs Steibl, you have, and this is the second part that describes widow's pensions. There is still much to be said, but you have done only one thing again, namely the litany-like list of what you have now achieved in the field of pensions through the 2003 pension reform. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl]] They have not mentioned the problems again, but they have tried very well to focus on the fact that there are over 400 000 widowers' and widowers' pensions, and most of them women. Let us talk about the fact that it is unworthy of a modern pension system, of a modern state and of a modern social security system when women who do not have a lot of work – although not necessarily work – but the majority of work outside of employment – do not have an independent pension scheme. [[Abg. Steibl:... Mother's board!]] And that's not just the reward for child war, because there's also women's work beyond child war. And we should not take the number of children as a measure of the pension level, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Let us talk about the fact that a modern social security system could be put to a standstill for anyone who has reached a certain age to provide an independent pension or basic insurance! [[Abg. Steibl:...! Then the fathers have to go the same way in part-time!]] Let us also talk about the fact that pension division is absolutely necessary and possible, but a pension division of a social security pension makes sense only if there is a corresponding base, otherwise in some cases at the low pensions received by many in Austria, both in poverty or in the compensation allowance! Let us talk about what a modern pension and social security system in Austria would be necessary! But please do not come with it – you have just tried to do so, I would like to say to you, Mrs Steibl – that the existing proposal is a good repair of what you have actually failed to deliver, namely a reform of widow's and orphans' pensions. The Constitutional Court has removed it, and now you have to fix it. And you're -- just as the government coalition is together -- almost "necessary," you could say -- into the next repair situation, because this reform you're proposing in widow's pensions is not good, that's what almost everyone or everyone found in the review. [[Abg. Steibl: No, that's not true! You can read it as you like!]] – You already have to go far or very deep into the black core country or into the black nuclear organizations to find someone who leaves a good hair on this design! It's not a good design! And it is especially in view of the fact that we are facing the harmonisation of pension systems, which in turn will not be debated, because it has now been repaired, not a good perspective for all that would actually be necessary in the social security sector at the moment. Mr Waneck, the Secretary of State, who has certainly looked into the FPÖ papers so that he can find a supplementary argument on his written text, will be difficult in this debate, which would be necessary – let us lead it, Mrs Steibl! In this debate, where the pension system for women, but also for the whole, still has gaps. To hold this debate here would have been necessary. And that would have been an occasion. But once again it has been missed. This is not only the widow's and widow's pensions, but also, unfortunately, what you have not yet said, a public statement on why there is now nothing at all on the subject of the obligation of the chief physician or on the increase in the health insurance contributions of farmers. I would like the government to be a little more open, at least here – if it is already too late and if it is already visible what the reasons are – to talk to us about it.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e6540	The next item is Mr Walch's speech. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e6573	Madam President. I congratulate you on your choice! – Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! I would just like to say to Mr Lap and to Mr Öllinger: It is true that this request did not come. You often work on something, but you do not agree anyway. It doesn't play a waltz whether he's here or not. You've never agreed to any improvements. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals and with representatives of the ÖVP.]] And now it's like that again. In this repair, this abolition from the Constitutional Court for violation of the principle of equality, we, although the main association and the Chamber of Labour have been involved and have made a proposal for a recalculation, with which widowed pensioners might also have received less money, did not go this way. [[Abg. Silhavy: That's not true!]] That is why we have a new model... – Mrs. Colleague! [[Abg. Silhavy: The same pension model...! With transitional provisions!]] Please listen a little! [[Abg. Silhavy: I read this! Unlike you!]] We have a new model and said: Let's just let it go, we've been counting for the last two years. We set a limit of €1503 – I think it's good to get them so much that they also have a corresponding income, because that's what we owe – and set a ceiling of €6 900. [[Members of the Liberal and Reformist Party shall discuss a document with each other.]] [[Abg. Oellinger: I think the request is still coming!]] And this can cost the government €3 million! That's what you see: Repairs with improvements! By repairing FPÖ-ÖVP governance measures, there is partly more money for survivors, and therefore I would also ask colleagues to agree to this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e6662	Mrs Bundesminister Rauch-Kallat has spoken. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e6680	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! As Minister of Women, I may also express my pleasure at the fact that after following the Constitutional Court judgment, widow pensions will be given an improvement in this repair which, as Mr Walch has just said, will cost the government €3 million or burden the budget with €3 million, and will therefore, of course, be a significant improvement for the survivors in their personal income situation. Let me say briefly – in detail, Mr President-in-Office Waneck has already commented on this – about the discussion which has been held here in a virtual way about an amendment that has not been tabled. I would like to remind you once again – and this is what Mr Tancsits has very clearly said in his speech – that the government groups in the committee have asked for a new committee appointment to be able to pass a very comprehensive amendment by Friday at 3 p.m. This proposal has not been approved. That is to say, it was not... – No, in committee – I can remember very carefully – it was in principle clear that the opposition is not ready to carry out an additional committee meeting on Monday. [[Abg. Silhavy: That's not true! You couldn't guarantee that there would be him at all!]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Oh yes!]] Good. I didn't understand. Of course, it would not have been very simple and probably encountered severe criticism on your part, would it have been decided without consultation in the Committee to adopt such a comprehensive amendment at second reading. This comprehensive amendment, in which the chief physician's requirement was new, but also other areas, such as the medicinal product package, clarifications in this area, but also an important measure for the consolidation of the farmer's health insurance fund, has been passed on to you informally – and you would probably have done so here – so that you can deal with them. But let me say something very briefly about this amendment, only about the obligation of the chief physician. If you look at the request, Mr Oellinger, you will realize that the model we have discussed in the public is nothing in the amendment but merely an authorisation to the Federal Minister for Health and Women to adopt such a regulation. This Regulation is currently a member of the main association. We have also tried very hard to make the determined negotiations of the self-government between the main association and the doctor's chamber afloat. We would have almost reached an agreement between these two negotiating partners if there had not been a clear rejection of the representative of the main association for the model you described as quite reasonable. Since there was no agreement until the time I put it – it was so thought that it would have come into this amendment in time, so to speak – I said: In these circumstances, we will provide for a regulatory authority for the Ministry of Health, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, i.e. if such a regulation were to be replaced by an agreement between the main association and the board of doctors, it would be preferable. - That's the same thing. Of course, Mr Oellinger, I will be happy to discuss this regulation, if it is decided in a social security amendment law, and, of course, I would like to discuss it in this assessment phase, so that it can be adopted. It's still time. It is not a malheur if it is not included in an overall proposal today. That is why I have not insisted that this area should now be resolved immediately. You need to consider how complicated such amendments or social security amendments are novelles. [[Abg. Oils: We know that!]] That is the reason – you will be able to agree to me here. I'm asking for understanding. We will, of course, retain the obligation of the chief physician, because I think the Austrian insurers have deserved it no longer to be harassed by a measure that they feel they are apprehensive: that they must go to a place where they are not even reviewed or, if reviewed, possibly by a specialist who is not at all trained in the relevant field and therefore the assessment is also relatively difficult, and in the worst case – or in the best case, depending on how you see it – by the secretary. We want a strict indication solution, a very clear control of the chief doctors, a high responsibility of the established doctors in the practice of prescription with appropriate sanctions if this responsibility is not perceived to the extent that it is expected, and a strict monitoring of compliance with this indication solution by the health insurance doctors with the respective established doctors. I think that's a sensible model. We have also been able to find a very high level of agreement with the doctor's board, including representatives of social security schemes. I think that if this regulation is to be granted to the Federal Ministry of Health and Women, we could also adopt such a regulation in great agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e6746	Mrs Silhavy spoke in favour of an actual correction. I would like to draw attention to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure: 2 minutes of speaking time, starting with the play of the facts to be corrected, then the area.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e6768	Madam President. Mrs Bundesminister Rauch-Kallat has just said in her statement that the opposition parties would not have enabled a committee meeting on Monday. – This claim is wrong! On Monday at 4 p.m., we offered a further Committee meeting with only one item on the agenda, i.e. the 469 supplementary budget. We have also agreed to close this session on the same day so that consultation here and today could have been possible in Parliament. Our condition was that by Friday at 3 p.m. – so that Parliament's management has the opportunity to convene a committee meeting properly – the government groups would make this amendment available to us. The Members of the Government, including Mr Tancsits and Mr Dolinschek, have not been able to ensure that, and therefore another committee meeting has not been achieved.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e6804	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek is next spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e6822	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! I do not think that this debate should simply remain unanswered as to how careless it is in the social legislation of dealing with your requests from the opposition. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] For me, Mrs Steibl, this also means: careless dealing with the concerns of the citizens who have been concerned with the opposition proposals, both ours and the Greens. I would just like to remind you of the following, and this is really to be criticised, Mrs Steibl: For weeks, there is no appointment for a Committee meeting, and then you put it directly in a row – and it has failed you – not to us, you know just as well as I – with the effect – and now it comes – that more than two thirds of the agenda items cannot be discussed in plenary because they have been postponed in advance. [[Abg. Steibl: This is near the SPÖ!]] [[Abg. Steibl: You did not agree!]] That is, we cannot talk today about the fact that you may have rejected requests from us. It was really important, such as proposals for improvements for workers in the field of night and heavy work. The applications for improvements were, for example, in the area of childcare allowance, with which young women themselves are shown to be not satisfied, for example, with existing work barriers after re-entry, which is often not even guaranteed. It was about improvements for young people who have no work. It was about an apprenticeship package of the SPÖ. – All of this has been postponed. It was also about measures to resolve gaps in unemployment insurance – a very important contribution for atypically employed people, but also for free employees and their insurance in the unemployment insurance we could have made. This draft, ladies and gentlemen, has not taken account of the proposals of pensioners or of those of the main association. For example, the sub-pension model, which was recommended, has not even been considered. A sentence in particular in the explanatory notes is particularly important to me, and I would like to inform you of this: “The proposed new regulation takes into account the above-mentioned recognition of the VfGH” – and it will only be clear whether this is the case, ladies and gentlemen – “but it must be noted that a further re-design of this legal area in the context of the harmonisation of pension systems” – and the following brackets are so important to me – “(own age insurance for women”). Unfortunately, the Minister for Women has already spoken, but has no single word on the independent pension scheme of women – unfortunately, unfortunately! – lost. You know as well as I do that older workers are particularly often affected by unemployment! In addition, the abolition of early retirement pension for this group of persons is enormously aggravating, because the billing of partner income means – precisely because of the 2003 pension reform, which has brought about so many deterioration for women – that many older women who are unemployed exist without any public support! And there you have to ask the question of how and whether the standard of living is guaranteed for these women on their evenings. These women have to take huge pension losses through their pension reform! In order to compensate for these losses, one does not have to sell any retirement times as “millstones” because that will not be the case until decades since it is only for births after the 1st century. In January 2002, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes and to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to Ladies and gentlemen! The young women now may have some minimum rules – we hear from the coalition parties about this – in relation to pension harmonisation at all. And who knows if it will stay at all! [[Abg. Steibl: Then ask for resistance!]] And that goes on, colleague Steibl, but not in the sense of women! We have made proposals from the SPÖ because we really value the standard of living of women. – What is worth to you from ÖVP and FPÖ will prove this first!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e6906	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Scheucher-Pichler. Speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e6925	Madam President. I too can congratulate you very warmly and wish you all the best for your work! – Mrs Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! To my predecessor: I do not think it really brings us to discuss forever about why this or that session did not take place at that time. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: It's about women, Mrs. Colleague!]] Yes, it's about women, it's about us – and so we didn't want the agenda item repairing the survivors' regime at the last session. However, they wanted to do so and said that this item on the agenda could be dropped – and this would have slowed down, however, what we do not want! [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: What? That's not true!]] Mr Mag. Tancsits as a group spokesperson has made a real effort to find a consensus, and I stress: We also want to continue to agree! We want these improvements, we want all that is discussed in the amendments, and we are also in favour of holding these discussions. [[Abg. Silhavy: You do not know yourself in the Rules of Procedure! That's the problem!]] They wanted this item to be postponed by the SPÖ, which would have slowed down! [[New call of the abg. Silhavy.]] The fact is, Mrs Colleague: With 1. This repeal shall enter into force on July 2004. Again: We want it to come to this repair today. Yes, we are in favour of this, as Mrs B. Rauch-Kallat has said. The recognition of the Constitutional Court is just that – and we are therefore taking the right step today to decide on a new method of calculation. And that's how I mean, good and right. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The fact is, therefore, that the process of rehabilitation is to reflect the income situation at the time of death. This is correct and good, because by drawing on the income of the last two calendar years before the time of death, the supply situation at the time of death is to be better reflected. – This was clearly reflected in the knowledge of the Constitutional Court. And that's gonna be fixed right now. Ladies and gentlemen! The amount of widow's or widow's pension should in the future be the relation of the income of the deceased and the surviving spouse, but the pension calculation formula remains unchanged. The principle of care is left unchanged, while there is still a lower limit of protection for low-income survivors and a high-income benefit limit. With the same basis of calculation, the widow's or widow's pension will continue to be 40%. It is therefore a very serious renovation. That we want further improvements, including this computer-based recording, which has already been spoken of, and what has been discussed here in previous meetings, we stand by. – Again: Mr Magistrate. Tancsits has made a real effort to achieve a consensus between the political groups – and will certainly continue to do so, and that is what we stand for. Da_te They said that nothing had been done for women, I should like to point out that very much has been done for women in this legislative period. Those requests you wanted to discuss during the last committee session are, however, requests that have already been partially implemented. In this context, I only refer to the following: Parentage, child care benefits improvements, such as removal of the Zuverdienstslimit et cetera. However, they today pretend to be 24 months of retirement for child rearing! You could have done all this before, but you didn't do anything! I also refer to longer replacement times. – Very important improvements especially for women! I also trust our Federal Minister Maria Rauch-Kallat, who will ensure that women are not too short when it comes to pension harmonisation. We need well-trained women, we need women who have good career opportunities, because then they will also get a good pension. However, we also insist that work and family should be compatible, that it is important to bring both into one hat. Young women and families do not want to opt for family or profession, but want both! And this is our access to a good women's and family policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7016	The next item is the speech by Mr Lacner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7036	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I am not going to stop for a very long time with the government proposal for the reorganisation of the widow's pension, because my colleague Silhavy has talked about it in detail and has also explained why we will not agree with the SPÖ of this government proposal. Mrs Steibl, I understand: If you have such small successes, you should celebrate them: especially in view of the fact that the government coalition of ÖVP and FPÖ is not currently in excellent shape. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that you are just about to talk about it in detail. [[New calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But, Mrs Steibl – your colleague Scheucher-Pichler has already referred to the word ‘pension harmonisation’ – I am already surprised that the government parties, the past year, were already in the process of achieving this goal. June 2003, a motion for a resolution calling on the government to submit, by the end of 2003, a law that meets these demands, sits inside here and does not do anything similar to that just in this direction... – Are you the legislator or colleague of the Constitution? [[Abg. Neugebauer: But the colleague Vergestnich informs you about these conversations!]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: These are social partners' negotiations!]] I don't know, Mr Neugebauer, you obviously don't know yourself so well. You are the legislator, Mr. Neugebauer! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Neugebauer.]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The fact is, Mr Neugebauer: You of the coalition parties are juicy! You're not putting anything in the line, Mr. Colleague. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This is so – and there you can talk as long as you want: The voter will not vote for this, Mr Neugebauer, and he will also punish you at the next elections. And that's right! You, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ, will soon have to take a seat in the opposition banks! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Waneck, I am already quite surprised – and I am really not very quick to get out of the version –: On Monday, an amendment was sent to us by the SPÖ, which, as it were, considers the rehabilitation of farm health insurance to be urgent. Mr Donabauer – I do not know if he is here right now in the hall – will certainly agree with me that there is indeed a great need for action. I believe that there is an urgent need for action in the event of a debt of approximately €200 million and health insurance of €93.1 million. Mr Donabauer, I would be interested – you are one of the speakers for me – in what has changed since this Monday, so that this urgency, which was obviously still given on Monday, is suddenly no longer given today. Is there no longer any need for action in your opinion? Or maybe you have bigger problems with your coalition partner FPÖ? I would have liked to know what you intend to do in this matter. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Thankfully, Mrs Federal Minister, you have sent me a letter in which you are referring to a new regulation on the authorisation and control of proprietary medicinal products. There, too, Mrs Federal Minister, was still urgency on Monday or last week. You, Mrs. Federal Minister, have said for yourself that we now have to act very quickly to free the insured from this annoying chief physician's obligation. I already know the whole process from the previous year, namely December 2003. This point was also celebrated by the government groups at the time. To this day, ladies and gentlemen, however, there is still a chief physician's duty, the insured still have to go to the head doctor. I would have liked to know how it is going to continue now, because I do not think it can be in the interests of the insured that we are prolonging this untimely situation. I hope that we will soon be faced with an amendment or a government proposal which will meet these demands and where we will finally be able to carry out the painful topic of a chief physician's obligation to do so. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7153	The next item is Mrs Marek's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7172	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In most cases, survivors' pensions affect women whose supply situation is guaranteed by this law. I am convinced that the last two years before the death of the partner as an observation period for the determination of the standard of living are quite sufficient. The accusation of the opposition that this could lead to special hardships should the partner be long before long-term unemployment or social assistance recipients have died, I would like to point to the lower limit of €1503. This is precisely what prevents these cases of hardness. By the way, as my colleague, Ridi Steiblhat, has already pointed out, one of the proposals put forward by a working group in which, in addition to the social partners, representatives of the main association, the Ministry concerned and the Federal Chancellery Constitutional Service were also represented. Even if we only implement the knowledge of the Constitutional Court here, ladies and gentlemen, we are quite clearly committed to the need to improve the situation of women, particularly in the area of old age insurance. In the present law, the explanation – Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, thank you very much, has just pointed out – is also the clear goal for women's independent retirement insurance, which is to be achieved in the course of pension harmonisation. Mr Oellinger, with this in mind, we are also committed to the negotiations on the fact that women of old have an independent outcome and how it can work. However, Mr President, you also know quite well that the big question is the question of financing. You, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, know very well that the negotiations on pension harmonisation are currently under way at the social partners' level. And now you have to explain to me what you want. They criticise, on the one hand, that Proposals for harmonisation and, on the other hand, that we also talk to the social partners too little. We are now negotiating with the social partners, and you are not right. We have already taken into account some of the parts required by you for the harmonisation of the pension. This has already been said several times. Just as this Federal Government has taken into account the benefits of women in the family for retirement, no government has succeeded in doing so before. But this was obviously also a matter of priorities. The first major, important steps are being taken for women. In this sense, we will continue to put in place the necessary measures to ensure independent retirement for women.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7223	Mr Donabauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7241	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! If Social Democracy has also asked the Social Minister for 30 years and has worked well in many areas – not a question – it must be said that there is still a lot of work left and that it has given us some hot potatoes we have to work on. Sometimes I wonder what your access to social policy is like today. If I listen to the discussion here and think of the debate in the Committee, I have to say, I have a slight concern. First of all: Those who cannot or do not wish to agree to this government proposal on the regulation of survivors' pensions are, in fact, exploring the objective of this legislation. I think that this will improve not only for women, but in principle for the survivors, so something positive that we extend the calculation period to two years and thus secure the standard of living. What's the question? If the Committee has been discussing the administrative parts of this legislation for an hour, I can tell you that it is those components of income which have to be raised even today when the survivors' pension is used and are part of the authorisation procedure. So they say: Nor can we find a good proposal because we simply do not want to agree to the laws of this government. – This is not a social policy! You really have to warn about that. You have to say that publicly, too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We discussed the report on labour inspection in the Committee. There has been a call for, among other things, an extension of the list of occupational diseases – something which honourable Members Oillinger, since I have known him, have repeatedly called for with due persistence. It has now also called for social democracy. You could've done it already! You'd have had 30 years. But, please, it didn't come. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] What annoys me is that Vice-President Dremer, who was not present at the meeting and therefore does not know what the content of the discussion was, suddenly finds out in a broadcast that this government consisting of ÖVP and FPÖ the sick people are not worth nothing and they are not interested in health policy and much more. – Give my greetings to Mr Dreemer! He's supposed to be in the same position. Really take back statements. They really don't do anything. The report of the labour inspection is so impeccable, is so clear that one can really make a compliment to the ministry and that we can say that the social policy in Austria is in order. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] In the past it was so that when you submitted reports, you always demanded that they be praised. We can also praise them, that is our good right. And one last thing: If today's amendment has been requested several times, I understand. I do not understand that a general debate has already been opened. But they will have the opportunity to deal with it in the next few days. We can assure you. If Mrs Silhavy believes that this is a singular process of a professional group, I can also tell you that this is not a singular process of a professional group, but it is a well thought out concept for the entire social security and its financial security in the future. All this has only become necessary because you have not been able to solve the problem in the past and because the Constitutional Court has removed a good work of the compensation fund due to complaints concerning certain shortcomings, which we have to respect. On the basis of this fact, we have to reorientate. We will put forward a proposal in the next few days, and I hope that we will then be able to reach your agreement.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7315	No one is reporting on this. I'll close the debate. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? This is not the case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 469 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted by a majority vote in third reading. 5. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (456 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act establishing a federal law on the additional supervision of credit institutions, insurance undertakings and investment firms of a financial conglomerate (FKG) as well as the Insurance Supervisory Act, the Banking Act, the Securities Supervisory Act, the Financial Market Supervisory Authority Act, the Stock Exchange Act and the Pension Box Act (520 d.b.) 6. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (470 D.B._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends the Fees Act 1957, the Assessment Act 1955, the Soil Estimate Act 1970 and the Tax Administration Organisation Act (521 d.b.) 7. Point Report and request of the Financial Committee on the draft federal law amending the 1975 Fees Act (522, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7382	We now come to points 5 to 7 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. I'm going to open the debate. Mr Matznetter was the first to speak. His speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7406	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! First of all, Madam President, dear Barbara, it is pleasant to have your presidency here! I would also like to congratulate you once again on the election and look forward to your presidency! If we are already with the additions, I would like to say that Mr Donabauer has ended up with a certain fine speech of problems that are serious. As a supplement, I would like to allow myself to say very briefly: A compensation fund as a solution to problems of the permanent financing of health insurance companies is not a solution. In this sense, we need serious concepts in this area, and there is no need to beautify the problems that exist in this area. They should contribute more to the solution. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grill: Do you know the concept?]] But we are now at Agenda items 5 to 7. I begin with the first part, namely the regulation of financial market supervision for the financial conglomerates, that is, especially for those areas where there is a mixture of different forms of financial institutions. It is an area, ladies and gentlemen, whose regulatory needs are urgent. Unfortunately, in continental Europe, the situation is that, I must say, there are no very strict and clear rules on separation: This is an investment bank, this is an insurer, this is a financing bank and that is a deposit bank. A clear separation in this area, as is partly the case in the United States, would increase consumer safety. He could rest assured that his own interests, for example his bank and his own nostro portfolio, cannot play a role in the advice he gets for his own responsibility. In this respect, however, it is also to be welcomed that we are now strengthening the supervision of the financial markets in the area of financial conglomerates in order to ensure that they do not be able to do things in an area such as acts, which fall within the scope of insurance supervision. These may not be included in the audit field and also in the field of banking audit, so that, in the context of an overall audit, there may be a situation where parts remain untreated within the scope of the previous supervision. On this point, I would like to announce that, as in the Committee on Finance, this part of the House, we will vote in favour of this item on the agenda, but I do not wish to allow the opportunity to continue the discussion on financial market supervision which we have started in the Committee, also to clarify the position of my group and, as I believe, the other groups. Point one: The joint idea in the creation of financial market supervision was high efficiency, i.e. an efficient form of control associated with the lowest possible cost, human resources and actual use, which helps prevent incidents, as I can call them, Rieger Bank, Trigon Bank and BHI in the future in the future. Secondly, it should be a modern form which does not operate so much according to the, if you want, law-abiding circumstances of the public service, i.e. rather a modern form of a service company. At the same time, however, we also expected the functions already given to remain unchanged. I do not wish to hide from this point of view that we are not happy about answering questions from the Minister of Finance if the Federal Minister points out that he has only a supervisory function, and that minimum level of reporting to Parliament cannot fully fulfil its management of the FMA. We are in discussion – we do not need to hide that – in order to find solutions to it. Any improvement is right for us. I do not consider a direct request to be bad at a time when more and more is being distributed. Why should those responsible who act independently not also be personally speaking and responding to this House? However, there could also be an obligation for the Minister to use the files to a greater extent if Parliament wants to know something. I prefer the first opportunity. If one is to create modern institutions, then there must also be the possibility of justifying and answering questions of the law-making bodies. I now come to the second point, which concerns a number of amendments to the Fees Act 1957, the Evaluation Act 1955, the Soil Assessment Act 1970 and the Tax Administration Act. Ladies and gentlemen! I asked the question – the Secretary of State reminds us of our discussion – in the Financial Committee and I ask her here again: I do not understand, for example, if one uses the field of soil assessment, why, when one needs local knowledge and local responsibility, one takes away competence from the competent finance board, which is also not located in the new regional management – no, one places it in the Himmelpfortgasse in the Federal Ministry of Finance. A financial organisation is one of those things that always need to be changed. But we see a structural streamlining, which is increasingly the opposite of what one sees as modern management, namely small, powerful units with high own responsibility, and these were the financial offices with their boards. Any individual measure leading to a central authority cannot be the right course. One can think about many things, for example about the intermediate level of the financial country directors, positive or negative, but so is the construction of our state, which has a regional zone, a federal structure and a federal structure. This is something you can't simply wipe away from the table in the area of financial management. Any weakening at regional level and at the level of the country means that in the end, citizens, but also businesses that need great discussion in the case of finance, are always dependent on driving to Vienna in many things. As a Vienna tax advisor, I could say: Well, then you also get clients from the province!, but that can't be the goal of acting and driving. What you can solve locally is supposed to happen there. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The last point to this chapter – and now I come to a point that has not been clarified – is: We have supposed to have mandatory increases in fees in here, where the Secretary of State could not tell us how many fees by their withdrawal compensate for the increases. Quite honestly – as a parliamentarian, I do not feel sufficiently informed to know that this is not simply a further increase in fees. In part, the fees are tripled. In part, the fees are moving at an altitude, my Ladies and gentlemen, as in the issuing of visas, where you have to ask whether people can and should still afford it and whether they are still useful in a tourism country. Let me add one more point at this point. In general, the following applies: Fees are a form of financing that is not always the most appropriate, especially when it reaches a tax character. The same fractions that rightly say a rental contract fee, a credit fee is a tax... [[Abg. Neudeck: Channel fee!]] If the fee goes beyond the cost, it is a form of taxation. All these things are not a suitable basis for an additional tax. Yes, the channel network still costs more than the fee, but if there are communities that cost more than the... [[Further call of the Abg. Neudeck.]] That those who build so cheap canals in Vienna would be really great, but thank you for the praise for the city administration. [[Abg. Neudeck: They're supposed to lower it! That wasn't a praise!]] But now come back to the core problem: We want to agree to the exemption for Leumund's certificates. We have therefore requested a separate vote on Article 1, point 1a and point 5a. We cannot give our consent to the rest because of the lack of information and the basic objective. Agenda item 7: This is the amendment of the 1975 Fees Act. That's where we'll give the consent. Finally, let me make a brief mention of a point concerning the legislative materials and the nature of the proceedings. We would all benefit from it – I say so consciously so – if certain things were to go into consideration beforehand, we would explain certain things informally in advance, so that everyone knows what is happening. Then we wouldn't have to do some things here in the way that we make it a political one every time. Many points are factual, and there should be the pride of the house that we can make it better. This strengthens cooperation and promotes the use of the professional competence we have in a great civil service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7495	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. It's stupid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7514	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, Madam President, I too would like to be included in the number of congratulators, for otherwise it could be the In the case of a reversing operation, it is necessary to draw up a reversing plan. Of course, I would also like you to exercise this office and this function with great success and joy in the coming years. Ladies and gentlemen! In particular, I would like to say something about the Financial Conglomerate Act, because it is a very nice example of a problem which we have in general in politics. We live in a time that has an essential mark: the pace of change. It is not easy for policy to keep pace with this pace of change at all. The law we now have is a good example of this. Only a few years ago, two and a half years ago, after years of preparatory work, did we decide on the new supervision of the financial market – very professionally prepared, independent, an all-financial supervision – and opinion: That's what we've got now! The development of financial markets is very dynamic and has led us to need a new law again because financial conglomerates – banks, insurance companies, investment firms act as conglomerate – are not covered by this still so modern and efficient financial market supervisory law. It is also a good example of why we have this flood of law, because, according to the current state, three, four, a maximum of five financial conglomerates will fall under the new law – but we still need our own law. We need it because the current supervision of the financial market cannot cover it under the legislative text. That is, we have the situation here that we have to say that we need this law despite all the accusations of the flood of law. We need it for the attractiveness of Austria's economic location. We need it for the stability of the financial area. We also need it for the trust of savers, investors and policyholders. – This law is thus a good example of this pace of change. We are in favour, and I am also grateful for the fact that we were able to reach a four-party consensus in the Financial Committee. I would also like to say – and I am really saying this quite consciously – that we are really trying to maintain a very constructive discussion environment across all political groups. I would therefore like to comment very briefly on the two other points raised by Dr. Matznetter. But first of all, what you, Mr Matznetter, said on the question of information law, information law. Of course, you have a right, the supervision of the financial market is operationally independent – but nevertheless, the Minister of Finance will never be able to show a certain political responsibility here in this House completely. Honestly stated: I am also in favour of transparency and information, but I would say to the Minister of Finance, who is responsible to Parliament. I do not like the variant – because it would have an incredible prejudicial effect for many other distributed organizations – that there is a direct obligation to provide information and information. But we are willing to talk about this very constructively. You mentioned another point to the next law. With regard to the restructuring of financial management, I would like to say the following: I have to say – and this is my experience from my constituency, where we have five financial offices – that I have a very, very positive feedback from both the financial management staff and the taxpayers concerned, whether it be workers or businesses, a very, very positive feedback. Got it. Workers say that these services are a great thing in the financial office. The companies say that they have always been for these principles of new-public management. I would really like to thank you, Mr State Secretary, for being the leader in these issues, and to say that we are glad that we have this restructuring. It is right what Mr Matznetter said that there are still questions there or there that we might have to clarify. The fundamental trend, however, was: Away from centralization to a regionalization! And I believe that this concept will ultimately also be the guideline of our further future considerations. We have another item on the agenda, in which we will also make a consensual amendment at second reading, because we said in the Committee that we will clarify this until the second reading. I really appreciate that we have a four-party consensus at the next point. I prefer this one more than we decide two or three more points, but it is just a majority decision. In this sense, I would like to ask for further constructive cooperation in the Financial Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7583	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kogler. His voluntary time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7601	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President Stummvoll has just described the consensual climate in the Committee. This climate leads to very much already being said in agreement, so that I can keep my statements even shorter than the scheduled 7 minutes. I would, however, like to turn to the Secretary of State in advance, but I would like to highlight the criticisms. It is a bit strange if the proposals from the Ministry of Finance are more and more likely to fail to comply with the Federal Budget Act. Although it may not be the great tragedy, the Court of Auditors, in its writing in the assessment procedure, notes that it was simply claimed that the financial consequences of this law are, so to speak, zero, undetectable when it comes to whether financial market supervision has a cost-effective additional burden or not. The point is not at all that the supervision of the financial market should not have any additional burden, if it is a sensible law – what it is natural, as we Greens believe – but one simply disappears around in the appropriate explanations, writes it this way – be it, the Members should take it that way. In reality, there are only two interpretations: Either the financial market supervision has not yet experienced the total utilization of its resources – then there is no additional cost, because simply existing capacities are used – or there are additional costs. He stressed the importance of the Court of Auditors' notification, and now he says that this is a little too salopp time and again. There are also cases where templates of the Ministry of Finance, which reach the house, concern much more serious things, where it is very interesting, namely, in the multidigital millions, whether or not the Federal Budget Act, in particular § 14, is in line with or not. I am only saying this because it is now regularly reaching us. There is no meeting of the Financial Committee, in which we do not find that the review points out – often by the Court of Auditors, sometimes by other institutions – that this is not in conformity. If you may think that the Federal Budget Act here is too strict or produces inefficiencies in the law enforcement, then you will have to look at the Federal Budget Act, but the exercise, which is simply so silent and secretly tolerating again and again, I do not want to join. It continues in this tone: For example, the Oesterreichische Nationalbank writes that in the example calculations of §§7 and 8 it was once again taken completely by the side, even in these simple calculation examples, and sends a correction. - Fits the picture. Now I've tasted enough. However, it was my concern to say that in all the Committee's consensus, but it also concerns the Ministry of Finance and not the Committee's work. In the matter itself: Mr President, it is quite clear that things are developing very rapidly in this area. For me, however, it is also an example of interaction – cross-border and international – between market events and the role of the state if you want to. You, too, have no problem admitting that there is clearly a need for the state here and that there is a need to find that wherever the financial market surveillance needs it, market failures could arise, so to speak, and could not be averted at all: not because anyone is evil, but only because of the fact that market participants in the area meet with asymmetric possibilities. This is quite enough that this would then be a reason, as we believe, for meaningful state intervention. [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] Once again we learn: A functioning market needs, at least in this sense, a strong state. This too is gratifying if this knowledge takes over-group space. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Now I would just like to justify voting on item 6, with special reference to the fact that we in the Committee have not received at all a satisfactory answer to the question in which areas there is much increase in fees. But that may not be the most tragic. In one area, the increase in the fee will be securitised and safe, in the case of visa fees. We can also discuss whether, on the basis of different criteria, they could not be a little higher if they otherwise comply with the principles of the rational introduction of fees. But I think the cover is very treacherous in the area. In fact, it is not mentioned that the fee for visas is intended as a steering instrument – that is not what it is called there. And that is what we find with all our love for cost-truth, sparingness and what else is a little exaggerating. I believe that the issue of visa fees should at least meet other criteria. That is why there is certainly our rejection on this point.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7683	The next speaker is Mr Bucher. Requested time: 5 minutes. – Mr Commissioner, you are on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7701	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As far as these three legislative instruments are concerned, I would like to talk about two of them, one of which is the amendments to the Fees Act, which Mr Matznetter mentioned, and the approximation of visa fees to the European directives. I believe that the additional costs resulting from this are relatively coherent, as a new technology has also been developed in the area of passport exhibition, which includes biometric data, fingerprint possibilities, forgery and the like. I believe that this is a solid reason and that these additional costs are also justified. To the Financial Conglomerate Act: I believe that we can observe this development at international level very closely, as credit institutions, other stock exchange companies and insurance companies combine to form a joint venture, act as global actors and offer financial services. It is important and right that a law here ensures that supervision in the area of these financial services is ensured in the future and that financial market surveillance is carried out in Austria. It is also called upon to cooperate beyond borders in order to act internationally in the interests of both the financial conglomerates and consumers. This also concerns compliance with benchmarks, namely in the area of equity deposit and reserves, which provides certain security for investors. There have already been some cases in the past which have led to the disadvantage of consumers. The aim is to exclude risk concentrations, above all to better coordinate group dynamics in the area of financial market supervision and to ensure this monitoring. Ladies and gentlemen! This law creates competence for financial market supervision as an authority, creates a standardisation of the information obligations of financial conglomerates and precisely defines the equity deposit and reserves so that abuses can be excluded in the future. Overall, risk management, which is required here, is a very important basis for halting possible abuses in the financial services sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7742	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Hoscher. Desirable time: 4 minutes. – Mr Commissioner, you are on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7760	Mr President. Mr State Secretary and Minister of State! Colleagues boldly come back briefly – not as criticism, in no way, but as a supplement –: Of course, we also need this Financial Conglomerate Act because it is an EU directive that we need to implement. I believe that this is also a good example of dynamic development in this area. It is noteworthy that the financial markets sector has set itself a much faster and more comprehensive focus on the liberalisation and harmonisation needs that the EU requires than on other economic sectors, but this is not always positive in the financial services sector, because there are However, due to the size of the markets and the amounts that are being moved, there may also be significant problems for the real economy if, for example, stability crises occur. It is only from this point of view that our own supervision in this area is necessary and very welcome. I think it is also welcome to settle these in the field of financial market supervision and not to create a new authority for this because otherwise the administrative system would certainly be larger and, of course, the costs that the financial services providers ultimately bear would be much higher and probably transferred to consumers would be much higher. Mr Stummvoll has also mentioned that around three to a maximum of five conglomerates will be affected in Austria. This is quite a remarkable number of Austrian markets, resulting from the historical development of these markets, but compared to other EU countries, as has been said, it is a very important number. Especially in the run-up to the novelle and in the run-up to the implementation of the directive, criticism has come as to the definition of conglomerates as regards the size of the proposed finding when a conglomerate is available, which is to be supervised in addition. I believe that the current regulation is quite practical and can also be carried by financial service providers in this context. It is already clear that there are additional costs for companies, for example in the field of accounting. On the other hand, I believe that there are additional opportunities for competition, because greater supervision and more transparent balance sheets are a competitive advantage that can be used. First rating agencies have already announced that, on the basis of these more transparent balance sheets, they may be able to make better classifications if they have more information and there is a supervisory system in this regard. I am not entirely of the opinion, which has also been criticised by some parties in the assessment process, that the additional capital requirements and allowances that are necessary, and therefore, under certain circumstances, associated reductions in return on equity, would be “serious” in implementing the Directive. I believe that this is rather short-sighted because, as mentioned above, additional supervision can increase competitiveness and, in particular, increase consumer confidence, if one also uses marketing technology. I believe that consumer confidence is very important in the area of financial services. Moreover, the directive has introduced a number of additional voting rights that leave the directive open – I am thinking of the method of calculating capital resources and so on – so that there is a certain degree of flexibility here. In my view, however, it is all the more necessary to pay a high attention to further EU-wide implementation and, in particular, cross-border cooperation in this area, because there is a danger that, through various design possibilities and the use of these options, there will be certain circumstances that – I say under quotations – leave “creative possibilities” in relation to supervision. I am not entirely convinced that the path that appears to be going towards EU-wide financial market surveillance must be the final conclusion of wisdom. All the more so, the national supervisory authorities will need to: work together on a cross-border basis and actually implement the text and spirit of this directive. In this sense, we will certainly agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7823	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Desirable time: 4 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7842	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! As all previous speakers have said, this is the implementation of an EU directive. Last time I mentioned this: There you can see how important the operations in Brussels are. I also think that we should remember briefly what our representatives, particularly in the expert discussions, are speaking of the official representatives of Austria, in the proceedings in Brussels for opinions. If you talk about it with several ladies and gentlemen in the Commission or, for example, in the Internal Market Directorate-General, you hear very interesting things. It is noted that, as far as supervision is concerned, the members of Austria often show little understanding of the practical implementation of different directives. Here comes the classic indication that colleagues from England, France, Germany and the like are doing more with regard to the implementation of the financial markets. And then comes the note: It can never be sharp enough for Austrian colleagues. This may be a compliment, but at the same time we should be careful not to over-fulfil the EU directives. There we are in some areas – I am not talking about this procedure at all now, but in general – often specialists. Here is also a small indication of the situation between the National Bank and the Financial Market Supervision: There's sometimes the impression that this hasn't really happened. These jealousys should not be included in any bill. I do not think that one should be against the efficiency of the test; on the contrary, there can never be enough efficiency. But it cannot be that quality is replaced by quantity. I would therefore like to address this because there are some things in the pipeline, and there will certainly be a discussion about the fact that we do not need any disadvantage in the sense of home-made additional controls. I should like to point out that, in the light of the reporting, which is also included in these conglomerate directives, we are making an annual report on how it meant the EU here once a quarter of a year. So it's a little overstated. At the risk of inventing more reporting requirements, in order to have a little more staff and bureaucracy in turn, I think we should take care of this and take it a little counter. An up-to-date note, because both financial market supervision and the central bank are required: The fact that reports about foreign subsidiaries are to be placed – and this request has happened without voting with the foreign supervisory authorities – means that our institutes operating abroad have to comply with up to 14 different reporting rules. This only costs money and time and actually does not help anyone unless the number of employees who have already increased by 41 men in financial market supervision last year is increased further. I would ask that we go back to efficiency. But this is rather per futuro spoken and applies not so much for what we unanimously believe we need it urgently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7884	The next speaker is Mrs Hagenhofer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. – You are speaking, Mrs Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7902	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The visa fee will be re-regulated. The Secretary of State has explained to us in the Committee that it is an EU harmonisation. Allow me, Mr State Secretary, to comment on this: If we continue to say to those countries that are not yet in the European Union: European standards are a prerequisite! and: You must become European, then this will probably be more difficult for people than it is by increasing visa fees, as it is now present. There is another aspect to this, especially from today's point of view, because we were visiting the Bureau of the Bosnian-Herzegovinan People's House in the house. With us in Austria live a lot of Bosnians, they are Austrian citizens, but the parents are in Bosnia-Herzegovina. The visit of these Bosniers to us in Austria is enormously expensive. You should also, please, bring these aspects into the European Union if we continue to demand that the citizens of non-EU countries meet European standards. They must also be able to orient themselves in Europe. - That's what I wanted to say. What we still notice in this visa fee scheme: If the fees are changed and re-regulated, Mr State Secretary, we do not understand that – and the Ministry of the Interior has clearly stated in the opinion – it is obviously not regulated that the issue of residence permits by an authority established in the country and the follow-up of this residence permit is carried out by a foreign representative authority. On the one hand, the Fees Act cannot be applied and the Consular Fees Act cannot. [[Abg. May. Posch: That's important!]] This means that this residence permit, issued by an authority in the country and issued by the representative authority abroad, is free of charge. Mr State Secretary, if we take care of something in Austria, please be so arranged that there are the same conditions for all. That is why we cannot agree. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7940	The next speaker is Mrs Rossmann. 4 minutes speaking time is required. – Mrs Colleague, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7958	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! In advance, I would like to ask the SPÖ: You can find yourself in relation to: Your time of government reminds you whether there has ever been any reduction in fees in this one? At least we can't remember that. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: We will be happy to remind you of your time in government!]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim:... on the occasion of your chaos!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] I would remind you, however, that there has been a very large reduction in fees under this government, namely to a very large extent. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Do you know where it was? At the euro changeover! The government has had the courage to complete all the fees during the euro changeover. That was a million-height reduction! What we now have here is once again an EU adjustment. On the other hand, I agree with Mr Matznetter that we have to consider how tourism-friendly visa increases are. But I also say – we know this from remote markets, and I take the example of China – that there are now more visa applications and that the consulate and the message have more to do than ever before. This is simply an administrative burden that can no longer be overcome, and this increase in fees is justified. Another point is the increase in the fees for identity cards. There too, I think, the people understand this small increase, because in return there is a rapid, bureaucratic settlement and a identity card card is handed out. I think if the performance is right, the population is also willing to pay more for it. That is justified in this sense. Finally, I am particularly pleased that it has also succeeded in enabling the exemption from the criminal record certificate to be made available to volunteers. I think that's a real step: If someone is willing to take over this difficult honorary office and has to submit a criminal record certificate in order to be able to take up the honorary office, then it should be free of charge. We have also done this, and not the SPÖ, which can be celebrated everywhere, where it is a new car or the opening of a new health base, which may have been announced in Sunday's speeches, but never acted. We have now acted, and it is a very, very nice move that this exemption is possible for the criminal record certificates of medicaments. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8023	Mr Finz has now made a statement on behalf of the Secretary of State. – Mr State Secretary, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8042	Mr President. High house! Member of the Matznetter has referred to amendments to the Assessment Act and the Soil Assessment Act. The amendment of the Soil Estimate Act and the Assessment Act is a normal response to the restructuring of financial management. So far, there have been advisory committees at FLD level. Formal was the chairman of these Advisory Boards of the respective President of the Financial Country Directorate. A re-allocation of these officials was necessary as a result of the disbandment of financial management. They have been assigned to the so-called department. Department means: In the past, there was an expert in each FLD for each specific area of justice. These experts are now formally assigned to a central department in the Ministry of Finance, but are located regionally in the former FLD departments, so they belong to regional management. Formal, therefore, criticism of centralization is correct, but practically not at all, because the officials are still available in the regions. Secondly, on visa fees: An adaptation to EU law was required here. There have so far been different visa fees, which were either lower than €35 or higher. For transit visas, for example, a fee of €10 has so far been paid, depending on the duration of your stay, between €25 and €50. Now there is a uniform amount of €35, and I think that is also a good regulation in the sense of administrative simplification. Mrs Hagenhofer! You've cut a case I don't know. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That was thought so!]] If a visa has been issued in the country by an authority and it has been issued abroad by the representative authority, the fee must, of course, be cancelled there. All cases are treated the same way, and it is not the case that in these cases no fee is raised. That would be inconvenient. Mr Kogler, you have referred to the § 14 Court of Auditors Act in connection with the new tasks of financial market supervision. The Ministry of Finance's finding that the Federal Government does not raise any costs here is correct, and we do not share the Court's view because the financial market supervision costs are shared between the audited and the Ministry of Finance, with the contribution of the Ministry of Finance covered. If new tasks grow up as in this case, nothing will change the contribution of the Ministry of Finance. The costs for the audited are increasing. However, the costs for the audited are currently far below the originally assumed level. The Federal Government carries more of the financial market supervision costs than was planned. Mr Maier criticised the fact that more and more regulations are being added, thus increasing the costs of financial market supervision or the costs for the audited. I think it's in all our interest that we have a safe money and credit market. This is an asset in the economic location ranking, and that is why we have to make an effort. If we have an EU standard, then of course we also check internally whether, in our view, supplementary arrangements are necessary for a secure credit and financial market. That's how we did it here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8081	The next speaker is Mr Marizzi. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8100	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! We Socialists have come out of our responsibilities in redesigning the financial market supervision and because it is also useful to agree. I am not saying ‘Moloch’ now, but somehow Mr Maier of the ÖVP is right. It has become an extensive device, it is now around 200 employees. We have agreed to the solutions to the main problems and also to the new tasks. Mr State Secretary! My criticism is that, as Mr Maier has already said, we should not over-interpret ourselves and not over-organize ourselves. For 200 people, we already expect a proper organization, which is transparent and competent in matters. And if I recall the written questions, Mr Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, which we have addressed to you, the answers to the financial market surveillance have actually not come back pre-potentially, but a bit of a sluggish, so in the form of “taste”. If we already agree, if we are actually quite nice and constructive, then we get a “taste” back, according to the motto: Do it somehow! In reality, we only need you to vote – and in any case you can clean up now! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[State Secretary Dr. Finz: What answer was that? Which one?]] – I only have three minutes! Everything has actually been said about these financial conglomerates. Mrs Rossmann, who had previously asked if we could not remember what we were doing in the government, I would like to keep to the latest edition of the FORMAT of last Friday: ‘Grassers Budget Log’. Mr State Secretary, you should read this through. I don't have time to interpret that anymore. Take this, put it on the night cabinet, and read it through! It can't be that the minus is still a billion more now. If one reads through today’s “curer” that the BUWOG sales have to tax the rents and put a billion into them again, i.e. on one side the Ministry of Finance has a billion – not skinned – otherwise managed and on the other hand the small tenants have to pay it, then I am sure, Mr State Secretary, you will get back to the next elections as on the last Sunday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8166	Next, Mrs Tamandel. She too wishes to speak for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8184	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment of the Fees Act is absolutely necessary because the legal situation with regard to visa fees no longer complies with EU law, because, in the issue of residence permits, fees under the Fees Act 1957 apply for different writings and, in addition, federal administrative charges for the issue of residence permits are to be paid, but above all because the issue of identity cards in the ticket format for the issuing authority is currently not cost-effective. For the countries, it is quite welcome that the local authorities will now receive 35 € per identity card issued, thus ensuring an increase in the level of cost coverage for countries and municipalities. In the case of residence permits, the merger of stamp fees and the Federal Administrative Tax on a tax is a substantial simplification. The financial consequences of these amendments are different. Since visas are usually issued by Austrian representatives abroad, they are subject to consular fees. Visas issued domestically are exceptions, and the adjustment of the fee to the EU rules is therefore not particularly significant. [[State Secretary Dr. Finz has been talking to an employee for some time.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] In the case of residence permits, the change will be largely non-profit-making, but it is an essential administrative simplification. The main impact is the achievement of a higher cost coverage for the issuing authority in the case of identity cards. There are only these check card-format ID cards, and this means, for example, less revenue for the Bund of €215 000 per year for the exhibition of 50,000 identity cards. An encouraging detail on the edge – Mrs Rossmann has already mentioned it –: It is now the case that, through an amendment by the government parties, volunteers must not pay a fee for the application for a criminal registry extract and also its exhibition. They save themselves with it. twice 13 € and are thus exempt from the fee. It is right and necessary that someone who volunteers for such an activity – and our rescue organizations are dependent on it – is not also financially burdened. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8241	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Moser. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8260	High house! Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Even Austrian economist and short-term finance minister Joseph Schumpeter found in 1912 that there was a direct link between a well-developed financial system and a thriving economy. Schumpeter's thesis was that innovations are the driving force for successful economies. In the meantime, such innovations have also taken place in financial markets: in financial institutions and in financial products, whether on the investment side or on the financing side. Both benevolent and malicious financial acrobats are now finding a rich field of activity. Cross-border social linkages, institutional links, productive links, mutual risk take-overs increase opacity. In this environment, the weak, the uninformed remain on the track. – That is not our goal, that is not the goal of social democracy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! People should be able to make their savings safe. In Austria, €1 300 billion is available, so we need to create security for the people. Much has already been said, but one thing is particularly important: Markets need transparency, competition, clear rules, minimum standards and supervision to function. The current Financial Conglomerate Act may be a first step in this direction, creating more transparency and more security for the investment. That is why we support and will agree to this law by social democrats. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8305	The next speaker is Mr Neudeck. 4 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member. But you can also cut down on speaking time, like all previous speakers, which is completely freed from you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8339	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The present Financial Conglomerate Act adapts the financial market supervision introduced a few years ago to the modern needs of globalisation, takes account of the mergers of banks, insurances et cetera as major financial services providers and thus improves consumer protection for investors, insured and cetera. The current law is based on a four-party agreement and therefore is no longer necessary – but also because of the many previous speakers – to address it. It is interesting, however, that social democracy does not agree with almost 30 percent reduction and packing in visas, but this is already the case in the meantime, namely: Increase taxes, but do not reduce them! I would like to refer briefly to Mr Marizzi's comments, which I would like him to read a little less paper and go a little more into committees, and say to him: The BUWOG sale will not increase rents for so long, as long as the liberals in the government are, because we guarantee that the housing law will not be opened so to speak. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Eder nods, that is, he agrees. The two hands still together, then it's a applause, and you're on the record, colleague. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] Mr Marizzi! [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Yes, that's the danger! That is why it is good that there has been a certificate of improvement, because the danger that social democracy, when it is back on the row, opens up the housing public utility law and then increases rents is very big. If I look at your integrations in social housing, I have to say: That's close, because then a lot of money flows into the SPÖ party. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8399	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. Requested time: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8417	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Neudeck, I would take care of your checkout at your place, not ours. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It's actually exciting when you listen attentively here: This is an increase in fees in certain areas, and almost all the speakers who have spoken about an EU legislative adjustment have therefore spoken about the fact that this is actually coming from the EU. – If I remember the comments on the election evening of the EU election, we all together – or most of them – said a great deal: We must strive to sell the EU better to our citizens! – If we are constantly talking about the fact that we do not really want to, but have to make EU legislation adjustments, then the citizens will say: Oye, who in Brussels owes that the fees have been increased! I think we should start here in this House, too, really thinking: Why, then, do we have to adapt measures to EU law? – Because there are decisions in Brussels that do not fall from heaven, but are decided there in councils and other bodies! It would be quite exciting, therefore, not always to push this at EU level, but to insist that charges be increased. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Rossmann said that in the euro changeover, hundreds of millions of euros had been paid to the citizens because the government had rounded off. Today we have an example of how these rounds look! This, my dear colleague, is not a round of rounds, and the citizens have felt this very well, as your rounds have been looking out since 2000. Do you know what the tax and tax increases have been doing since 2000? – That was exactly €4 930 million, Mrs. Colleague! Do you know what citizens get back in the “great throw” – you know, tax reform? – You get exactly €4 600 million back. Thus, citizens still lack €330 million in income, purchasing power. Therefore, don't tell the citizens that you have returned them so much. The problem is, however, that the increases in fees they make here will meet the citizens once again, because if – and now I come back to my special area of communities – the municipalities will continue to be treated by this Minister of Finance and his State Secretary, then the communities will also be forced to raise their fees. Now I hear colleagues Auer saying: My sewer and water charges are cost-effective! – That’s what we’re looking at, whether there’s depreciation and everything else inside! – But we also have kindergarten fees, fees in nursing homes, we have a lot of fees in the social area, and, my dear friends Ladies and gentlemen, it is a fact that the declarations and private bankruptcy are increasing. – So we have to think slowly about how we really relieve our citizens. That can't go on, ladies and gentlemen. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] Let me also say a sentence on an agenda item in the Financial Committee, which unfortunately is not here today, because it was finished there, namely the report by the Minister of Finance on the disaster fund. – I really ask you to be very competent – all the political groups in here! – to consider carefully whether it is possible to allocate € 130 million, which has not been used for flood protection buildings, to the budget. Everyone who deals with it knows that almost nothing has happened yet. Nothing could happen because these projects need enormously long periods of time. Now we start pretty slowly with protection projects, and now this money is gone. As we can get back to the money, no one has told me yet, but the citizens in all areas or areas that have experienced the flood will not understand it if we bring these funds back to the budget and do not build sensible protection devices for these citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8484	The next speaker is Mr Doppler. Desirable time: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8502	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! My remarks refer to the amendment of the Fees Act. As I speak for the first time today as a new Parliament, please allow me a brief idea. My name is already known by the call. I was born in 1956, come from St. Jakob in the forest, the most beautiful flower village in Europe, at the same time the northernmost municipality in the district of Hartberg, I am married and father of two adult daughters. [[General condolences.]] I learned the profession of retailer after primary and secondary school. Currently I am an employee in an insurance company and since 1995 mayor of the municipality of St. Jakob im Walde. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: More mayor than National Council!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out in particular that the decision of the Council of the EU of 13 December 1957 concerning the fee law in force in 1957. In June 2003, it was necessary to adapt to the mandatory regulation. The current legal situation does not comply with EU law. The proposal proposes a moderate adjustment of fees, combined with administrative simplification, which will be largely non-existent. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would also like to refer to the amendment tabled by Mr Dr. Stummvoll, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Principal and colleagues refer to a fee exemption from criminal register entries and the issue of criminal record certificates for professional and voluntary medicaments. Only those persons who, in addition to other conditions, also have the confidence necessary for the fulfilment of the duties of the medicament are allowed to carry out the activity as a medicament. This confidentiality shall be demonstrated before the start of the activity by the submission of a criminal record certificate. Honorary rescue organizations do great things in society, and I believe it is good that we carry this liberation. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to ask for your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8551	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. 4 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8569	Poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! In the end, allow me to comment briefly on the steering effect that you will now have the National Council implement in increasing visa fees, calling on the European Union. Mr State Secretary! I accept that EU rules are not withdrawn and that joint action is also adopted nationally and in nationally. However, it is always a question of imagination, namely political imagination, how to deal with certain things. Mr State Secretary! I wonder how we national parliamentarians, when faced with such provisions, should be able to agree with the votes of the Austrian representatives in the various bodies, how should we be able to do this in the future in the case of similar things, including the specifics that exist – all countries are not to be shaved – to point out. Above all: How do we get information about whether this happened or not? Since we don't have them, we can only suspect. I now believe that no person there has pointed to the specific Austrian situation with those immigrants in Austria and with the specific countries from which they come. Most of them today have Austrian citizenship, but they do not have their relatives in Austria but at home. Mrs Hagenhofer referred to a special country, namely Bosnia-Herzegovina, because today we have discussed it with the President of the Bosnia-Herzegovina People's Council, as most of them come from there who still need a visa for Austria. Schengen countries and EU countries no longer need it, but those countries of the former Yugoslavia, with which there are the most intensive human, personal and also economic contacts, are simply and simply overcome by what people in the European Union often criticise, through this failure to respond to specific situations. If Austrian policy is to achieve the money of the poorest steering effects by cashing down on one side there and saying on the other side: I am making visa fees this way, because only poor countries that are affected by this are rich ones, I am not talking about them!, Mr State Secretary, this is a poverty sign of the European Union, which I do not wish to assess more closely here. The European Union itself – and thus Austria as well – lies in its own pocket, when it repeatedly insists: We must help Bosnia-Herzegovina, we must help Serbia and Montenegro, we must support the countries on the path to democratisation and economic construction! But when it comes to cashing off visiting visas for our Austrian citizens and their families who are still there, we do not take care of these promises of promotions! – This is the first remark. Second comment: As far as the implementation of EU rules is concerned, Austria is truly measuring with a number of dimensions, I am reading here in the explanations that – and now I am aware that it may have to be, but when does it have to be? - implementation on 1st October. ==References====External links== When does this come into force with us? ==References== August 2004! If this, Mr State Secretary, is not an insanity to the poorest of the poor who want to come to Austria to visit their relatives – I am not referring to the handicaps of tourism this time – then I also do not know where we are. Since, Mr State Secretary, you should already consider that you still represent a Christian-social party. [[Abg. May. Posch: Since when?]] Since when, Mr Posch asks. I also have the impression that it is only a neoliberal party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8606	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur obviously does not wish a final word. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law which lays down a financial conglomerate law and amends the Insurance Supervision Act, the Banking Act and other laws, including title and receipt in 520 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who have approved this draft law to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to this draft law at third reading to give an appropriate sign. – The draft law was also adopted unanimously at third reading. We now proceed to the vote on the draft federal law which amends the Fees Act, the Assessment Act, the Soil Assessment Act and the Tax Administration Organisation Act into 521 of the Supplements. To this end, Mr Matznetter, Mr Matznetter, Mr Matznetter, Mr Matznetter, Mr Matznetter, Mr Matznetter, Mr Matznetter, Mr Matz, and Mr Matznetter asked for a separate vote. First of all, I will have to vote on the parts concerned by the publishing house on separate votes and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on, in the version of the Committee's report. We shall therefore proceed to a separate vote on Rule I Z 1a and 5a as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a positive sign. – This was adopted unanimously in a separate vote. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give a sign on this point. – This finds the majority and is therefore accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are also in favour of this draft law at the third reading, to have a sign of approval. . The request is the majority of the House and is therefore adopted at third reading. I shall now vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Law on Fees, together with the title and receipt in 522 of the Supplements. I ask those Members of the House who are in favour of this, to give a corresponding sign. – The draft was adopted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I also ask here for a corresponding sign of consent or rejection. The draft was also unanimously adopted at third reading. 8. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (454 e.g._Other Organiser Agreements between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Poland on the prevention of double taxation in the areas of income taxes and of assets and of the Protocol (524 d.a.) 9. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (494, e.g._Other Organiser Agreements between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on the prevention of double taxation and on the prevention of tax evasion in the areas of income tax and wealth, and Protocol (525, e.g.) 10. Point Report by the Financial Committee on the motion for a resolution 386/A by Mr Fritz Neugebauer, Mr Josef Bucher, colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Federal Staff Representatives Act, BGBl. No. 133/1967, as last amended by the Federal Law BGBl. I No. 130/2003, amended (527 d.a.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Financial Committee on motion 388/A by Mr Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvoll, Dipl.-Ing. Thomas Prinzhorn, colleagues on a federal law amending the 1977 guarantee law (528 d.a.) 12. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (480 e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz zur Veröffentlichtungsgesetzen (Federal Liability Law) (526 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8759	We now come to points 8 to 12 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are entering the debate. Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Kogler. Desirable time: 7 minutes. . You are at the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8786	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Five agenda items are to be negotiated under one. Our group will vote against on one point, on item 11 of the agenda. But after I assume that the SPÖ Group too is voting against this point, it is obvious that in the preparation of the line of speakers there has been some confusion, so that now I have come to the benefit of the first speech. But I just want to take a short look at it. TOP 8 and 9: Double taxation agreements. Actually, it's worth mentioning once again for us TOP 12. Mr President-in-Office of the Committee will perhaps go along with this again, because today he has already praised the consensus climate on this point in advance. This is about acceptance of the federal liability for certain public institutions and even undertakings. It has become apparent that we need to differentiate from the proposal we received from the Ministry of Finance. In the course of the shattering of legal materials, it was thought that the proper exercise was that liability, which is practically dead right, if one is allowed to express it so salopp, would actually be corrected in so far as one simply takes it out of the legislative works, because over time they simply lost any sense of meaning – through passing essentially –; not so with five liabilities that were listed under about 40, which would still survive. It has been found that we, as a republic or as a company, for example; I think they are still there, would suffer a certain disadvantage compared to the status quo, if we were to take them out now, because then something else would apply to the future, namely certain EU rules, which either do not allow these acceptances of liability in the same form or, at least, only allow them under certain conditions. It may now be thought that this is also happening because the EU has also thought of something in the directive adopted there, or Guidance includes one's own wisdom. I can't judge that any more. We have moved very pragmatically back to the position that without need we would have a possibility for the Republic and for the corresponding undertakings. That is why it is now in the four-party consensus – there is then also a corresponding amendment – regulated in such a way that for the time being only those liabilities that have lost any legal relevance. However, the reference to item 11 of the agenda seems important to me. This is the guarantee law. This has a great deal to do with the AWS, which I believe is not quite wrong, with Austria Wirtschaftsservice GmbH, which we actually installed and approved with great hope a few years ago. We are probably saving ourselves at this time of time a polemic debate on this painful matter. I confine myself to noting that there is not everything for the best institutionally. With this novelle, a purely theoretically speaking clarification of certain fund pots is now taking place from my point of view. But now is the problem that we also have to go back to a particular practice. It may be financially smart that we bring together various limits of liability, which apply in different pots, in such a way that we simply sum this up for the entire volume of funds and thus raise the overall limits of liability, but there are then risk shifts here, there is an increased flexibility for the institution, which is quite clear, but there is something else in the practical situation: If you want to do so, the legislator, the National Council, who is allowed to set the corresponding ceilings per pot here, robs himself of a certain possibility of participation by bringing it together. On the other hand, we are very likely to turn to the present situation. From our point of view, it makes another sense to devote the pots as much as they are intended, and also to leave the corresponding limits there. What threatens is – and with this view we are not alone, President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors, who answered this on the occasion of a committee discussion, in which precisely these questions were dealt with, in such a way that transparency and a certain possibility of co-constitution of Parliament are lost. That is enough for me to say that we do not agree with this matter right now in the background of the current AWS. In this case, financial theoretically, it may not be useful to reconcile with reality, because it is now safer for certain operations and certain business events in the AWS to be controlled even more effectively. That is why we reject this point. Otherwise, as has been said, there is our approval everywhere. I should also like to point out that the amendments have now been resolved unanimously among the leaders of the political groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8845	Mr Neugebauer is now speaking to us for 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8863	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) On Agenda item 10, three comments on the priorities: The first point concerns § 11. The change in organisation in the Ministry of Finance – now, instead of the Regional Management Directorate, regional management is being established. tet – the corresponding staff representative bodies must be designed. That's what happens with this passage. Point two: With 1. May is the guard body's customs guard disintegrated. In part, more than 2000 colleagues are welcome to the Federal Ministry of the Interior, partly to remain in customs offices as administrative officials in the Ministry of Finance. This will also end the activity of the staff representative body. However, I note that, of course, until the end of the term of office of the staff representative, the function of the elected staff representative remains in itself. I would like to thank the customs guards for the fact that this not quite simple transfer has also been carried along very well by the colleague and has finally passed smoothly over the stage. Third point: Staff representatives' bodies should have been in the Ministry of Finance since 1. In May the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the In view of the fact that in the late autumn of this year, the term of office for these institutions is expected to take place in the event of a turn-over of personnel representatives, 1 and 2 of which are expected to take place. December of this calendar year – extended. Fourth and last points: I agree to submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This makes sense that we are not only dependent on the choice of letters in large organizational units, but also in explosives we can directly choose our colleagues, such as at universities. Ladies and gentlemen! I invite you to agree to the requests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8929	The amendment tabled by honourable Member Fritz Neugebauer by Mrs Stummvoll, Prinzhorn and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Staff Representatives Act is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Johann Moser. Requested time: 5 minutes. – Please, you are at the floor, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8957	Mr President. High house! Mr State Secretary! We shall vote in favour of Agenda items 8, 9, 10, 12, but will be against item 11 of the agenda. – I can justify this as follows. This change in the guarantee law is taking place before a truly paralyzing economy, and therefore this economic promotion facility is of particular importance. This is about flexibility – as Mr Kogler has already mentioned – of the three instruments internal guarantees, guarantees for East-West funds and capital guarantees. These are the preliminary criteria, but what is it really about? – In reality, it is about the exchange of capital guarantees at the expense of the more effective guarantees for domestic investment and for the East-West guarantees. This is not an improvement in the funding situation because private investors are held responsible and new investments are actually unclear in this context. This law remains less liable for domestic investments, for domestic guarantees. That means: Less investment can be promoted domestically. That's the central point! If you study exactly the explanations of this change, you can say: At first sight, there is actually no need to deduce from change at all. The liability frameworks are indicated with 43 percent for the domestic guarantees and 37 percent for the East-West guarantees and capital guarantees. Why do you need this change? Does the management of the Austrian Economic Service perhaps know more? Is there any potential for threats that make these changes necessary? I say: Yeah, there's her. The funding landscape of the Austria Economic Service GesmbH, the so-called corporate economic support, is facing the collapse of capital guarantees. I have studied the figures very carefully, and the result, ladies and gentlemen, is sobering! The volume has fallen steadily since 2001. There is less and less money for the economy and fewer and less liability. They take money away from the economy and direct it towards investment funds! We Socialists are for the recovery of the capital market, but not at the expense of the economy, not at the expense of the many hard-working traders, not at the expense of merchants and not at the expense of SMEs! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Kopf, the Secretary-General of the Economic Federation, who is unfortunately not present today, has assumed that we are acting on our own regarding AWS, that we are misinformed or that we are consciously juggling with numbers. [[Abg. Lentsch: He's sick!]] I ask him in absence: Why do you need to change the guarantee law anyway? That's a key question. You don't know! You want to ignore the AWS disaster! They pray – you can understand – AWS broadcasts and are obviously very poorly informed. What goes wrong in this Austrian economic service GesmbH? I say: The Austrian economic service employs taxpayers' money. I say: The AWS management has created a palace. Go to Hungariangasse 37, look at this! The rents there explode, have multiplied. Staff costs have increased by 15 percent within three years. Managing Directors are pressing their hands there because they are permanently replaced, supervisory councils are running away, funding volumes are going back, the AWS is becoming a grant company. Now, to save the AWS, the guarantee law needs to be amended. Whoever claims here that everything is palletti, has lost any economic expertise! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We Socialists are in favour of offensive economic promotion. The amendment of this law is the opposite. The objective of this amendment is not recognizable, so we are against it. I ask you from the government side that you do your homework first and eliminate the AWS disaster. I ask you to: Before you agree to this change, make an impact analysis of these three guarantee instruments, and then proceed on the basis of this analysis! You will see that the Austrian economy has no advantage through this change. We therefore reject this Husch-Hush action. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9007	The next speaker is Mr Bucher. Requested time: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9026	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The two double taxation agreements are actually the continuation of agreements with individual countries at bilateral level in order to ensure legal certainty in the area of taxation of self-employed or self-employed workers operating in these countries, in this case in Poland or Moldova. I do not want to stop too much, but rather to come to the Guarantee Change Act, which was also discussed by my previous speaker, especially with regard to AWS. I believe that we have just made a very important joint decision today, namely the National Foundation Act, according to which fresh capital for the economy, for research, for technology and development was decided by all of us and will at least be available at €125 million. Another point, of course, is a targeted economic promotion. We should all agree that this economic promotion also benefits specifically those companies that also need these capital injections. One of these very important measures to bring the economy back to the forerunner is the instrumentarium in the form of the Austria Economic Service GesmbH. I am not aware of the abuses that the SPÖ has described. Although I know the problem areas in the area of managing directors, there are no major complaints from the economic point of view of the AWS. I believe that it is now important to address an offensive, where we realize that in the near future there will be a noticeable upturn or that we are at the beginning of an upturn and that export promotion is very important. Exports are again taking a very positive course, and great successes have just been achieved in the first quarter of this year. I think it is very important to provide the AWS with a guarantee of liability, which allows it to have these 1 billion euros in place to make capital available to the dynamic economy, so that we are not faced with the situation every time we make a decision in case of new liability guarantees. From our point of view, this is a flexible handling to ensure this expansion of liability, without – you also have to say – changing the general obligation of the federal government. – It is therefore, from our point of view, a practical solution in the interests of the Austrian economy.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9068	Now, Mr. State Secretary Dr. Finz is speaking. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9086	Mr President. High house! I would like to comment on the statements made by Mr Moser. These amendments to the Guarantee Act do not affect the overall framework of €2 175,000,000. It does not change at all in this sense, but it should be possible to use this overall framework better through flexible retranspositions. Nor is it true that we are facing a precarious financial situation. ==References== In December 2003, the liability framework was 45 percent used for domestic guarantees, and in the case of guarantees under the East-West Fund and in the case of capital guarantees, we have used the framework to around 37 percent, so we have not covered anything at all, there is enough, the AWS is therefore fully operational. On the questions of renting, we held a longer discussion in the Court of Auditors, where the managing directors were present. – The rental costs currently amount to € 641 000 by changing the location. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] However, this contains still available, further sub-rentable areas of 500 square meters. Negotiations are under way. The rental costs will be reduced to € 578 000. It is true that the rental costs are higher than the former ones, but only because there has been no rental costs for the ex-Bürges and ERP funds, for example, because of their accommodation. If one compares the rental costs calculated, then in the future there will be a small rent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9126	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Donnerbauer. 5 minutes speaking time, but that is not a limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9144	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! As mentioned several times today, some of the materials to be treated here are also two double taxation agreements, one with Poland and one with Moldova. These double taxation agreements are known to provide the basis for enabling economic relations between different countries also within the European Union and, above all, to avoid double taxation of incomes and corporate profits and thereby fiscally impede economic relations between different countries. But let me go beyond these agreements, which follow a model agreement negotiated by the OECD and will therefore not provide grounds for any debate, including the importance of economic relations within Europe and the new larger European Union for this reason. These economic relations have already been very important for Austria in recent years, especially those with our neighbouring countries, which have been since 1. May be known together with us as a member of the European Union. We as a neighbouring region in Central Europe and as a neighbouring country to many of these new Member States have already benefited disproportionately from economic relations in the past. If you look at just a few figures, you can see that Austria has achieved, generated and disputed an 8 percent share of this European Eastern Trade within the EU-15, even if we have only 2% of the population of the EU-15. Another number: Exports with these new member countries have already grown to almost €13 billion in recent years and thus to more than triple the original base. These successes of Austrian companies and their employees, particularly in neighbouring neighbouring countries, in the new member countries of the European Union and in addition, have had a very positive impact on the prosperity in Austria, but also on employment in our country. In recent years, for example, 7 000 additional jobs have been created annually only by the economic success of the new Member States, with our neighbours, especially in the former Eastern bloc by our Austrian companies. This has also greatly improved the positive current account for Austria in the eighties and nineties and has been able to be balanced and, in some cases, positive in recent years. As I said, An important prerequisite for such economic relations and positive developments, of which we are very much benefiting as a bridgehead to these new Member States, are certainly harmonisations in the tax field. Only when double taxation can be prevented and avoided will there be economic incentives at all for companies to use these opportunities in the new Member States and in our neighbouring countries. But these are not the only prerequisites. There are still important conditions to be created, which has partly begun in recent years. I should just like to point out the infrastructure in the rail/road transport sector, which is particularly important for the eastern region, for my federal state of Lower Austria and for the wine district. There is still a lot to be done together, and I should like to ask and call on all those interested in the economic development of our region to participate constructively and, in spite of all the concerns that may arise in such transport infrastructure projects, to cooperate positively. These concerns should be addressed and addressed to them by appropriate measures. However, these concerns should not lead to the creation of important conditions for the continued, very positive impact of economic relations with our neighbouring countries on our region. I would like to call on all those who are interested in this development and ask them to cooperate here. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9195	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Moser to speak. Mr President, you know the Rules of Procedure: 2 minutes, no political views. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9217	Mr Finz has claimed that the rental costs of AWS amount to € 587 000. – I received an answer in a parliamentary response to the question that they amounted to €915,000 at no additional cost.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9246	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Hoscher. 4 minutes welcome. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9264	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! A few words to the Guarantee Act, first to the colleague Bucher: We are aware of the intentions behind it, and the efforts in this retranslation area, but you have mentioned that the overall framework remains the same, and that is exactly where our criticism begins: We believe that the flexibility of which one can certainly discuss is not exploited to the extent that it could be exploited if the framework was increased accordingly. That is why we will not give our consent to the guarantee law. The framework is just €2,175 billion, and as with the tax reform, no additional investment incentives are generated for the Austrian economy. In addition, as with the tax reform, there is a tendency and non-use of possible existing multiplier effects, which are still present in the national economic field, e.g. according to studies of the WIFO, and which could be used to stimulate economic growth. Because just the AWS was addressed: Perhaps one could have put the rental cost difference, which is obviously floating in the room, into the increase of the guarantee framework. – This might have been better for growth than the rental payments! One of the main objectives of the AWS is to stimulate new business start-ups. This is an essential promotion of this society. Especially as regards young entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs, promotion measures are very important, because this would also significantly relieve the labour market in the field of small and medium-sized enterprises – not only in tourism but also there – and thus generate budget savings on the other hand, so to speak, from the multipliers and from the automatic stabilizers. These include current support systems and investment incentives, but also the necessary amounts, because the best directives on funding are useless if the money behind them is not available. In particular, guarantees play a major role in this area, even in the case of new business start-ups, and in contrast to the government parties, the SPÖ has already presented an extensive concept – also publicly – in this area with the Master Plan for Young Enterprises. We would like to invite you to discuss this together with us and then implement the points. I believe that our opinions in a number of areas are not so far apart. This concept, of course, also addresses useful guarantee instruments, in addition to the proposals we have already made, such as the tax reform or risk capital funds. In our view, the current amendment to the Guarantee Act will, in contrast, have hardly any additional stimulating effects in the field of investment, and therefore, unfortunately, we do not see ourselves unable to give our consent to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9302	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. 4 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9322	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, a few brief comments on agenda items 8 and 9. They are both double taxation agreements, on the one hand between Austria and Poland and, on the other hand, between Austria and the Republic of Moldova. The basis for this is an OECD Directive, which is a statement of income and wealth to be made. For this purpose, basics and calculation modes should be defined. The purpose is transparency and legal certainty. For example, if a citizen who lives in Austria works in Poland, a double taxation should be paid or a tax evasion should be avoided. Both double taxation agreements are ultimately also to be seen as promoting economic relations between these countries. Now a few remarks to the Federal Liability Act: Originally, the abolition of 55 special laws for federal liability was planned. – Now it's 55. Parliament is going a different way. We usually make new laws in this house. It may also be necessary to make school if we are now putting down legislation that is obsolete with this measure. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is a task for Parliament, and I can imagine that such a procedure would give a sense of happiness to one or another colleague. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Legalisation in connection with the Federal Liability does not mean any intervention in existing federal liability, and I would also like to point out that most of the federal laws to be lifted are acceptance of liability in favour of national companies that no longer exist or are already fully or partially privatized in this form. It should also be noted that, in a liberalised market area, the Federal Government's acceptance of liability for individual companies is, in principle, problematic and, as a general rule, no longer permitted. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Finally, let me say a few words about our colleague, Mr Matznetter. I heard that the Committee was very brief and that your speech was very short. Today, you have also referred to Agenda items 5 to 7 very briefly. I am seriously concerned about you, Mr Matznetter. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9366	Mr Dr. Finz, State Secretary, spoke again. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9384	Mr Moser! We are talking about the same answer to the question. The actual rental costs for 2004 – and this is what you will find in the request response – amount to around € 641 000 and will continue to be reduced to € 578 000. - That's what it says inside. However, the AWS management made a calculatory cost comparison because, as I have already said, the Burghauptmannschaft does not require rents for various fund institutions. Therefore, a correct comparison between the old and the new location was not possible. The €915,000 is a fictitious, calculatory value. As it turns out, the answer to this question is clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9416	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Long rider. 4 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9435	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The amendment of the guarantee law was mentioned at least by every second speaker. Of course, the Minister of Finance will facilitate the takeover of guarantees for corresponding capital in domestic transactions and increase the minimum legal framework, and that is good. Overall, more flexible management is achieved, and, of course, the requirements of the economic location are also met when using the limits of liability. I do not want to go to a polemizing level, as Mr Kogler has said, as far as the AWS is concerned. In my opinion, the AWS is a very important segment – or at least a very important institution – that also strengthens the economic location accordingly. Mr Moser may have confused my knowledge of the 2001 figures with those of 2004, and he himself was the one who voted in favour of a capital guarantee framework extension, but in the end he did not agree. This means that the funding volume for the last year is also reached. I want to break a lance for the company now because the opposition always takes the AWS as the reason for political hacking. This company works well. Of course, mergers are expensive, not a question. Fusions are not free of charge and not free of frustrations, but if you look at the current account of the AWS, you can see that it is positive. Finally, this is crucial for Austria's economic location. The AWS supported around 2000 business start-ups in 2003, creating 1 000 jobs. In 2003, an investment volume of just under €900 million was mobilised, and ultimately the 200 employees in this company are also employed, ladies and gentlemen, and they really don't deserve to make them the ball of the opposition. I am perhaps one of the few in this House who has had to deal with the AWS indirectly as mayor and district politician. My experience with this funding bank is an extremely good one, even as regards a project with an investment volume of almost €65 million. Ladies and gentlemen! The preparation and planning of this project were truly supported by the AWS in a professional, prompt manner and the needs accordingly. There was no mention of any long processing times, but quite the contrary: The appointment with this company was good. We hope that we can actually implement this project in the next few months. Finally, we have got what we wanted from the AWS, because it is not easy to orient ourselves accordingly in this funding conglomerate. Ladies and gentlemen! All in all, the criticism of the opposition as far as the AWS is concerned is not justified. We need this instrument for the economic location of Austria, we need it for the development of the site and also for the creation of jobs. That is the decisive!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9489	Mr Oberhaidinger is now speaking to us for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9507	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The government template with the really very bulky title “Bundeshaftsrechtsverificationsgesetz” has already been addressed by some of my predecessors. The title is actually very bulky, but the purpose of this template is a good one, as has already been mentioned several times. Deadly right, I say just as salopp as one of my previous speakers, is unraveled. In the draft it was originally 55 laws, from 1953 to 2002 which should be corrected. For my group, the financial committee has asked whether this law also corrects liability which existed at the time of our accession to the EU and which is still permitted despite liberalisation. We were specifically concerned with five laws, two of which concern the connection and one the AUA, the airport and the Voest. We have raised our concerns as to whether we can reintroduce these laws in exactly this form if we abolish them today. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I have to say that you have raised our concerns, it has been discussed and has not just passed over, and we have agreed at the Committee meeting that these concerns will be examined. On this basis, we have agreed to the Committee subject to certain conditions. Today, as we have already heard, the chairmen of the political groups have agreed on an amendment to remove these five laws. Under these conditions, we agree with both the law and the amendment proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9541	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Liechtenstein. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9559	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to put a few personal words at the beginning of my speech and to address something that has meant a great deal to me since my youth, namely a few Europe and now also a new rise of a largely united Central Europe. That's why the 1st was for me. May this year a great day of joy. Excessive borders, which did not always exist, have finally fallen, and our Austria and Vienna have again become an essential centre of Europe, geographically in the middle of our continent. It is therefore also nice for me that I am here today with a new law which can bring positive results for this European development, even though there has been a great deal of scepticism here today, namely in the area of the guarantee law. The guarantee law – which has already been said several times today – regulates the acceptance of the federal liability for the guarantees of the AWS for companies. By means of the initiative proposal of Mr Stummvoll and Mr Prinzhorn, the amount of liability for domestic guarantees, guarantees under the East-West Fund and capital guarantees will be increased from € 725 million to € 1 billion each, which has already been addressed. ==References== December 2003 – the Secretary of State has already mentioned this – the liability framework for domestic guarantees amounted to about 45 percent, in the case of guarantees under the East-West Fund to around 37 percent and in the case of capital guarantees to around 37 percent. However, as has been demonstrated in practice, the degree of use of the liability framework in the case of capital guarantees is due to the To consider the nature of this business from a different point of view than with the other two business segments. In order to ensure the equivalence of the support measure in all business areas, it is therefore necessary to establish the possibility of a flexible handling of the maximum framework in relation to the business areas. It has also been mentioned that the total liability amount of €2,175 billion, which already results from three times 725 million for the individual guarantees, remains unchanged. This application creates the possibility of flexible use of the liability framework and thus allows greater consideration of the needs of the economy. That is why I am in favour of this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9604	Mr Magistrate has the power to make a recent actual correction. Moser to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9626	Mr State Secretary! I'm reading the part: ‘The net rent costs of AWS (excluding ERP funds) for the year...’
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9641	Deputies! Mention First, the claim to be corrected!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9656	It is to be corrected that Mr Finz, State Secretary, said that the actual rental costs amount to € 587 000. This must be corrected on the basis of a request from the Ministry of Finance, in which it is written: ‘The net rent costs of AWS (excluding ERP funds) for 2004 at the new Hungariangasse site amount to around € 641 000.’ "To this, actual net rent costs of AWS and ERP funds at the Hungariangasse site are about €915,000. The effective rent for ERP funds is € 274 000. These are part of the total amount of € 915 000.’ Therefore, € 641 000 plus € 274 000 is €915,000.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9694	Now we all definitely know each other! The next speaker is Mr Dkfm. Dr. Bauer. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9717	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to briefly replicate some of my previous speakers. If Mr Donnerbauer is somewhat confused and believes that double taxation is a contribution to tax harmonisation, I would like to point out the differences, since tax harmonisation in Europe is usually understood differently. As far as the infrastructure in the Eastern Region is concerned, I agree that it should be extended and that the projects should be supported, but I think that we are actually relatively slow to develop, considering that the Iron curtain fell in 1989. In the Eastern region under discussion, the necessary investments, which have not been made for many decades due to the peripheral situation, are not being quickly recovered, as we expected, but rather long periods of time are given. I would also like to refer to the statement that the AWS employees should not become the ball of the opposition. - That's far from us. It was not the work that was attacked only by a single employee or the work as a whole, but the operations in the AWS. And they are truly so that you can't be satisfied if so many changes take place in the leadership, but even if you experience that this organization simply doesn't develop as we all expected. The importance of the AWS is undisputed, and precisely that is why we are also so keen on this discussion, precisely because it is an important institution and because it is necessary to organise it in such a way that it is strong. Mr Bucher spoke of an extension – and now I am referring to the guarantee law – of the guarantee framework. To this end, it must be noted that he probably did not fully understand these three pots, because it is clear that it is really only about the third pot. The other two would be slightly reduced by this because the maximum frame remains the same, namely, €2.175 billion. This means that this is very likely to be seen in a connection with the AWS. The question is, therefore, whether we really want this change, whether institutional investors prefer something, especially venture capital companies and others. Whenever it is said that only 37 percent of the capital guarantee framework is currently exploited, this is actually not quite right, because these 37 percent are fixed commitments, while already commitments, some kind of commitments, are available to 100 percent, as the investment bankers or those who want to place venture capital only place if the commitment is already in the background. Therefore, this bottle is in the third pot, which is why it seems necessary to carry out this shift. We are opposed because we believe that this means that there is no longer any balance in the funding pots and that, in the end, a certain degree of arbitrariness is possible in the award. I think this is a very important reason, because the previously fixed allocation was a guarantee that all three guarantee pots are equivalent. Now we should have a shift; we simply can't go with it. I think it would be good to talk about support policy in Austria as a whole, because we really do need an investment boost at many levels, which is truly not enough because of these funding measures, which have now been considerably reduced on a tax basis. The discussion on funding policy should be conducted in principle. We are willing to do so in the Financial Committee, where the basis of the discussion is very good, which has been confirmed. I do not see that under the title of flexibilisation – and that is why it was justified – a different distribution is actually to be created within the three types of guarantee. It is also not the case that a successful lobbying of certain institutional investors could shift the contribution balances. In this sense, we cannot give our consent from the SPÖ. We have made our considerations up, but we are willing to discuss funding policy as a whole, because I believe that there must indeed be more impetus for the economy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9788	Mr Brader is now speaking to us for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9806	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Today, a federal law that amends the Federal Staff Representative Act is also included in the negotiation. This change was necessary because, with the entry into force of the amendment to the tax administration organisation law, the previous financial country directors were dissolved and certain functions beyond the individual economic area, which were previously carried out by the financial country directors, were divided into new areas of responsibility and transferred to the Ministry of Finance. However, these regions of tax and customs coordination are not centrally perceived by the Federal Ministry of Finance, but are divided into just five regions. This new organisational design requires appropriate adaptation to the Staff Representative Act. Consequently, a relevant technical committee must be established in each of these regional tax and customs coordination groups. Furthermore, according to a meeting with the Federal Chancellor and the Minister of Finance of the Guards, customs guard was dissolved and, of course, the activities of the staff representative bodies ended. However, in order to maintain the continuity of these staff representatives, the elected staff representative bodies, the bodies currently selected should be able to continue their activities until the next election of personnel representatives. At this point I would like to thank all the staff representatives in the field of customs guard and their colleagues, because the time of this change was certainly not easy for them. On the whole, however, the draft law presented today is one of the most realistic adaptations, which means security and a legal representation for the obligations of staff representation. That is why we welcome this request. Finally, I would like to say that for the first time I was allowed to participate as a substitute member at a meeting of the Financial Committee and was quite surprised by the climate in this committee and the constructive work. I would like to thank all the members of the committee very much at this point.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9857	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9876	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that today's debate on a number of financial laws has also shown that capital market issues, financial market issues, ultimately money issues, I say, to a great extent, are very sensitive issues. That is why I have repeatedly expressed my interest in a very broad consensus as a committee chairman. I would also like to thank some speakers for mentioning the constructive climate in the Financial Committee today. I believe that we could do even more efficiently and in an even wider consensus if, Mr State Secretary – that would be the request to the Ministry of Finance – we had some documents before. I am happy that we are also making informal discussions, as we have, for example, made several times – for me, this was actually a model example of a good course – in the financial market supervision at the time. At that time we held several informal debates and then came to a broad consensus on a very delicate, important and sensitive issue. This is about stability for investors and security for savers. These are sensitive questions. I believe that the Committee is willing to discuss very constructively, but we need to be informed about such projects at an early stage. Therefore, my request to you, Mr State Secretary, and also to the Minister of Finance, to inform us as early as possible of such financial management reform projects, in order to give us a broad consensus, regardless of specific or short-term committee dates, even in informal debates. I'm not an illusionist. I know there will always be interests, there will be differences. But, for example, Mr Bauer's suggestion to hold an informal principle debate on support policy seems to me to be very reasonable. I would like to pick them up, but it is essential that we get the documents and information earlier on from the Ministry of Finance in major reform projects where there is a chance that we can reach a consensus. That would be my request, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9922	Mr Jakob Auer has been speaking for three minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9943	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! I should like to underline what my previous speaker and colleague Günter stupidly said to the Ministry of Finance that it would be important to prepare for a variety of templates in the sense of agreement to get some documents actually earlier. Mr Oberhaidinger rightly pointed out that the Committee agreed that a number of points still need to be clarified in the German Federal Liability Law, which is so simply formulated. I am therefore entitled to comply with the commitment made today between the leaders of the political groups to the need for an amendment and a review and to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] In this sense, we would like to agree with the ÖVP of the new bill.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9995	The amendment tabled by Mr Jakob Auer, Dr. Stummvoll, Bucher, Dr. Matznetter, Mag. Kogler and colleagues are sufficiently supported and involved in the negotiations. The last speaker is Mrs Sburny. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10019	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I will address the issue of guarantee law once again, because in the course of the debate I have found that you are very loosely dealing with hundreds of millions of euros on the part of the government groups as regards the AWS. As you have found, including President Khol, that you are no longer aware of the fact that Mr Moser has made an actual correction, I would like to help you to know again and to know why we Greens will certainly not agree to this point. To make sure you know: The Supervisory Board of the AWS has decided a rent limit of € 900 000. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: We know all issues!]] - Good. I'm going to explain this more precisely so I can be quite sure. The Supervisory Board of the AWS has decided a rent limit of € 900 000. The answers from Minister Grasser both to colleagues Moser and to me have shown that the rent of the AWS is not €900 000 and not €645,000 or €641 000, as Mr Finz claimed, but €915,000 per year. In addition, leasing contracts that go over ten years that have been concluded in connection with the lease agreement amount to an additional € 800 000 per year. We therefore come to €1.7 million a year, even if you sigh, Mr Scheibner. This is just over €900, which the Supervisory Board has decided. [[Abg. Scheibner: I was completely destroyed on the ground!]] I don't think that's Lappalie, and I don't think it's ridiculous to get these things to the point. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is above all precisely why we will not agree to this amendment to the guarantee law, because there is a further transparency taking place here. It is no longer to distinguish from which pot which warranty is taken, but you try to put the whole in a pot. Even the President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors of the Council of Ministers of the European Union said that this would not serve transparency at the time. For this reason and because In order to ensure transparency and also the control of Parliament, we will not agree to this amendment of the guarantee law.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10084	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Final words are not desired. [[Abg. Neudeck: You wish!]] We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the request made by the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in question: Agreements with the Republic of Poland to avoid double taxation in the areas of income taxes and of assets, together with the Protocol, in 454 of the Supplements. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign. – This has been adopted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in question: Agreements with the Government of the Republic of Moldova to avoid double taxation and to prevent tax evasion in the areas of income taxes and assets, together with Protocol 494 of the Supplements. Whoever gives these, I ask him for a sign. – Authorisation shall be granted unanimously. Furthermore, we reach the vote on the draft federal law amending the Federal Staff Representatives Act in 527 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have been silent, Dipl.-Ing. Mr Principal, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment. In view of the fact that there is only one request, I shall immediately vote on the draft law, taking account of the proposed amendment. We come to the vote on the draft law in 527 of the Supplements, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report, taking into account the amendment tabled by Dr. Stummvoll, Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn, ladies and gentlemen. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever is also in favour of this draft law in third reading, I would ask him to give an appropriate sign. The draft was also unanimously adopted at third reading. We now proceed to the vote on the draft federal law amending the guarantee law, including the title and receipt in 528 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the proposal at second reading to give an appropriate sign. – The request will be made by the majority. He is therefore accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees in third reading, I ask for a sign on this matter. . Here too, approval is given by a majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Finally, we come to the vote on the draft Federal Liability Law, in 480 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Dr. Stummvoll, Bucher, Dr. Matznetter, Mag. Kogler, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment which refers to the deletion of a number of points in § 1. In view of the fact that only this one request is made, I would like to refer immediately to the draft law 480 of the supplements, together with the title and receipt, taking account of the amendment tabled by Dr. Stummvoll, Bucher, Dr. Matznetter, Mag. Kogler, ladies and gentlemen. Whoever stands up for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees in third reading, I ask for a positive sign. – In third reading too, the draft finds the unanimous approval of the House. He was therefore adopted at the third reading. 13. Point First reading: Request by Mr Karl Ollinger, Members of Parliament, concerning a Federal Constitutional Act on the establishment and activity of an unemployment attorney (404/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10150	We arrive at the 13th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10174	Mr President. It is, of course, difficult to bring you such a subject, especially at this time of day and after we have already debated the issue of unemployed people, again. 800,000 people, 900,000 people are affected by unemployment sometime a year. - So far, so bad. The point is: None of these people like to be unemployed and remain unemployed. No one intends to stay in unemployment any longer, but still happens It's always over and over. If you are unemployed, you have a problem in particular: In contrast to almost all groups of society, one has no representation of interest.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10206	I would ask you not to turn your back on the speaker constantly!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10222	Unlike all other groups in society, there is no one, no representation of interest. Can now Of course you ask: Is that what the unemployed need? This can also be done by the representatives of the workers, the voluntary or the legal, the trade unions or the workers' chambers. There's a problem. There is an entire package of scientific literature, which clearly demonstrates that there are also, of course, interests between unemployed and working people that work people primarily – and that is not something objectionable, but something completely Of course – want to maintain and represent their interests and to face up to the interests of unemployed people. There can be so much good will, that's just so. We have representations of interest for students, for students, we have an attorneyship for children and for young people, there are senior lawyers, yes, it is also discussed or advised about animal prosecutions, but unemployment attorneyships or representations are not available in this Republic. – Not even in other republics; this has to be said about honesty. At the same time, it is a huge problem because, as far as their position is concerned, the unemployed are largely lawless towards the authority with which they are most often involved, the AMS. If the AMS imposes sanctions against the unemployed, they will be enforced, and it is only when this penalty is enforced that one can appeal against it. One cannot in the past cause the authority to issue a decision which is to be objected to, and after the procedure has been completed, the penalty will come to an end. This is common in civil law, but it is not the case with the unemployed. I can also tell you from practice of the courts or of an authority that has been repeatedly involved in the past years, the People's Procuratorate, that the number of complaints of the unemployed has grown because of unemployment towards the AMS. The AMS is actually only acting as a mediator for us, for the legislator, because we are ultimately responsible for the laws, because of which the unemployed feel offended and who are just being implemented by the AMS. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, and not only because the public prosecutor has frequently dealt with these complaints, the courts also often deal with these complaints, for example the Administrative Court has to deal with many complaints relating to the unemployment insurance law, an excess, very often also the Constitutional Court is still being dealt with, would it be to consider – but not only for this reason – in the legal debate with the authority, whether there is a more down-to-earth institution in place here, which acts with the Council and the Act, but also in the legislative process as an advisory body, which passes on information to those concerned, advises the unemployed and, of course, also produces the public. Because this is a problem and so that you can see how much people feel about it, I would like to quote you very briefly from a knowledge of the Constitutional Court. There a complainant in Upper Austria – and it is not by chance Upper Austria; there are many complaints to the AMS in Upper Austria – has requested the recognition of unemployment benefit. – And this has nothing to do with black and green, Mr Scheibner. [[Abg. Scheibner: That you say, in Upper Austria there are many complaints, I understand!]] The complaint is, by the way, from 1995. However, Mr Scheibner, we are still discussing this. The complainant has received unemployment benefit, with the requirement that he not report to the AMS every day, but to the municipality. The complainant, on the other hand, objected, and finally after years and years, of course, because he did not comply with these control dates every time, also lost unemployment benefit for a period of two months, was entitled, because it is completely unacceptable to submit to someone, not to report to the AMS, but to the municipal office once a day. The Gemeinschaftsamt is not responsible for employment placement. Clear thing! The AMS should also have recognized that there is no competence here. It was obviously just a shock. They say: We do not trust him over the way, he shall go every day to the office of the congregation. The complainant claimed that the road to the municipal office is five kilometers back and five kilometers away. And as is common in rural communities – Kopping in the Sauwald, I know that – you have to walk there. That is, one is one hour to one and a half hours on the way out and one to one and a half hours on the return route, only so that the municipal office finds out that he has reported himself. Nothing else happens to the person. And this person is supposed to do it every day! This procedure, Mr Scheibner – the appeal comes from a previous year – takes, of course, in the appeal path – Constitutional Court, initially Administrative Court – years. After years, the complainant receives law, and the Constitutional Court finds that the principle of equality has been violated. It should be possible in a country such as Austria that we do not have to process such problems until the Constitutional Court, until the Administrative Court, where it is clear for a long time before everyone concerned that this simply has nothing to do with the matter of employment placement. There are sometimes more difficult problems, but very often, as in this House here, many things can be done through conversation, information, mediation, contact. Ladies and gentlemen! You've got the draft ahead of you. The aim is to set up a federal unemployment prosecution, which is also to be used by a political authority, in this case by Parliament. We propose serious discussion of an unemployment prosecution. Especially at European level, action is currently being discussed by the EU Commission, in cooperation with unemployment initiatives, unemployment advice agencies, how to recover unemployed people and how to improve communication, information, cooperation with unemployed people, unemployment initiatives and their political participation. And for that, the unemployed's attorney's proposal, whether you want to go closer to the specific model or have another proposal, would be a very important measure, in our view, so that the persons concerned are no longer threatened by stigmatization, exclusion and affected.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10272	The next speaker was Mr Huainigg. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Before the honourable Member takes the floor, however, I would like to congratulate him warmly on his birthday today.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10300	Mr President. Look at ladies and gentlemen in the high house! Thank you very much for the congratulations! Every unemployed person is a unemployed person too much. It must also be seen that, of course, behind every unemployment, personal fates also hide that one has fewer incomes, less family incomes available. One has to consider poverty traps, and unemployed people often also fall into a certain timelessness, it is difficult to keep social contacts out of a team. It is really a great effort of the Federal Government to owe unemployed people to the working world. There are many attempts in this context. I see this in the case of disabled people, where we have created, for example, inclusive vocational training, which will allow for an important step from school to the world of work. Furthermore, through part-qualified teaching and personal assistance at the workplace, we have created opportunities for people with high care needs to integrate them into the labour market. This will also provide them with the necessary care and support in the workplace and will be able to pursue employment or continue to do so in the event of an increase in disability. [[I should like to congratulate the EIA, the Greens, and the Greens.]] However, we have not yet found the stone of the sages, you have to admit – and I do not think that this solicitorship, which stimulates you, would be the stone of the sages, I think, an additional authority. Moreover, there is a risk that other authorities, like the AMS, will also clean themselves up and say: In any case, the attorney's office is in charge, and we'll get rid of the responsibility! I find it more sensible to take existing institutions more into account that they carry out their tasks more strongly, and I also find it superior to extending competences, for example – which will certainly also result in the subsequent discussion – whether or not to instruct the public prosecutor to control subordinated, outsourced bodies such as the AMS – and, if there are problems, to intervene. At any rate, I believe that your request is an important incentive to hold this discussion, which is important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10349	The next speaker is Mrs Silhavy. 5 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10369	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Unemployment certainly means – we already had an agenda item on labour market policy today – a situation that represents enormously difficult conditions for people. I would now like to point out, for a number of times, the Marienthal study, which was carried out many decades ago, but essentially an analysis is still valid, how people in unemployment are going, what the psychological meaning of the financial and social policy for them is, and what health consequences unemployment is. The demand for an unemployment attorneyship, an unemployed speaker, is a call for the poverty conference, and we know that unemployment is one of the biggest poverty traps in Austria. However, this is also in line with the EU's intentions, which provide for the participation of those concerned, i.e. the unemployed, in labour market policy concepts. Although I do not believe that a transfer of this task to the People's Procuratorate would be in line with these EU intentions, I must say that the Greens' request goes too much towards the People's Procuratorate! This would only limit participation of unemployed people, and we would create an institution that would be institutionalized, but that would only be possible to a very limited extent. Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like us to make it possible, in terms of the question of the representation of the interests of unemployed people in the Committee, to discuss the content, the subject matter and the form in which we could do it. My greatest wish would be for us to do so with the involvement of stakeholders and representatives of the groups concerned, because this initiative comes from groups that have a major focus on unemployed people. These are representatives from these areas who are confronted with these concerns and problems every day. What we certainly do not want to do is to create a better job for the unemployed or a more intensive advice centre – for this there are already institutions that have to carry out this task – but we need a place where the unemployed can also get directly to the policy where they are able to assess or participate in legislation. I think we should try to comply with this intention. Today, all of them - I think this has happened on the part of all the political groups - have found: If we want employment policy, if we want to improve labour market policy, then everyone needs to be involved; it is not enough to just turn on a wheel, but we need an economic policy that is starting accordingly, we need a labour market policy that is starting accordingly, we need a tax policy that is based on it – and we also need a growth and education policy. This brings me back to a point that we have already discussed today. If it is to be binding in the future, it is another point, I think, on which it would be useful – there will probably not be everything so “class” from time to time; there will be problems, I could imagine – to have a corresponding point of contact. I personally wish that this question, which is an extremely sensitive one, should be dealt with more seriously: This is not the x-te lawyer's office, but since it concerns people in a particular situation, it is the But people who are often unable to be, so to speak, a speech tube for themselves. Unemployed people – there are investigations – and since women are again, they are more likely to withdraw and do not make public abuses or problems known. On the contrary! Unemployment – and interestingly: the more unemployed there are, the more often this happens – also attracts a certain stigmatization. This means that although there are fewer jobs than people who are unemployed, unemployed people are often tried to mediate: You're guilty yourself, because you don't have the qualification or other shortcomings! Therefore: In order to work out exactly this deficit that society actually has, we need such a point of contact as we demand from the SPÖ. I would therefore very much ask you to discuss this motion for a resolution, which we have tabled on this subject, but which would, as it were, involve a lower level of access to this subject, and to deal seriously with this issue in the Committee – and not that it is said: There are other things anyway; we could delay that anyway! Again: I would be very concerned about this issue at this first reading.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10440	Mr Walch is now speaking. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10458	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Oellinger, you said it here today: It is difficult with this proposal! - Yes, I already have a little bit of a problem with it. While I am in favour of informing the unemployed that they are supported accordingly, I should like to point out that: At the national employment offices there is an advisory board, with members of the legal representation of interests; in addition, the Chamber of Labour provides information; for guest workers, there are foreign associations in the Chamber of Workers or these associations receive public funding. To the one, Mr. Oellinger, you said that there must be a member of the community in Linz: This is completely new to me because the community has nothing to do with the AMS or with such a report. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] Therefore, my or our opinion is that we do not approve of this request, because what we have decided this morning is already done. And if there are still problems there, it is also the task of politicians to send those concerned to where they are given advice. In addition, this also does the AMS! This is not to take away anything in an evil way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10500	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment 404/A to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. The agenda is exhausted. Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10533	We are now negotiating the request made by Dr Eva Glawischnig, colleagues and colleagues to set up a committee of inquiry on the responsibility of the Federal Minister Gehrer as the supervisory body of the Federal Museums with regard to the lack of consequences from obvious misunderstandings in the Art History Museum. This request has now been distributed to all Members. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10612	We are going into the debate. You know the Rules of Procedure: 5 minutes of speaking time; 10 minutes for the first speaker, for members of the Federal Government a maximum of 10 minutes. First, Mrs. Dr. Believable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10636	Mr President. – No one is there from the Federal Government. - High house! We have not made this request for the establishment of a committee of inquiry for fun, not because we are somehow fad or because we want to ride unqualified cultural policy attacks against a deserved museum director, but because we are concerned about one of the most important institutions, an institution that is among the top five in the international ranking, as far as Old Masters is concerned, and because we are concerned that this institution comes to a self-service shop. We have already received a very critical opinion from the Court of Auditors in 1998-1999 on the construction of the structure according to the partial right, according to its full rights. He has massively criticized that there is only one managing director who can switch and operate without control, without four-eye principle as he wishes. In view of the company's books in 2002, we then identified a number of inconsistencies which were also not clarified by the Minister's request for answers. All documents have been sent to the Court of Auditors and the result, which was partly quoted in the media two weeks ago, gives us a hundred percent right. And the accusations are much more massive than we formulated them at the time. These allegations concern very serious things, namely a complete mixture of responsibility as a museum director and of obvious private interests: The private car Seiels has been sold to the museum. A very high salary increase has been approved in recent years. The museum director now has a salary between that of the chancellor and that of the vice chancellor. In addition, secondary activities have been carried out as a consul for the Minister. It was bought a Sphinx in the order of a few million dollars, but it does not appear in the balance sheet. If they had been released there, the KHM would have been in bankruptcy. Tombs, so-called figurines, have been purchased in the six-pack, although the museum wanted to buy only four – the other two have, as it were, been privately turned off. Accounting is better protected than so many works of art. For example, the Court of Auditors criticises that he has not managed to obtain an electronic transmission of the data concerning accounting, that he has not been able to obtain a computer space at the museum to see the accounting that he has de facto been disabled when verifying the legality of accounting. And all this against the background of several million euros of tax money that the Republic makes available to the largest art institution, the cultural institution of Austria every year! We are seriously concerned that the Kunsthistorische Museum has come to a self-service shop with this tour. Since the theft of the “Saliera”, the feeling has been that the minister – no matter what happens – is behind this director and does not in any way question whether this is still appropriate, whether it is still worthy of defense and whether it is still in any form her responsibility as a minister. Now I would like to invite you to a little self-experience trip. Imagine, you have a hammer, a chisel and a flashlight with you, and you are now accompanying me with the theft of the “Saliera”! And I tell you, each and every one of you here in this room would have managed to steal the “Saliera”. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: We are not thieves!]] I will explain it to you precisely, and I will also give you the safety rules on this spiritual journey once again. The Kunsthistorische Museum has two security systems. One comes from 1985, so it is an old security system consisting essentially of surveillance cameras, which are motion detectors; they react de facto to movements. These surveillance cameras are normally installed, even in the room where the “Saliera” was located. Furthermore, there are modern security systems, but not in the room where the “Saliera” was established, but in the large storerooms. These are, as one also knows from films, “tapes” in front of the pictures, ultrasound filters in front of the works of art. If you attack, the alarm will be triggered. However, this kind of security does not exist in the room where the “Saliera ” stands. There is a surveillance camera next to these motion detectors – three pieces in three corners. However, this only turns on when light is turned on. However, light does not automatically turn on when the alarm goes off, but the official who is in the house must run from the basement to the first floor – two floors – and there the lights switch. Then the light – and the camera. So, as a thief, imagine approaching from the two-line with a hammer and a chisel... [[Abg. May. Molterer: There is no thief in this house!]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: We can't imagine that!]] – A pure game of thought! Not you, Mr. Molterer. I would never assume that you stole the “Saliera”! The situation of security measures is so dramatic that you really have to think it through. So you go from the two-line with hammer, chisel and flashlight to the structure. The structure is not secured. There you can open a poorly locked door and then go up through individual steps to the window of the room IV, where the “Saliera” stands. They hit the window with the hammer – nothing happens! In many museums, for example, there is a magnetic filter that immediately alerts when the glass is broken. You can't do that there. [[Abg. Neudeck: Now you just have to say where you have hidden them!]] You can then stand in the room and comfortably smoke a cigarette because the three motion detectors do not capture exactly this dead angle. So they're standing there and smoking. Accepted Mr. Professor Van der Bellen stands there and smokes. [[General hustle and bustle.]] He's got enough time to do it. The watchman sits in front of the TV, looks at the football Em or whatever. Then go to the glass vitrine, hit the glass Vitrine with the hammer – and then the alarm goes off. You take the “Saliera”, head back to the window, climb the scaffolding down and drive by tram, by subway or by car from there. The alarm triggered. He was identified as a false alarm, not as a real alarm, because there are 130 false alarms per year in the Art History Museum. And the thief or thief is happy with the “Saliera” from the art-historical museum across the two-line. I described this so dramatically because it was really a children's game. It is, I think, easier to crack a chewing rubber machine than the “Saliera”, one of the most important works of the Italian Old Masters from the Art History Museum. We are massively accusing that the safety precautions in the KHM have been extremely slammed. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Why was the structure not secured? Why can you hit a window without an alarm? Why install a video camera that doesn't turn on automatically when the alarm comes in? Why does the security officer have to overcome two floors? Even if he's a Sprinter, he needs at least five minutes to turn on the light so that the camera will turn on. Why is the “Saliera” completely without object protection in a room where only motion detectors are installed? Why is it not protected by one of these modern microwave carpets? And why is this a security system that is 20 years old and not State of the Art? These are all the accusations that Mr Seizel must make. We know that the “Saliera” was one of KHM’s most important works of art. And what's amazing for me is that the minister, without even in any way questioning whether everything was all right or not, is always automatically standing in front of the director at every accusation, regardless of whether these are the balance sheet beauties, whether this is one of the biggest art robbery since the theft of the "Mona Lisa". And it not only identifies the Austrian police, but it is internationally determined the Germans, the Swisss and the Italians. Why is all this possible with a minister who says this person is sacrosanic, he has done everything right? On the basis of all of this, we are putting in place this request for the setting up of an investigation committee, not least because I believe that a large part of political responsibility is not taken up here. And I would also ask you to think seriously about whether this could continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10729	Next speaker: Mrs Dr Wolfmayr. You're having a hard time now. Your speaking time is 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10762	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't want to go on now. She – admittedly – is already engaging in amusing, imaginary, staged art rapture game, not in the flappy-polemic style of “come to a self-service shop” and “privately turned off” which I believe are assumptions, but would like to express a few fundamental things to the present request of the Greens, who, superficially, refers to the alleged maladies in the Art History Museum, but rather the Minister, but above all, the Director-General Seipel in the visor. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: This is not “imginated”! She's gone, the "Saliera"!]] Ladies and gentlemen, what is happening now? – Parts of the opposition call for consequences – and that in a matter that has long been on the path of legal treatment! A raw report – and the emphasis is on raw! – the Court of Auditors is not the subject of public debates or the consequences thereof. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bauer.]] The raw report of the Court of Auditors on the Art History Museum is currently being analysed by the Executive Board and the Board of Directors of the Art History Museum and the Cultural Section in the Ministry of Education. An opinion to the Court of Auditors will be delivered within the three months provided for by law. The Court of Auditors then examines this opinion. The report of the Court of Auditors will then be forwarded to Parliament and the committee responsible. – This is the procedure; You know this one. Only then will this report be the subject of the public debate. And only then will it be shown which criticism points to discuss and whether any consequences can be drawn. - That's how the law runs. The fact that some criticisms are already being discussed in the public, which has ultimately led to this debate today, is for me nothing but an expression of political unculture. That's a kind of pre-condemnification! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Bauer.]] I really wonder, ladies and gentlemen, about the opposition: What about your relationship with fundamental principles of justice, that the other side also needs to be heard before a judgment is passed? This audiatur et olda pars, where is it with you? [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: The investigative committee should do this! That is the purpose of the Committee.]] What about your relationship to the suspicion of innocence, to the principle that no one – I emphasize: no one! – can it be pre-condemned?
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10838	Mr Matznetter and Mr Bauer, I think you have already stressed your quantity of calls. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10860	The disclosure of raw reports by the Court of Auditors would nevertheless lead to the ad absurd procedure laid down by law. If the Court of Auditors' raw reports are discussed in public, you can save yourself the final reports! Then there is no way for the audited institutions to take a stand, to interpret every opportunity for politicians and journalists, and to decide, on the basis of assumptions and subjective perception, whether criticism is justified or not. In our opinion, however, this has nothing to do with serious and objective assessment! As has already been said: The disclosure of the facts required by you takes place, which is point by point. The opinion will be delivered. As I have heard, you also want Minister Gehrer to comment on this. – I can calm you down: Mrs Gehrer will also address your allegations at a meeting of the Committee on Culture before the summer, and most likely be able to discourage them. Finally, I would like to say that the current Director General of the Kunsthistorisches Museum Wilfried Seipel has been reluctant to be the head of the Landesmuseum because Seipel there is a competent and qualified force – and I do not let you talk about it! – has already proven its management capabilities. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] These skills have made Dr. Seipel one of the most important and internationally known museums in Europe! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I'm just referring to this: As a scientific curator, as an economic director, Dr. Seipel has managed his management capabilities perfectly with these seven houses and a difficult distribution. All its references are proposed by the board of trustees, approved by the ministry, references that are certainly justified in comparison with other managers' salaries and in international comparison – look at this! – are absolutely not overlaid. However, they publicly pour out Director Seibel, discrediting him – without even having had a chance to be localised! Because of a hoped-for short-term party political advantage, they organise a true court of squabbling and without hesitation, they throw out fundamental principles of justice, yes, the rule of law overboard! And I'm concerned about that! That is why it is obvious that we are vehemently opposed to this proposal!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10927	Next, Mrs Mag. Muttons. She too speaks for five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10945	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ms. Wolfmayr, it is unfortunately a fact that the “Saliera” has been stolen, and it is also a fact that the Art History Museum with its director Wilfried Seiel has provided a number of negative headlines in recent weeks. The criticism we have expressed about this is not, as Director Seizel has assumed, about the settlement of political bills. I can tell you: As a cultural speaker, it would be much better if the Museum of Art and History had caused such a sensation by its work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The theft of the “Saliera”, which has shown great security failures in the Art History Museum, is still not clear, but now, ladies and gentlemen, the police investigation report is in place – and this seems to confirm our suspicions that there has been serious security failures in the Art History Museum. In short, I repeat the “inner journey” of the colleague Glavischnig: Access to the building structure on the facade of the museum was blocked only with a board door. The exterior windows, as well as the case in which the “Saliera” was exhibited, were only made of simple glass and were not alarm protected. It has already been said: The video system was not on, because it was dark in the room – and you would not have seen anything! It's like in a fun movie or a comic film. [[Abg. Murauer: “Lustfilm”?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: What is a “lust film”?]] It was dark, and one could not have filmed the robbery of the “Saliera” anyway! Obviously, there were a lot of false alarms in art history that were not particularly responded to. Finally, it was also known that a year before this theft, the head of security of the Kunsthistorisches Museum demanded improved security, but no hearing was found. To these obvious security failures – which our group has repeatedly criticized – has not yet been responded by the competent minister. There is still no real evaluation of the monitoring system of this Federal Museum. And, ladies and gentlemen, what is particularly and completely incomprehensible to me is why we need an evaluation of this over a year, why it takes one year – and why it has not long been provided for minimum standards. It is not at all understandable why no consequences are drawn from the robbery of the “Saliera ” why there is no political responsibility for it! There are therefore a number of outstanding points – and this has been confirmed by the President of the Court of Auditors. The investigation results of the police show how legitimate our doubts are. However, what media reports also show is that there are obvious discrepancies between the now known police investigation results and the answers to our requests that we have made. – And this is a point that should be discussed in an investigation committee. In addition to the accusations relating to the robbery of the “Saliera”, there are, as you know, other accusations relating to the Art History Museum and its director. For example, this is about the purchase of the museum of tombs and about their sale to the private man Seipel. The director Seipel is said to have bought a car from the private man Seipel. It also criticises the salary of the Director, as well as the representation costs, which are very high. So the accusations that are raised here are very serious, but what the bad thing is: How does the minister react? – She doesn’t respond at all; she’s silent! She obviously learned well from the Federal Chancellor! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Neugebauer.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: He's a good teacher! Many people could learn something from you!]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we support this Green request to set up an investigation committee. I mean, there's a whole series of questions to be resolved. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11044	Next, Mrs Rossmann speaks. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11063	Mr President. High house! In all criticism of the business behaviour of the KHM General Director Seipel and all obvious security failures, one has to say: Today – and we must already be aware of this – we are only discussing a non-public raw report. [[Abg. Oellinger: We are discussing the investigation committee, not the raw report!]] That is why we clearly say that we should be so fair and wait for the final report, and then we can discuss whether there should be an investigation committee or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11100	The last speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11119	Mr President, you were really right when you had pity for the cultural speaker of the ÖVP because she had only 5 minutes of speaking time at her disposal, because it is really difficult to "wash out" Mr KHM Director-General Seiel in five minutes. It's just impossible! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I have not seen the Court of Auditors' report because it is, as has been correctly established, a raw report, and in a raw report, it is generally not possible to get it before it is published. Unfortunately, this raw report by the Court of Auditors contains things and allegations already raised by the Green Group, Mr Klubobmann Molterer, in 2002. [[Abg. May. Molterer: You didn't see!]] In this context, there have been 17 parliamentary questions to the Federal Minister, where we have tried to clarify these allegations by means of questions. There has been, I say, the most in need of answers, in the way in which the cultural spokesperson of the ÖVP did so earlier in her five-minute clean-washing attempt. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't know, isn't it embarrassing for you from the government if the private man Seizel is doing business with Director-General Seizel in his own house? – This has nothing to do with the Court’s raw report, but with general criticism, where it has always been said that it is a lack – admittedly a legal one, but I do not wash my hands in innocence, because we Greens have not agreed to these legal provisions – that it has not come to the appointment of two managing directors of the major museums, namely those who understand something of money – which, quite clearly, does not seem to be the case with Mr Seipel when it comes to him as Director-General. In this respect, I am already very excited about the final report of the Court of Auditors. As the private man Seipel does, I dare not judge this, I leave it entirely to your imagination. What Mr President-in-Office Seipel can do very well is to “dance on many Kirtags”. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Managing a museum!]] There you can say: He is the classic type of a multifunctionalist, because how different it would be to explain that at the same time he can be Director General of three museums, namely the Art History Museum – so to speak, a unique world in which we can be more than proud – from the Museum of Art and the Theatre Museum. Actually, these jobs are for three people, but please, he's a multi, maybe also a multitalent, at least a multifunctional one. In addition, Seipel is also the ORF Foundation Council, and then he is also a university council. He happens to be a university council, at the Academy of Fine Arts, where there is the rumor that Mr. General Seiel, because he doesn't seem to be fully used up, also wants to bring the Academy's painting gallery among his – I say quite politely – figures; he obviously still has free capacities. I would like to point out this connection between his appointment to the University Council and this rumor. I can't confirm it, I'll put it to the discussion. I can't even ask Mrs. Minister because she's not here. But we need such a committee of inquiry not only to examine the responsibility, regularity in the conduct and business of Mr Seipel, but also to question what Mrs Bundesminister Gehrer knows for years in order to examine why she has not acted, although at the latest she has gained knowledge of these accusations through the parliamentary questions of the Greens. This has nothing to do with this whole thing. If it weren't so sad, you'd say: This robbery of the “Saliera” is a comedian-adl story. Only: Suddenly, the “Saliera ” is gone! This story is funny, but, so to speak, an essential cultural property has been lost to all of us, because it belongs to all of us and not to the Director-General Seizel alone. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: That's not funny!]] But the Minister is silent, not to mention the results of the investigations which the safety authorities have been supporting. You can read everyone in this room. In various media you can read about what has been published about it. If you think that's not enough substance for an investigation committee, then really read too little crime!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11203	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request made by Mr Dr Glawischnig, colleagues, to set up an investigation committee. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to show this by means of a sign. – The application does not find the majority and is therefore rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11241	I am still announcing that in today's session, the self-employed were brought in applications 414/A to 418/A. Question No 1890/J, by 1899/J, has also been received. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for tomorrow, Thursday, 17. June 2004, 9 a.m. The agenda has already been distributed. The sitting will begin at Question Time. This meeting is closed.
