ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e2974	The meeting was opened. I ask the ladies and gentlemen to take a seat and welcome everyone very warmly. The Official Protocols of 48 and 49. Meeting of 10. February 2004 has remained undisputed and undisputed in the Parliamentary Directorate. As prevented, MEPs are reported Mandak, Gradwelt, Dr Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Mag. Scheucher-Pichler and Reheis. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e3008	For today's meeting, the Federal Chancellor's Office on the resolution of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government has issued the following communication: Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology Hubert Gorbachwird by Federal Minister for Social Security, Generations and Consumer Protection Mag. Herbert Main Representative. Before we come to the current hour, I ask the ladies and gentlemen for their attention. After the last television broadcast of a special meeting, immediately after the speech of the Minister's Head, who was disturbed by noise scenes, a flood of protest letters was received in Parliament, the office was called, and the debate culture in this House was criticised in some way by numerous fellow citizens. I have passed on many of these letters to send some to all the Members of Parliament, because we must take our criticism seriously with the many listeners we have. We have therefore spoken twice at the Presidential Conference in detail about the culture of intermediate calls and also about the culture of attention in this House. The listeners expect discussion from us, but a discussion that can also be followed. The speakers are disturbed by intervening calls, by ongoing calls of call, but also by the noise in plenary during the debates is absolutely disturbing. In the presidential conference, we agreed with the club members that there will be no intermediate calls in the future. I'm going to invite speakers to take their place. If they fail to comply with this request, I will give an order for failure to comply with the President's orders. In addition, I will continue to disturb Members, who – from any bank, including the first bank – are constantly interrupting the speaker with calls, on that point of view. Let us point out that there is a right of call, belonging to the parliamentary culture, but not to a debate of the speaker, so that the speaker or the speaker can no longer be heard. If the level of noise rises above the normal and tolerable level, I will ask for attention and, if this is not taken into account, interrupt the meeting and hold a stand-alone address here at the Bureau, because I believe that, above all, the club members can help us to have a proper discussion in this House. Current hour We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “Family – Swivelboard of Generations” First of all, Mrs Rossmann has spoken. Your speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e3074	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! “Families – the hub of generations” is the theme that we have chosen quite consciously, because in the face of a increasingly globalized world, a brutal society of services, the elbow methods – each of you knows them from kindergarten to study, to work life – in the face of an ever-increasing displacement competition in the working world, we are concerned with giving the family the place and importance that it deserves. In the future, family should offer security, nest heat and trust, not only for children and parents, but for all generations. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Still, some left-wing world improvers – not only in left-wing parties, as you can see from the example of the Styrian ÖVP – try to make it clear to us again and again that family is supposed to be an obsolete model, that children are best from seven o'clock in the morning to eight o'clock in the evening in a full-day school and are thus only educated by the state, and that also in the folk school. After birth, they should be brought to a baby's nap quickly. And seniors should be provided in a nursing home as quickly as possible. I say quite clearly: This is not our freedom policy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] These are not our liberal ideas. We know that there is no alternative to the family community, that no society without a family does not realize that child happiness is possible, that there can be no foundation for a successful development without the family's community experience. The base was laid in the family. Think back to the great family in which the social structure was still in order, in which the grandparents could still play with the grandchildren and great-grandparents. In order to continue this course in modern society, we have set ourselves the goal of anchoring the freedom of choice of parents between work and children. This is how our head of state – I deliberately mention the year 1999, the Carinthian country elections in 1999 – presented the children's check at that time. Everyone remembers the posters with the baby post about which much was discussed. At that time a milestone in social policy was set, a milestone in family policy. And even then – I remember – the automatic reflection of red and black came: not financeable, that's an uncovered check, that's not the truth. I also remember that when the head of state wanted to implement this child check in the government, Red and Black tried everything to prevent it. Whoever says he's the inventor of the children's check, I can only say to him: The sole inventor of the children's check was the head of the state of Carinthia, who then implemented it with the help of the population. By means of a signature action, red and black were then moved to give him the consent. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The logical continuation of this children's check has once again been assumed by Carinthia. The Kärntner Landeshuptmann recently presented the birth premium of 800 € as a life start-up fee. This is dignified, even for the young families, so that the many acquisitions to be made and the child feel security from the very beginning, after the birth of a child. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But in order to enable the older generation to get old at home within the family – now I come back to our Carinthian head of state again – Jörg Haider recently raised the care check, namely the Carinthian care check from baptism. [[The speaker put on the speaker’s desk, which reads: “Kärntner Pflegungscheck Euro 1 000” on the speaker’s desk.]] There are pilot projects here, as was the case with children's money at the time. Yesterday I had the opportunity to convince myself of one of these pilot projects, namely at the Social Representative and Mayor of Steindorf on Lake Ossiacher, Marialuise Mittermüller, who manages this pilot project, and I can tell you it's great. What's behind that? How does this care check work? What benefits do you get for this? – These are legitimate questions, which are also raised by the people who are directly in favour of using this care check. I'm telling you, it's very easy: Every municipality – many mayors know that among you – has a construction yard. At this farm you can also borrow equipment for garden design, but also snow-space equipment. What are we doing? – We have a pool in this construction yard, where there are not only snow room equipment, but also equipment for the care of the elderly, namely wheelchairs, sick beds, as well as patient lifts and bath lifts. These devices can be provided free of charge to the citizens of Steindorf to carry out the care at home. The result is that 70 percent care at home. This is an exemplary free social policy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] With the check worth € 1,000, family members can now use even more, namely once a week, a home care or a care aid, and once a year – and that is something that has often been done to us and should only be all too natural – a two-week care stay, a holiday. During this time, the caregivers can be provided in a nursing home so that the relatives can take a rest and recover. It is also remembered that the care check – which is also important – can be used for professional training and a care emergency call. Our Kärntner head of state has already made the legal adjustments for the caring family members, because the question has been very often raised: How am I legally insured when I care for my grandparents, my parents at home? Therefore, there is already a complete social security scheme, i.e. a health, accident and pension insurance scheme for the caregivers. I say again: This is living social policy, which will also enable old people to get home in dignity. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Another milestone is our Kärntner Landeshuptmann with the Mütterpension. [[Abg. Steibl: Here you go!]] The mother's pension should benefit all those who do not have a pension until now – there are still many women who have cared for children and have no pension at all – or only have a very low pension of less than €300 per month. That is, I believe, the difference between us and other political competitors: We are not only talking about the social state, but we are also closing the gaps of the social state where gaps can be concluded. The Federation sometimes has gaps to show, and there the country jumps in. The same has now been done – and we will take the relevant decision today – in the reimbursement of the pension difference. The head of state of Carinthia also acted quickly and unbureaucratically. It was not alms, as it was presented by the Social Democracy side. There were no alms, it was traded quickly and unbureaucratically, and thousands of Carinthian pensioners could be paid the difference. This money includes the difference between 13 and 14. Pension payment people already have in the wallet and can use it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We liberals are not only talking about the immeasurable importance of the family, we are acting accordingly – and this is different from us. I am sure that the Carinthian way with the care check will be worth €1,000, with the mother's pension and with the birth premium of €800 the victory march will also take place throughout Austria. I am sure that we will implement this because once again the Carinthian way shows what social policy is!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e3162	Mrs Haubner referred to an introductory opinion. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e3180	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the plenary! If today’s present hour deals with the issue of “family – hub of generations”, then it can be said that the word “current” really is at the heart of the matter. Family is the most up-to-date value for people. The importance of the families is undisputed leader on the personal and individual scale of values, including young people, also among young people. For most Austrians, the family is the most important area of life, leading before work, before friends and leisure time. Ladies and gentlemen! It is significant that in times of rapid progress and social change, the importance of the so-called small living worlds increases. When the social climate of a globalized world becomes colder, warmth and security are needed in the private relationship world. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] More Responsible Task Policy is therefore to look for ways that take into account the real needs of people and provide support for a family- and child-friendly society. Ladies and gentlemen! Investment in the families, investment in a fair relationship between the generations and the sexes are an investment in the future. The change in the family policy system, away from the burden-balance to the performance balance, has been successfully implemented with the implementation of the government programmes 2000 and 2003. The families were financially strengthened in their tasks. We abolished the two-mother-class society with the child money because it does not matter whether a mother is a student, a farmer, a minor employee or an employee. We have not issued a professional ban on child benefits – up to now it has been around 150,000 female workers – with a higher limit of self-employed persons, because parents, mothers and fathers, know best what their children and families need. We have been paying the multiple child money since this year, because twins and drillings not only bring more joy, but also mean a more financial effort. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We have introduced home travel aid for apprentices for the first time and have reintroduced the student home trip you abolished from the opposition. We have increased the family allowance, the multi-child allowance and the family allowance for disabled children. However, we have also secured family benefits under social law. Household management, childcare and care of close relatives are still a matter of women. That is why we have approached family and educational work in the labour force, so that not later family times tear holes into the pension biography, but – on the contrary! – reason for your own pension. Ladies and gentlemen! Families with children secure the generation contract, so an improvement of opportunities for women in particular is a political must. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The pensionable months for children have been increased from 18 to 24 months. A higher rate of replacement time for children's education will be assessed. Three years per child are removed from the extended calculation period. Therefore, the best working hours for mothers are still very long. We pay compensation contributions to children's money and family hospice because children's education must not be a reason for the second pension column. Getting old at home is the vast desire of people. This is also reflected in the fact that 80 percent of the caregivers are cared for in the families. This is something that we also need to pay special attention to. In addition to the pilot project that my previous speaker Mares Rossmann has already presented in the form of the care check, we also provide a favourable insurance for the pension – especially for women who do this valuable work. In addition to the financial and social assessments of family work, the compatibility of family and profession is therefore also a central field of action of Austrian family policy. With the audit “Family & Profession”, for example, we promote a business-internal process in which a family-conscious personnel policy is implemented. The OECD, in particular, expressly emphasizes this Austrian compatibility instrument as an example and encourages its spread and imitation. With the Austrian Childcare Summit, we take a common path with the countries and communities, even if competence lies with the countries, a way for external childcare to be sustainable and flexible for today's parents. With parental leave, we create new aspects and possibilities of working for mothers and fathers with care obligations. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! After I spoke at the beginning of the discussion that we have made the change from burden-to-performance adjustment in the family support system, I would also like to point out that we are preventing poverty in particular with our family benefits. To have children must not become a risk of poverty! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In particular, with the family tax measures that are preferable to this year, such as the increase in the amount of deposits for children's rich families, we permanently relieve around 900 000 single-earner and single-parent families. [[Call the Greens: Only educators!]] The evaluation of child benefit has already made it clear after a year and a half that families with low family incomes are benefiting from the childcare allowance. For these families, the benefit is a very relevant contribution to the security of life. A special challenge for families is the safety of old age. For those who have already contributed to generation solidarity in active working life, it is an absolute must to be able to grow old in dignity and self-determination. Therefore, in addition to the 2003 pension measures, no way will pass the harmonisation of pension systems. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Equal conditions and equal benefits for all, so that the problems are not transferred to the next generations! Family is a place of security that children and young people need for their positive development. However, we must not be deceived by the fact that many marriages are divorced and that children and young people also experience negative experiences in terms of the fragility of partnerships and relationships, as well as physical and psychological violence. [[Abg. Sburny: But there are in so-called intact families too!]] Therefore, prevention through targeted information, through targeted support, such as in the form of parenting and competent family advice, is another major concern of our department. Ladies and gentlemen! The European comparison ensures that we are on the right path with the model of direct family support, with the social security of family benefits, with the tax advantages for multi-child families and the compatibility measures. This government also expresses the social appreciation and the great importance of the families as a hub of generations – in the sense of a policy that does not create conflicts between generations, but builds bridges and ensures the principle of freedom of choice for the personal designs of life as possible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e3275	I thank the Secretary of State. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other speakers must not exceed 5 minutes in the current hour. First speaker is Mrs Steibl. – You are speaking, Mrs Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e3299	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to make a few comments on Mr Rossmann's comments: Unfortunately, the children's check has not seen the light of the world. It has become the childcare allowance, and together we have introduced it under Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] I would like to point out that such statements are justified in the election campaign, but Elisabeth Scheucher, the leader candidate of the ÖVP, shows what is a living social policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I have already mentioned that under Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel there has been a great deal of success in this government. We have undertaken to become the most family- and child-friendly country in the world and a country of living solidarity between generations. Heuer is the tenth year after the International Year of the Family and the fourth year after the family's desire. They know that we have introduced a stately number of material family benefits and that the family popular desire has been fully implemented. Mrs Haubner has already mentioned some of the benefits that were implemented alone from 1999 to 2004, and I would like to mention here again the childcare allowance for all, which is so well assumed that the opposition is not entirely marginal, or the family hospice or care allowance from birth, or also the common care after divorce, or the increase of family support, or the increase of the child care allowance for multiple births and much more. I could list a whole series of achievements here, but do not want to, because it is also good to see what the future brings, what our priorities are. Ladies and gentlemen! Now on three key tasks in the future family policy of the ÖVP, this government. The first priority is the compatibility of work and family. Second focus is more partnering and parenting. And the third priority is a child-friendly or child-friendly society. The most important step in reconciling work and family life is, of course, the future possible parent age with a legal claim up to the seventh year of the child's life. Another main focus is on promoting the company's budget. Important in this context is the service check, already announced by Federal Minister Bartenstein. I would just like to remind you at this point: As early as 1997, ÖVP representatives, such as Gertrude Brinek and Rosemarie Bauer, today's Volksanwäldein, and my ability to make a request in Parliament to introduce this service check, but unfortunately the then socialist Federal Minister Hostasch rejected this. Go to the next point. – Children need the best care and promotion. With Federal Minister Liesl Gehrer we will extend the afternoon care of the students until 2006. There will be more than 10,000 adequate, child-friendly and parental-friendly places. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Fatherhood participation in child rearing and care is also given great importance. [[Contradict with the Greens.]] [[Abg. Sburny: 0.5 to 1.2 percent!]] Since 1997 the father's care has tripled and doubled since child care, and this is very likely to have something to do with the commitment limit, the increase and also the reference period. In summary, I can say that with this government, with Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel, with State Secretary Haubner and with Federal Minister Head, we can be proud of this social policy, of our family policy. And we are also proud of our location policy, because social is what creates work!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e3376	Next, Mrs Mag. Kuntzl to the speaker's desk. Speaking time: 5 minutes. – You are speaking, Mrs Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e3394	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! I think it is time to end this family-political fairy-tale hour after the debates during the last half hour. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] We should also afford to look at reality a little more in this circle. [[Abg. May. Molterer: We will see that at the next item on the agenda!]] The first “mortal tales”, which we heard, were the various Carinthian constituency soap bubbles, which were drawn to us in the entrance statement of colleague Rossmann. That almost sounded like your farewell speech, Mrs Rossmann! I think you should be elected first, and there's another way to go. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You'll be surprised!]] The Carinthias can best judge the various soap bubbles in recent years, according to the experience with their country captain – I am sure of this! – and the outcome of the election will be appropriate. The second “narration” relates to the picture of the healing family, which especially the previous speakers of the Freedom Party have drawn here. Col. Rossmann even spoke of the time when the family “was still in order. ” Ladies and gentlemen, this is the problem: What you feel as disorder is the reality of life of more and more people in this country! This is the reality of life of more and more people in this country – they want to live that way! [[Abg. Scheibner:... which you created!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: 30 years of SPÖ family policy!]] These people do not want to be prescribed by you, to what rigid image they are to return and in what rigid family forms they are supposed to live in. They will have to take note that we are living in an age of social change, where there is much change in the family as well; not the world around it changes – and everything must remain the same in the family. We must recognize to our families the diversity of family forms – which we certainly live here as well; we do not have to pretend – as if they are recognized as equivalent forms of family – whether they are single parents, whether this is the classic father-mother-child family, the patchwork family, whatever. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Otto Muehl, for example!]] We must recognise all these forms as equivalent, and the diversity of these different forms deserves our support, support from politics. And that's what you're ignoring! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] They completely ignore, for example, that now a quarter of the families – a quarter, and that's really much! – One-parent families are. A quarter! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But this is not the ideal condition!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: And you find that normal?]] You find that is not the ideal state; someone else might think that this is the ideal state. And no matter how he or she finds it, it is a life situation in which he or she deserves our support, Mr Scheibner. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Of course, it is highly significant that the topic of single-parents does not even occur in your government program. That's not a subject, because: What can't be that can't be – right, Mr Scheibner? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But this is not the way to make a sensible family policy that supports people. [[Abg. Scheibner: Ask the children what they think about it!]] We come to the third “tale of fairy tales. ” The third “tale” has your “great family-political achievements”, which you have performed in recent times. And this is the next collection of soap bubbles! That's incredible! [[Abg. May. Mainoni: What did the Socialists do for the single-parents? Nothing!]] Here you tell us, for example, that child money is the instrument against risk of poverty. The opposite is the case, read the studies! As rigid as the child money is at the moment, it leads women to the poverty trap because they leave for so long and because they no longer return to the profession. Do you know what the best way to fight child poverty is? [[Abg. May. Mainoni: The child education allowance!]] – State support is necessary and important and should be expanded, but the most efficient means is for women to work, to have their own incomes, that their family income is accordingly high. And that's why your next soap bubble! – Freedom of choice! [[Abg. Scheibner: Freedom of choice!]] Mr Scheibner, on the compatibility of work and family, I say to you: Their freedom of choice is, in fact, a force of decision. They say: Either you work – or you have a family. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] It would be important to set the appropriate framework conditions so that both are really possible – and you don't!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e3631	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e3649	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Kuntzl, if you're talking about fairy tales, I would recommend that you rather tell your children fairy tales at home. That would also contribute to family policy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you look at the list of speakers on this subject a little more closely today, you have to note that the liberals are actually the only party that sends two men to the speaker's desk for family policy. I believe that this too is a clear evidence and a clear indication that we have a family policy of man and woman, and we also live together in this policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] A small note was also allowed to me on the subject of child money, because it was discussed here whether this bowl or shark brought – or anyone else. I think it's important that the child's money, the child's check, has been implemented. Whoever has implemented it, who carried this vision outside and in which state this measure first came to bear, we all know that. In any case, it was not the Social Democrats. Thank you, Jörg! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My previous speakers have already said a lot of good things about child money, birth premium, about getting old at home. These are all things that are important, but for us the freedom of choice is a particularly important thing, namely freedom of choice. We want freedom of choice in kindergartens, we want freedom of choice in the afternoon care, and we also want freedom of choice in the care of the elderly. This principle is significant for the liberals. That was always our strength, we have always tried to implement it. I have to say at this point, even the opposition certainly has good ideas. There are also approaches that one should discuss, but I am against one, ladies and gentlemen: I guard against class struggle and against party polemics! I believe that this issue is too important. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Let's just take the example of old age care. We in Carinthia – I am from Carinthia and may say so – have at least achieved that we have also taken one step away from central retirement homes. We're building decentralized retirement homes. We are trying to build homes in the regions outside for the old people, because it is important because, I think, it is very important that the older generation is not necessarily taken from. It is very important that people can grow old where it is best made possible for them. Ideally, this is, of course, the homely house, the homely apartment. If this is not possible, then the second step is an old age home near its surroundings, where relatives can go every day where contact with the family remains and where at least some basics can be created. I can remember: I was at 100. Birthday of a Klagenfurt woman – together with the head of state – invited, and this woman told us a story. – I think it should be a minute to listen to this story. This woman is 100 years old, has always lived in an apartment, was very happy there, was also very mobile, very open, mentally unscrupulously good “doing”. Then she had a small accident, and the family thought it would be better for her to put her in a home. - Dear ladies and gentlemen! This woman has fallen. This woman has fallen mentally and physically – and that should give us all the thought. That, I believe, is a policy that we should prevent. We have made it possible to create the conditions with free policy, coalition policy, so that people can get old again at home. That woman was able to come back home. It is on the way of improvement, it is happy, and above all things: She's alive again! If you stand here as a relatively young speaker and talk about the older generation, you should also be aware of the responsibility towards these people and the tradition. [[Calls of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] This is an important area, and I believe in between, you can also talk about other issues, Mrs Glawischnig. This issue is not suitable for this. You don't appreciate the old people! That's bad, you shouldn't do that. I am convinced that you should appreciate the older generation. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] This topic, Mrs. Glavischnig, is just too important to make fun of it! The carnival is over. Today you can call again “Lei, Lei!” and you will reprove the President. It was last time embarrassing enough for this house that just from the Greens took the Lei-lei-Rufe so far, that the listeners had nothing more to do with it. I'll tell you one thing: I am already looking forward to seeing this woman in Klagenfurt next year with a liberal head of state at 101. It will be congratulated on the birthday.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e3763	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Glawischnig. 5 minutes speaking time. – Mrs Colleague, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e3782	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Mr. Scheucher, your level is not... [[Call out to the liberals: Shy! Shh!]] Mr Scheuch, Pardon, but in the meantime there is so little difference between black and blue that I am hard to do with the names. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens as well as with representatives of the SPÖ.]] What you've done before was a typical freedom strategy: to put something that no one has claimed, and to do so at a very, very low level. However, I do not want to be turned off today to say a few basic and important things on a subject that is also very important to us, Mr Scheuch. If you talk about family, you can put a few principles out of dispute. You didn't do that today. We have the following principles to do so, and I would like to express this openly once and for all. The principle of partnership should be one of the basic principles in a relationship. And if you want to go here now and simply return the care and many other services to the families, then ignore one of the most essential problems the families basically have: Families need social infrastructures. And because you just talked about Carinthia: Carinthia is at the end of the day, as far as this very social infrastructure is concerned! In such things as home help, eating on wheels, home care, visiting service is far behind Carinthia. I do not want to make a campaign here, but I would like to point out the facts. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] I would like to draw your attention to the facts.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e3823	Mrs Rossmann, you are disturbing the speaker through constant calls! President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e3839	The principle of partnership is thus one of the principles, and the principle of partnership also means partnership between men and women. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you are pleased that the extent of the father's care has tripled, from zero command anything on zero command, then I have to say that is sad and a witness of poverty. If we look into other countries, into the Scandinavian countries, where almost 40 percent of the fathers are able to take on child care work as well, I wonder what is going wrong here in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is not just a policy issue, but it is above all a policy task to create these conditions. Talk to the families and ask what the parents are doing at the moment! Look at the labour market for young people, look at youth unemployment! Look You're looking at the cuts in education! Look at the young people, the children in the public schools of cleaning from the ceiling on the head when under the year the teachers are retired when school hours are deleted when ski lessons are removed! It is really unfortunate that we have not lost a single word on these issues that are currently moving young people, young families, very much! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A second important principle – it is already a lot of courage to prescribe people how to live, whether they marry or not, whether they have children or not – is the principle of free decision. This is a principle that many young people want to live, and I think politics should accept that. You are with your ideas, namely that you want to simply graft people, an ideal idea that no longer corresponds to reality from my point of view, miles away from the reality of the people in Austria, and that is unfortunate! I would like to refer to the concrete measures you have praised today, where you have described in the most beautiful colors, which has not been done all that has been done. Let's remember. The ÖVP – the Federal Chancellor highly personal – has promised the right to part-time in the last election campaign. [[Abg. May. Molterer: It's coming!]] It is not realized until today, and with the form you want to realize it, you create a two-class society for families. People who are employed in businesses with less than 20 employees want to take this right from you. This is completely incomprehensible to me! And then talk about freedom of choice and the guaranteed possibility for parents to solve this problem of care! The second point is childcare, where you are talking about a situation in Austria, which is really a poverty witness in the international comparison. For years, yes, for decades, we have been discussing this issue, and nothing goes on, especially in the Federal Republic of Germany, which is dominated by ÖVP. I should just like to remind Mrs Scheucher, who is not here today, of something: The first Members of Parliament here in this House in 1919 had three demands: The first one was: Same pay for the same work! – That is still not realized! The second one was: Kitchen appliances, and the third was: childcare facilities. Think about it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e3896	Mrs Hellerer is now speaking. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e3915	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! The family is the basis for social protection of society. Today, this sentence is more important than ever, even though the life structures of people have changed in terms of performance-oriented society. It's about the place of security for our children. It is about the place where the generations live together, in responsibility for each other. If you have spoken about fairy tale policy today, Mrs Kuntzl, regarding the family policy of the ÖVP and the FPÖ, I can only tell you: Perhaps it's like a fairy tale to make such a policy, because you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, had 30 years to make family policy. You were responsible at the time – you did not do it, you did not manage to take such measures as this federal government is doing today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Because you have prevented it!]] It is a priority and important concern of this federal government to take family policy measures so that the young people, who are a clear yes to a partnership, say a partnership between families and children, who can also live in the future. It is an urgent, important concern to make family and profession compatible. The fact that young people recognize this as a life goal is also evident in a study by the Institute of Demography. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition parties! If one deals with the value discussion of the generation contract, one will already realize that it is not only a matter of making family policy that contributes to the promotion of young families, but that family policy also means that one must create an acceptance in society for the work of young people, fathers and mothers who care for the children, since here the most valuable work is done for our future – of course, and especially when mothers and fathers decide to stay with their child for the first years of life. They then have the possibility of freedom of choice, as they can actually have a foothold in the door to their professional activity. That's what we've done! At the time of the karenz money, there was something like a virtually professional ban. Now there is the possibility to earn child care benefits within a certain framework. Imagine this discussion, this debate on values, as she is now being held, as our colleague Mrs Mag. Elisabeth Scheucher also leads in Carinthia! It turns itself into a young person and explains the family policy and social policy that we consider particularly important to our families. Discuss really open once! They are always present with this “woman back to the stove!” and do not forget that you are setting different priorities. For you it is always the career, the personal career that you put in the foreground. For the Federal Government there is only one goal: the compatibility of family and profession. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We are not about how you always place it, to make a decision either – or, but about one another. It is, therefore, an important concern for this government to improve the conditions for families, and the childcare allowance is one of the political milestones that have been set here. In this context, I also mention the family hospice that could be implemented, the income strengthening of families in tax reform, the right to parental part-time, which is now under discussion, as well as the service check, which will also help to make our families work and family compatible. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The families provide services to secure our society in the future and have a claim to a dedicated family policy – the ÖVP and FPÖ are sure to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e3984	The next speaker is Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e4003	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! Family is not only a hub of generations, but is also a hub for discussion. And it will be a pleasure for me to bring you a little closer to what is being discussed in Austrian families, and to tell you how people really think about how to do family policy. I would like to remind you: The last family ministers were not SPÖ ministers, but ÖVP ministers. Ladies and gentlemen! In families, there is certainly a cross-generational discussion. Young people too are sitting at the family table, drawing their balance of policy you are making. Unfortunately, it is not always in the sense of young people what you do: We now had 7th. In March, in two federal states, it is possible that young people will be able to participate in the country elections earlier. You have prevented your vote from becoming possible with 16 in the two federal states of Carinthia and Salzburg. You probably fear the voices of the young people who may not be the way you want. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mr Steibl has taken stock. I can take stock of it, too. I have a very realistic, very shocking balance sheet. I think when the families sit at a table, the young people will ask themselves: What has the Federal Government done for me if I don't have a job? And there are thousands of young people who have no work, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, of the government parties! And the elderly people will also ask themselves at the family table: What has the Federal Government done for me if I have to take a real loss in my pension or if I am just before the pension, have to take 12 percent or more of the pension loss? Only a small example with a great negative effect, which is also discussed among the Austrians: This federal government has been a member of the German government since 4. ==References====External links==* Official website – It has helped nothing, it has been a lot of money, and it has not been for the benefit of those who needed it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The biggest Prasser, ladies and gentlemen, is called Grasser, because the Ministry of Finance has spent € 15 million on consulting since 2000. [[Abg. Scheibner: You are really poetic today!]] – It didn't help, he's in turbulence. Any other finance minister would have gone long ago, he would have done it with propriety. He won't do it, but it'll be a matter of time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: We have not heard many family policy demands yet!]] Mrs Haubner. She has been asked many family policy questions in the last "press hour", Mr Scheibner, but she has proved that she has not answered for an hour. One example: part-time work. The Secretary of State said in part-time work: However, part-time work carried out for child care or care had to be higher in the case of pensions. – They have made a pension reform, but none of it has been realized. In other words, even here it proves by statements that will not then be implemented that it makes a policy that it cannot enforce. But my last example today is a really important issue. It's about the topic of generations. It is about trying to make generations better together, but it can and must not be that for weeks and months, a young colleague of the ÖVP has been divising the interdependence and the playout of generations. Mrs Fuhrmann, what did you think of it when you said two days ago, you think this compensation payment, which we will then discuss immediately afterwards – it is a repair that you had to make quickly – is not necessary, because you could buy three sausages just around 10 €? Ladies and gentlemen! Three sausages cost just 3 € at the carnivores. And you know what else you get at €10? For two days “eating on wheels ” for older people who can no longer take care of themselves! That means two days of hunger, that's what you want! That's sad! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ, it is once again important if we are to say social democrats: Family policy, social policy, generation policy: Politics needs a conscience! – But I miss that with you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e4080	The next speaker is Mr Lichtenegger. 5 minutes speaking time. . You are at the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e4098	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Family – The heart of the generations. The family is also at the heart of the economy, and the family has also been at the heart of our tax reform. We haven't heard that yet. The tax relief for families in this year alone amounts to € 250 million. The single-earner discount amount of 364 € increases by 130 € at the first child, by 175 € at the second child. We have already seen in the tax reform that families are a priority and are at the centre of attention. The profit limit is increased from €4 400 to €6 000. This will take into account the families who have only one income and who need to care for their children. The single-earner family will have to pay less taxes this year by 10 percent, by 15 percent in 2005. The shuttle fee may be abolished elsewhere, with us it will be increased by 15 percent. Again on tax reform: A tax reform has never had such a heavy social component. Never was so much family policy packed in a tax reform! Once again on youth unemployment: Carinthia has a pioneering role here: Youth unemployment has been dramatically reduced, and we will still be able to find one for everyone who is looking for an apprenticeship in Carinthia! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] One more word for the much-needed child's money. Children's money – we don't need to discuss this – has been taken from Carinthia. Carinthia is also the only federal country in which children's money can also be obtained as a single parent for a full period of three years – not so at the federal level. Pension benefits from tax reform for women and family: For the first time, children's education periods are counted for 24 months. The calculation period for families and women is also reduced by three years. The pension reform is a major point of generation policy, family policy, for us a heartpiece – you have always de-qualified as a robbing of pensions. Your contribution to this family policy may have been that you brought the families to the street to strike and demonstrate. You could have come and said: Dear government parties, we would have the following proposal for pension reform! - You didn't do that! [[Abg. You don't have one!]] [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Nothing came!]] In retrospect, you come with any 0.8-percent rules or anything else. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] That's our understanding and that's my understanding after a year in the National Council: that you sit down and say what you want. That's democracy. But no, you don't. Instead, call the families: Come on the street, strike and demonstrate!, and talk all bad. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The final effect of this is that you are insecure the people, the families, the employees, the pensioners, the young people. We can now see this from the latest information on where the money is going: on the savings books. On account of this fear, no one trusts anything anymore, because you simply insure people and here I think you were looking at the untruth. [[Abg. Sburny:... Your law! Not "angstmache"!]] This is your only way to make politics! – This is not my political understanding, where everyone tries to contribute a good and positive part to it. I know you've already put your hands together, Mr Oellinger, but that's the way it is. We're working for the future! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would also like to say the following as to the statement that 10 € corresponds to three sausages: If we go shopping, then 10 € means: three kilos of bread, two litres of milk, one kilo of flour, one kilo of rice, two kilograms of pasta and also drinks. That's what we do with 10 €! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e4195	The last speaker to speak is Mrs Mag. Weinzinger. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e4213	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! After these very ‘deep’ remarks on family policy, it is almost difficult for me to join. I can therefore begin with a self-defined objective of your group, the EIA. Mrs. Hellerer, I think it was that meant that the goal of family policy was to achieve compatibility – I suppose you meant family and profession. I can only say: This goal has been missed smoothly, which is to say, 52 percent of the population, for women. A compatibility of work and family is currently largely given much more for men in Austria, if one goes to define “family” to have a family somehow. If one defines “family” in such a way that it means being able to live family life, that does not apply to men. What you are doing is a family policy in which you are preventing men from family life and preventing women from working! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Whatever you would have to think about – and that is what I would like to say in the statements by Mrs Haubner, the Secretary of State, who has celebrated the direct family benefits in Austria, is that even in international comparison, these have not actually led to high direct family benefits or led to more children coming to the world and the viability of family in Austria. On the contrary: Unfortunately, in international comparison, we must note that in other countries the birth rate and satisfaction with the compatibility of work and family is significantly higher than in Austria and that we therefore have a clear deficit that there is a clear need for recovery. But what happens to the proposals that come from your side is that we are obviously on our way from the family and from social policy to the “check society”: There is a child care check, a care check, a birth premium, a service check. If there are some suggestions I can interpret, then we may soon have a marriage check and I don't know what else. The fact is: What's behind it is quite clear: The government stems from its responsibility to ensure social benefits and a social care network, and it is entrusted to families and, above all, to women. – That’s not how it can be done! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Instead, we from the Greens advocate a genuine partnership in the forms of life that people choose, and for the independence of the people – an independence I miss very much with you! Where, then, is your commitment clear and where are the clear measures to ensure that old people can independently determine how they want to live and then implement it? – You defend yourself with your hands and feet, for example, against caring forms of housing for old people and either transfer them to free work in the family, where, in some cases, qualified care is not sufficiently possible, or move them to the nursing home – and then the two weeks of care home vacations you provide in your model are of little use. Where is the independence you grant young people if you can't even guarantee them a fundamental right to your own income and work? At this point maybe a small note in the direction of my predecessor: I have heard quite clearly that, at least in Carinthia, you want to promise a apprenticeship only to every male youth, not to the female youth. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: No,...! Such a...!]] [[Abg. May. Mainoni:... such concerns!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: This is really the main concern of the Greens!]] I also think it is a bit unfortunate that the Secretary of State does not even know that the single-parents are primarily single-parents, and that this does not even occur in the language. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Interference of the Federal Minister of State, Mag. Chief.]] – It does not help, either, if intermediate calls come from the government bank back there as sturgeons. What I demand is that you pursue a family policy that makes it possible for fathers and mothers alike to live family life, and also makes it possible to formulate working life for yourself as it corresponds to them – that is, a whole lot, because you are currently, as has been said, running an active father-moving policy in the company's household, which you care about women. I believe that, above all, we have to put in place a lot of measures that are based on an extended family concept. The goal must be that people can live in the way they decide, and not how government policy wants them to decide for themselves how to live, and that they can implement this form of life that they choose – in which generations they live together with how many people they live together, whether men and women live together or not – as well as existentially secured and equipped with the same social rights.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e4316	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e4334	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e4462	Mr Van der Bellen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a point of order that the written question put before us on the agenda be dealt with in an urgent manner by Dr Van der Bellen, ladies and gentlemen, to the Federal Minister for Finance on grounds of withdrawal. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed at 3 p.m. Request for a brief debate on the response 1208/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e4481	I would also like to say that the request made pursuant to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure is a short debate on the reply 1208/AB of Question No 1191/J by honourable Members Mag. Weinzinger, colleagues and colleagues on animal husbandry regulation for farmed animals in the Federal Animal Protection Act by the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management. Since this meeting called for urgent debate on a written question, the brief debate will follow. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e4502	It is proposed that the debates on points 1 and 2, 3 and 4, 6 to 10 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, are objections raised? - That's not the case. That is why we are doing so. We are now going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e4528	The President-in-Office of the Council agreed on the duration and format of the agenda's debates. Accordingly, a day block time of eight ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: ÖVP and SPÖ each 140 minutes, Free 96 minutes, Green 104 minutes. In addition, the following speaking time agreement for the time of television transmission between 11.10 and 1 p.m. for the debate on the Social Insurance Amendment Act 2004 was also reached: First of all, one speech per group with 10 minutes each, then a member of the government with 10 minutes each, then one word per group with 5 minutes each, another a member of the government with 10 minutes, and finally one word per group with 5 minutes each. In the last round, the President-in-Office will have the responsibility to ensure that all speak evenly. He may have to shorten the speaking time after consultation with the clubmen, but all four political groups should speak to the same extent. There is also agreement that actual corrections, limited to a single one, will be called only after 1 p.m. – and logically before 2 p.m. – are called. As the President-in-Office of the Council also agreed that the proposals of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs will be negotiated by 2 p.m. and the speaking time will be distributed after the ‘Vienna hour’, subject to precise compliance with the agreed speaking time following the withdrawal of the television speaking time for the political groups, there will be close to the following speaking times until the end of the debate on Agenda items 1 and 2: ÖVP and SPÖ per 21 minutes, FPÖ 8 minutes and Green 10 minutes. The House decides on this allocation of speaking time. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this multi-layered proposal to give a sign. – That is unanimously decided. We shall therefore proceed in this way. 1. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 335/A by Mr Herbert Scheibner, Mr Mag. Wilhelm Molterer, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law that amends the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act and the Farm Social Insurance Act (Social Insurance Amendment Act 2004 – SVÄG 2004) (401 d.B.) 2. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 333/A by Dr Alfred Gusenbauer, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Security Act and the Farmers' Social Insurance Act (1. Social security amendment law 2004 – 1. SVÄG 2004) (402 e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e4605	We now come to points 1 and 2 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. – Mr Eder! It's not usual to call here! Thank you. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: I think, even forbidden!]] There was no oral reporting. Mr Gusenbauer was the first to speak. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e4633	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! One month it took us from the absolute denial of the German Government's pension reductions to today's day when we meet here in the House to decide on a partial reparation of the pension reductions. In this context, one should make revision happen, which has happened: The Federal Chancellor said a few weeks ago that the current debate on pension reductions is not based on facts but solely on a false look. – The message to all pensioners is therefore: Take your pension note to hand, see if you have net more or less – and if you have less, then that's just an optical deception, it's not based on facts! – This is the report the Federal Chancellor wanted to give to the Austrian pensioners on the subject of pension cuts. After the cuts were no longer to be concealed, he took the next action and meant: No, that was all deliberately planned and purposely – deliberately planned and purposely! – because the pensioners have such high health costs, therefore unless it is just right and cheap that they pay more for health insurance and therefore receive net less pension. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! What has happened in the last few days and weeks of outrage among pensioners was truly justified. If there is a federal government that is so far removed from the real living conditions of a large part of the Austrian population, then it is truly scandalous, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] As far as seclusion is concerned, Mrs Fuhrmann, from the ÖVP, has shot the bird absolutely. I don't know where she is today. Maybe she's shopping again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] – She meant: 10 € discount – why do people get upset? That's why she gets a maximum of three sausages from Billa! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This is said by a Member of Parliament with a gross income of € 7,200 to the Austrian pensioners, who sometimes have less than € 700 a month! [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Mainoni and Neudeck]] Ladies and gentlemen, where live You even make comparisons like that? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Further calls to the liberals as well as to the Abg. Grandruck.]] All these remarks clearly show that you have absolutely nothing to do with the reality of life of the Austrian population, especially those of pensioners, otherwise you could not find such comparisons. In this context, I would like to say something to you: It's not the first time the pensions are reduced. [[Abg. May. Mainoni:... SPÖ government!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Yeah, it's true: What do you think about the average increase in pensions in Austria in the 1980s? – At an average of 4 per cent per year! In the 1990s, on average, by 2.6%! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Where was inflation?]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Since the start of the Black-Blue government, pensions have been grossly increased by 0.8 percent on average. In other words, since 2000, there has been no longer a balance for the rate of inflation for pensioners. Therefore, the reduction in pensions is not the first, but the consistent continuation of the pension reduction policy of this black and blue government. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: That's just not true!]] [[Abg. May. Mainoni: That's not true!]] We have to show this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] All of this takes place against the background of hollow announcements by the Federal Chancellor and by the Federal Government, in which it is always called: There is no intervention in existing pensions! There will be a balance for pensioners! And, of course, the two million pensioners are not affected by all these measures! – The truth is: Since the ruling of Black and Blue, the pensions in Austria have been consistently shortened! This is the wrong way, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Mainoni: That's just not true!]] In this context, it is always said that there is nothing to do about these cuts simply to ensure that the pension system remains sustainable. – Ladies and gentlemen! In other things, you're not that smart! When it comes to the consulting or advertising costs of the Federal Government, one has easy 1 billion schilling available to promote this bad government policy in the public. So with yourself you are generous! You are only the pensioners. This is the wrong set of priorities for Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[New condolences with the SPÖ and with representatives of the Greens.]] The path of these pension cuts and the way you deal with them is typical! We have experienced this in recent years, for example in the case of accident pension taxation. First, it was said: Everything's not a problem! Accident pensioners are supposed to pay full taxes! – Only after there was the uprising, the objections of social democracy to the Constitutional Court and a judgment, was there a retreat. The same happened with the ambulance charges: First they were praised as the great health reform. – According to the concerns of the population, after legal objections, the withdrawal came back. And now at the pensions! First phase: Defiance – that is, “there are no pension reductions. ” Secondly, The attempt to get rid of this, like Mrs. Fuhrmann, and to say: Don't get upset! 10 € are only three sausages! – And then the third phase where you say: Well, we're going to get rid of the hardness now. The “heards ” are being “fed off ”! – Your suspension of the hardenings looks so that hundreds of thousands of pensioners will have a real pension reduction even after today’s decision in the National Council, thus laying the basis for further pension reductions in the coming years. – This, ladies and gentlemen, is not an honest deal with the pensioners in our country! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But the worst thing in this whole debate is not the well-known unsocial attitude of the Federal Government and, above all, the members of the ÖVP, but the worst thing that happened in Carinthia, where the head of state stood and said who was willing to come to the country house as a beggar and say: Please, Mr Landeshaupt, give me back what the Federal Chancellor has taken away from me!, he is willing to compensate for this difference. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We reject this kind of bitter society! This is with a fair society of 21st century. By the century absolutely nothing to do! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] On the question of concepts it is clear that: For a year, the concept of social democracy on pension insurance and pension harmonization has been on the table. [[Abg. Wheeler: In the drawer!]] – No, it was presented and requested here in the House and is not in the drawer, Mr Cot. If you are powerful for reading, you can read it for months. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But the interesting thing is the following: Last year, the Federal Chancellor meant that the first phase included the pension reductions for the ASVG and the pension reductions for future generations, i.e. the 35- to 40-year-olds today; the next step will be harmonisation by the end of 2003. Ladies and gentlemen! Two months have passed since this deadline, but there is still no proposal from the government as to the harmonisation of pensions, because you hide pension justice like the devil the holy water. [[Abg. Dr. Bleckmann: There is nothing from the social partners either!]] I'll tell you: Take our concept! That is the fairer concept, and it has been a year. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Her dealings with the pensioners is unresponsible, he is emotional, he is heartless, and without a fair view of the living conditions of the older generations in our country. [[Abg. Grandruck: Goodbye!]] Quit this type of increase of the older generation! She didn't deserve it!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e4866	The next speaker is Mrs Turković-Wendl. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e4884	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear visitors here at the gallery! And I also say in this case: dear seniors! Mr. Dr. Gusenbauer! Young people are overwhelmed – so I would call some action that you do when you're 20 years old and a little bit over it. One cannot really judge and estimate the value of a sausage cream, another has kissed Soviet soil in the overwhelming, which may no longer necessarily be in it now. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer) Kiss the Moscow soil!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] – An old story, but that’s it! Youth! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm a senior, and I'm very happy to do this. It is something that has given me new impulses, new ideas and a whole new sense of life in my life. I have been dealing with this issue of aging for 11 years now, the life of the elderly, the pensioners, the pensioners, have discussed with the people, I have argued with them, I have celebrated with them, I have lived with them – I would say – on a course – or also I have felt with them how much you want to call it. With the understanding of older people and their needs, but especially with the image of the older generation, it was not the best thing at the time, 11 years ago, when I took over the “Senior Club” in ORF. It was scoffed over the older generation. I asked myself: Why is that? Where is this gap, where is this misunderstanding that caused this mockery? If you take a longer time with the issue of getting older, which many still want to push ahead and say of the many: It never happens to me!, put apart, then you actually get more and more convinced that aging is something quite great. I'm in front of you here and I'm telling you: I feel very comfortable with my 63 years! Five years ago, I still had to generate in the ORF that I was over 50 at the time; I don't have to do this today with my work here in Parliament at all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Why? – That's quite clear, we all know: The older people are becoming an ever larger group, we are already now, and this group will grow in the next decades. But this is not a problem, it is rather a challenge and ultimately a great satisfaction for us, because we all, as we are sitting here – and you are the boys and the middles, you will be able to experience this time of aging well. And why can you experience well? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sburny.]] – Because you are in a social system and because, above all, medical progress has grown enormously. This does not apply only to the elderly. Let us think of the example of the two boys who have broken into the ice-cream! Five years ago, they could not have been saved. This symbolizes the medical progress that benefits us day after day. I am pleased about it, and everyone who is older knows that this is the security of our future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The safety of this health system is also a financial issue, that is clear. We all know, but we don't want to admit that. I have just talked to countless seniors about this point, and they have asked what is most important to them in their lives. You answered me: Certainly my family, that's the most important, but the second is my ability to get healthy older, and I also want this system to be preserved. [[Call the SPÖ:Health and Pension!]] – You have understood that we are increasing the health insurance contribution. They have understood it as a responsible policy of this government. [[Abg. Schopf: pension cuts!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I say this again: It has been understood, it has been accepted! It's about a generation, ladies and gentlemen, who lived in difficult times and – I don't want to put it on tapet again and again – also learned to get out with little that has always known what it retains and saves something for. Health is now in the foreground. And I'm glad about it. Perhaps someone else will get in the way of it, but I will come or I will be able to enjoy this progress in the field of health: I've had my right hip joint exchanged and I don't have to wait for it. [[Abg. Sburny: There you were lucky!]] I have a new life, and I feel good! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] You are not so far, and you may never need it, but whoever is facing such a question and really feels it on his own body, he knows where to go. That is why I am grateful for all donations, for all the support and also for all the considerations of this government that ensure this form of survival for us older people, support, plan and take precautions – you also have to do that, that is also a courageous step! And courageous steps in the government are not easy, they can of course be used very well by the opposition with impossible words and comparisons such as campaign, such as robbery, such as poverty traps, like carrier missiles, which I don't want to hear any more! [[Abg. Oils: (on p. He said that!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Are you aware of what you're doing in your mouth? – It’s a war hall, a war hall that I really don’t want to leave in the room like that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But I would also like to take advantage of this opportunity for something new, which I have had in my mind for a long time, and to promote it, namely the absolutely new image of this older generation. Ladies and gentlemen! If we have a lifetime of 60 to 90 years today – and that is not an illusion, that is reality! – then we have to look at the people of this phase of life quite differently. They are no longer a pile that you can overlook, they are people who live quite differently; they plan, learn, others pick up, above all. Engagement is a matter of course of the older generation, including helping. There was no headline in the media about the fact that in the families, without saying anything, the children are cared for, that smaller and larger purchases are supported, that many things happen, for which older people are never praised, never stand in the paper. [[Abg. Sburny: Yes! And you'll take advantage of it! They use the good will of the people!]] It is thought to be a matter of course! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] For us older people, it is quite clear that we are happy to do these works and work for others. But we also want to be recognized as an active generation that delivers a recognised performance in our state, in our country. [[Abg. Brosz:... to do with pension cuts?]] I very much ask you to trust the people I represent here and whom I trust – because I discuss with them, talk to them and forge plans – more in discerning between reflections and reality, how we can build our country. Ladies and gentlemen! Take the thought that even in the older generation, the future of our country lies in excellent hands! [[Abg. Dr. Rada: Tell the Federal Chancellor!]] Support You are these elderly people, the seniors in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e5081	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. His speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e5101	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Call to the ÖVP and the Freeman: Now it will be difficult!]] I also greet the audiences on the gallery and in front of the televisions! It's hard for me, you're right. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: Hard, this will be difficult!]] After this speech by Mr Turković-Wendl, I find it difficult to start with what I actually wanted to say. [[Call the ÖVP:Yes, that's not easy!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Don't give up your speech right now!]] [[Abg. May. Worm: No, really not!]] [[Rejoicing and detonating by members of the liberals.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I find it difficult because your speech has actually gone to the limits of what many have just been tolerable – and not only for pensioners. It is nice for you, Mrs Turković-Wendl, if you can explain: I feel good. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Is that bad?]] But I know a lot of pensioners who don't feel well. I would like to give you an example, an example that I would not like to mention, because it fits into the usual scheme: My mother has a compensation allowance. [[Abg. Donabauer: Ah, the mother again!]] [[Call to the ÖVP: Like the one from the Gusenbauer!]] I charge you this: €619.41 net in 2003, €624.78 in 2004. This is the case here if Mrs Wendl explains that pensioners could afford everything. [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: No, she didn't say that!]] If you claim that you have access to the best health care, I can only hold you against the following – I ask you for some attention –: [[ongoing calls to the ÖVP]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: They don't want to hear that!]] If my mother receives recipes, they are free of charge for her as a compensation beneficiary from the health insurance fund. However, this is absolutely necessary for them – with this low income. But with an increase of 0.5 percent in the health insurance contribution and an annual removal of prescriptions from the health insurance service catalogue – recipes necessary for these people, but then they have to pay for themselves – you can calculate what remains of these €624.78. [[Abg. May. Molterer: We make it cheaper as you know!]] And then don’t come to call me statements about sausages of €10 “youth overwhelming ”! That's where the fun stops! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Leave She also asked the argument that one was glad – and that was the picture of the Turkish-Wendl Members – about hip joint operations that had gone so fast! Do you know how long you have to wait for hip joint operations? – Half a year to a year is currently waiting! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Hakl: Maybe in Vienna! Not in Tyrol!]] [[Call the SPÖ:Scandal!]] Everyone who deals with the matter knows this, except one has the possibility of a private supplementary insurance. Then it's fast, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Turković-Wendl, it is not for me to talk about your income or to make statements about it. The fact is, however, that your income is clearly different from that of the average pensioners, as well as my income, I only grasp the party for those who are going badly, who have to live of 600 or 700 or also 1 500 €. [[Abg. Head: Yes – and yours?]] [[Abg. Head: (on abg. Turković-Wendl interprets) And she doesn't?]] Because they are not as good as us or those,...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e5348	Member's head! Your calls are disturbing!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e5370	... that have a second or third income. That is the reality in this country! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The pensioners who have an income of €600 – and the compensation payers do not even receive the supplement of 0.6 percent – must be introduced to the head of state in order to get the money paid “bar on hand”. [[Abg. May. Hakl: That's why we make a law!]] Then, in the news, happy faces are shown, because this is so “fine” and so “loving”, but I ask you to bear in mind that it was exactly this older generation that also saw other pictures, which have once experienced a time in which one had to perform. [[Abg. Dolnschek:... unbureaucratic!]] [[Abg. Dolinschek: They have built Austria!]] Ladies and gentlemen! You know that! If Mr. Landesführer Haider in Carinthia spends more on the ads with which he sells this alms policy than on the actual payout, then the fun stops! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] The pensioners are allowed to make retirement payments to the heads of state. The Federal Government then says that it will repair it, that everyone will receive up to €780 0.6 percent in addition. The head of state then gets this back from the insured money. [[Abg. Wittauer: He didn't know that before!]] This is the next Community: It does not pay the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany from the Federal Republic of Germany, but the insured persons pay this Jux promotion once again from the reserves formed in the pension insurance scheme. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's wrong!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: “Jux action” are you saying?]] If people do not have 0.6 percent, which simply means a few more euros, then the community of this action would probably be insurmountable, because the insured will pay for everything themselves anyway. Neither the Federal Chancellor nor the Minister for Social Affairs accept these costs. The Minister of Social Affairs spends the money in his party propaganda, party advertising and advisory contracts, of which Mr Scheibner says he would have enough of these consultants, he does not want to see them anymore. That's how it looks in reality! That's your policy. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: I don't have a consultant at all!]] – But spend money on it, lots of money! Your government, Mr Scheibner! They support them. [[Abg. Scheibner: The consultants are still better than your speech!]] Ladies and gentlemen! They have not only shortened at the “old” pensions and not only at the low pensions. They have created a situation in the ASVG sector that since 2000, the average ASVG sanctions have even been reduced by around 10 percent. I can tell you this: In 2000, someone who worked for 45 years – I got the example – received net €1,557. That's a good ASVG-pension; much higher it doesn't work anymore, maybe a little more. A short continuation of the example: In 2004 he receives €1,545, which is €12 less. Inflation from 2000 to 2004 is a total of 9.1 percentage points higher. And you're saying they didn't lose anything? If it were only Mrs Turković-Wendl, that we should go to the pensioners – just as to other groups – and say, we need the money, we want to finance good services, we want to create something for the old, but also for the boys, then the last pensioners who would not agree to it would be just as all the other groups. But when it comes to such a cheap waste-cashing action, where nothing is contrary to this, then after four years of such a policy, people are really upset. They also leave the boys in the rain. This is the situation we find with regard to jobs. They also turn the boys into bitters around jobs and into bitters for education. This is how reality looks in schools and in education! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Let the following: You're telling me: Even from your ranks, a former ÖAAB-Bundesobmann says: The most embarrassing excitement for the government to reduce pensions is the result of a rather bad trick. – So come on. They don't say: The oillinger exaggerates shamelessly again. That's what it was. Her former Secretary General Kohlmaier, who wrote this in the press. As you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP – and I remember well – said in the 2002 election debate, the Greens are cutting down pensions, the Greens are the evil ones who want to cut down pensions, I hope that not only in the coming country election, but also in the next National Council election, the memory of people, the long-term memory of the elderly is so far developed as Mrs Turković-Wendl wants you to receive the deserved answer to this policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e5549	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e5567	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Oellinger, if your mother gets a pension of €615, she'll get with 1. In June, the difference amount was net, calculated 14 times a year. [[Abg. Oils: compensation allowance!]] If she were at home in Carinthia, she would have gotten this money, because the head of state of Carinthia has responded to this question and paid it to the people. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This happened within two days, after a week the first payments were made. Those who help quickly help twice, ladies and gentlemen! – So much for that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Dr. Gusenbauer thinks it took a month to decide on this repair. Mr. Dr. Gusenbauer, I can't remember that ever in the history of the Second Republic, if you confess to a mistake and make a correction, this reaction has happened so quickly. [[Abg. Scheibner: Ask him if he agrees!]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is certainly no shame that if you commit a mistake, you immediately repair it and implement new things. That's no shame! – Mrs Colleague, I hope Dr Gusenbauer will agree to our request. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Ask if he agrees!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: I don't think so!]] - Don't you think? Let's wait! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it is incomprehensible for every micro-pensionist when events such as the increase in health insurance come out net less at once. People with a pension up to €780 were tax-free in the past. Many who had previously been tax-free now had to bear this new burden. Let's fix that right now. In addition, there is now also a tax reform. Dear ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, it is one of the most important things that we are now repairing as soon as possible. In the course of the special meeting, I mentioned the following: If you look at the SPÖ's request, you can read that it requires a 0.8 percent pension adjustment. It explains that the 2004 inflation rate will be forecast by the Austrian Institute for Economic Research by 1.2 percent. The pension adjustment already decided amounts to an average of 1 per cent, thus missing 0.2 per cent. Health and accident insurance will be increased, so there will also be an increase of 0.8 percent. – 0.8 percent for all means, Dr. Gusenbauer, that you are working for the Blechas and for the pensioners with a high pension and not for the micro-pensionists. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If someone gets 10 000 € pension, he gets more with an increase of 0.8 per cent 80 €. Mr. Blecha has more, he gets 12 800 €. And someone with only 500 € pension gets only 4 €. We are talking about applying these principles of solidarity, and here we are dealing with those people who have little pension, and serving them more effectively. 530 000 people, more than half a million Austrians, are now benefiting from this measure. I'm glad we can do this now. What's the SPÖ doing? – In Carinthian Newspapers, SPÖ provides an application for an increase of 0.8 percent in Parliament and that this will be the sample of nails for the members of FPÖ and ÖVP. And by the way, she's running election fraud. Mr Gusenbauer, you once said that it was not the first time pensions were reduced. - We're not shortening them now! But you're right. It is not the first time, it has happened more often than you have borne the responsibility in Austria and here in the House. I just remember how this was with net adjustment, I remember when the famous Vrnitzky letter was sent out in 1995, which resulted in the reduction of pensions, but previously the blue was promised from heaven. And now the Carinthian SP candidate Ambrozy also writes a pensioner's letter. My mother got one, too. He writes in it: ==References== But there's a sign! The ÖVP and the FPÖ are making a pension clause, a pension clause. [[Demonstrative applause at SPÖ.]] It also says: Each doctor's visit becomes more expensive. – He probably confuses the Federal Republic of Germany with Austria. – He writes: Each doctor's visit costs €10. – This is true in Germany with your colleague Schröder, with the red-green German government that is so, but not in Austria! He's a little confused. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is uncertainty! Constituency!]] Perhaps, Dr. Gusenbauer, you will give Mr. Ambrozy further instruction on how it really is! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Exactly!]] In contrast, the value of the care allowance will be evaluated in Austria next year, and VAT will also be reduced in the case of medicinal products by 50 percent. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Where?]] VAT is reduced from 20 percent to 10 percent. This benefits all older people and those who are sick. This is the idea of solidarity that we are living here in this House and in this coalition, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Dr. Gusenbauer! Discounts for the prescription fee for generics between 30 percent and 50 percent are also foreseen. Thus, the recipe fee for this group of persons will be a lot cheaper. In particular, the micro-pensionists will benefit from this. The care check and the old age at home, as Mr Rossmann mentioned earlier, is propagated in Carinthia. We will discuss this through to what extent that will be possible at the federal level. Then we will try to implement this, ladies and gentlemen, too. That's how it looks with the pensions and the smallest pensions. You represent the Blechas, those who have high pensions, but you have forgotten the “small” pensioners – in Carinthia as well as in the League! On the occasion of the debate on the harmonisation of pension systems, I can remind myself that the SPÖ has repeatedly said that there should actually be a solidarity contribution to high pensions. However, with this request you have made here, you are actually contradicting what is in the nature of the matter if you are already working for harmonisation. Mr. Dr. Gusenbauer, in Vienna the SPÖ has the absolute majority. Why, for example, have you not already implemented harmonisation in the countries? [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In Carinthia, it is true that several attempts have already been made to introduce the same pension system for all – for the state officials and the municipal officials. We are not in charge here in the National Council unless you agree and we have a two-thirds majority. This was always rejected by SPÖ in the Carinthian Landtag. Rejected! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That's it!]] But, if you want, then you also have a sign in Vienna or Burgenland, where you have the responsibility, or also in Carinthia, so that this will finally be implemented. We, Dr. Gusenbauer, are in favour of harmonizing pension systems. We are dealing with fair solutions. All generations are equally important to us – I say that – to the young as well as the older. Something has to be done for everyone. We are in favour of a fair and fair pension system and harmonisation of different systems. All occupational groups – whether workers, employees, farmers or officials – should have the same claims and should be changed to a benefit and contribution-oriented pension account. We agree that this is based on a set-a-side regulation, because it is more just than if two different systems are being run side by side for about 30 years. Every euro paid must be equally worth it. The younger generation and today's workers must also have the chance that they will receive a calculated pension at the same level as today. That's fact. We want to implement this; I am confident that we will bring it into line with the coalition partner in this year. I also hope for the social partners that they will be involved and for your group if you are concerned about the idea of solidarity. [[towards SPÖ]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e5773	The Federal Minister Mag has been reported to speak. Chief. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e5792	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators, both here in the High House and at home in front of the televisions! High house! Today, the National Council will probably decide with the votes of the government parties that a compensation for pensions will be made up to € 780. I don't want to sell this as a success, but I want to see it as a matter of course that a mistake we've made is corrected – if we've made it. [[Abg. Parnigoni: This is your attitude!]] The protection of the health system by increasing health insurance contributions is the reason that “small” pensioners have created irrespicable payments, which we will now jointly correct – thankfully – by the government parties. I would like to give the ladies and gentlemen pensioners at home and you, ladies and gentlemen in the High House, a letter from the Vienna regional health fund of 11. Dr. Schröder, from the Director-General Brenner's office, did not hold back the following: “Despite a relatively stable overall level of the number of pensioners insured at the Vienna regional health insurance fund in the period 1990 to 1999, the reduction in the contribution rate, additional benefits and an increase in the demand for health insurance benefits led to a reduction of 69.35% in 1990 to 38.55% in 1999. ” I quote: “In view of the current financial situation of the cashier, it seems necessary to ensure, by means of appropriate legal measures, that under cover in pensioners’ health insurance does not continue.” And on top of that: “The Board of Directors held its meeting on 3 October. In July 2001, the Supervisory Assembly took note of the suggestion and instructed the Office to take appropriate steps to implement this suggestion.” – So far, ladies and gentlemen, the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse to do so. I believe that also the letter of the Vienna Regional Health Fund from 3rd grade. In July 2001, which submitted this decision to my home, it is worth reading about this point: “A future growing group of insured persons, namely pensioners, takes over-proportional health insurance benefits into account, without taking this into account.” Mr Gusenbauer, you obviously do not know what the other hand wants. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Otherwise, this letter by Mr Brenner, who – if I can follow it back from my political career – was once again a member of the Metal Trade Union, was not to understand. The decision-making of the Wiener Gebieskrankenkasse in 2001 and the composition of the Board of Directors do not result in a majority for any of the government parties on this Board of Directors, even in political terms. That is why, Mr Gusenbauer, perhaps you should speak with your comrades in Vienna about the different ways of thinking. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr Oellinger! I am very grateful that you referred to the long-term memory of pensioners. In 1995 the famous Vrnitzky letter, which my Carinthian group colleague Dolinschek correctly quoted, came up with. In 1996, a 1.3 percent net pension was introduced and the highest rate of burden that pensioners had to take up in the Second Republic until now. I hope that the long-term memory – as Mr Oellinger said – will continue to work for a very long time. I also hope that with this, those who have a long-term memory, who are referred here in the original letter of Mr Ambrozy, where he belongs: to election promises and to uncertainties that are simply and simply wrong in the substrate. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oellinger: (keeping a document in height) That is what you have written!]] Ladies and gentlemen, it should also be remembered that the quoted self-retainies have existed in the recipe fees since 1955. Since 1955, the self-retaining of remedies such as glasses, orthopaedic shoe deposits and so on, the self-retaining of aids such as body replacements and health-care chairs have also been in existence since 1955, the payment for rehabilitations since 1996 – since the Vranitzky government – the payment for spa stays since 1996 – since the Vranitzky government – and the introduction of the health certificate fee since 1997 – have also not been wrong, since the Vranitzky government. Ladies and gentlemen, if you go to the doctor four times in the quarter today, then that costs 14,52 €, as it has been introduced since 1997. In Germany under red-green costs the same 40 €. ==References== January 2005 will cost 10 € for the whole year, i.e. 4.52 € less. If I remember correctly, there has always been a discussion on the part of social democracy and the Greens, to relieve those who are chronically ill of all the other groups. Now that they are relieved – 14 € for 10 €, grossly spoken – this is a bad situation at once. Mr Gusenbauer, can I correct your figures? – You are not very far away, but it seems important to me to correct this for the ladies and gentlemen here: In the 1980s, there was an average increase of not 4 per cent, but 3.5 per cent – by the way, at an average inflation rate of 3.8 per cent, Mr Gusenbauer – in the 1990s, there was an average increase of not 2.6%, but 2.3 per cent at an inflation rate of 2.4 per cent. [[Abg. Scheibner: He didn't say that!]] [[Aha-noise with the liberals.]] Mr Gusenbauer! This has led to the fact that, after the Second World War, the generation of structures you have repeatedly quoted has today become a compensation guide. The compensatory allowance targets for single persons were increased by 7.5 percent from 2000 to 2004 without and 7.5 percent with a single-earner discount amount. The target rate for married persons was increased by 16.1 percent without 15.1 percent with a single-earner discount at an average inflation rate of 1.9 percent, respectively. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: That's not true!]] Mr Gusenbauer, I would ask you to take into account the actual situation of your numbering players. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] However, I am grateful to you, Mr Oellinger, for addressing pensions with just over €1,000. I have here an example with exactly 1 000 € pension: The net increase of 2004 amounted to 4.6 percent without a single-earner discount, with a single-earner discount of 4.4 percent. It is true that there was a loss of 0.8 per cent for pensioners over €2,000 and also a significant loss for officials who had higher pensions. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mr Oellinger! I can recall very well that both the Social Democrats and the Greens have spoken about the fact that they want to remove a solidarity contribution from pensioners. If a solidarity contribution would come, then you would tell the insured one that it's pension robbery, but if you suggest it in your pension model, then say it's the fairest pension model. Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask you to compare the same thing with the same thing and not apples with pears! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oils: Yes! But, please, be clean!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am in favour of solidarity. I am in favour of solidarity in the health system. I am in favour of solidarity between young and old. I am opposed to the playout of the generations, and I am against the fact that the people who cannot defend themselves, no matter if they are election times or other times, are not insured. I am very grateful for the fact that two national leaders, with immediate payments, have taken over the arms of those who are financially really bad. But there is no need to become a biter, Mr. Oellinger, but each individual will be paid out as quickly as possible by social security, so that no one has to go to the prince of the country in order to stick to your terminology. [[Abg. Oils: Are they!]] [[Abg. Oils: That was already!]] Each individual will be paid in the appropriate form, but only at a later date, about the middle of the year, the increases decided today. Mr Oellinger, I would also like to correct your remarks and say to you: The reserves are not used up, but what is needed for these payments is about €20 million, from the Federal budget, and it is not depleted from the hardening fund to other hardy cases. Since I am always accused in the public of the fact that the introduction of hardness funds would be a non-social act, I can point out that it is unsocial in my opinion that someone who comes across the directives by 10 or 20 cents cannot be helped because the law clearly provides this. That is why I am in favour of the fact that we have hard funds for such emergencies to help unbureaucratically where the law unfortunately cannot help.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e5987	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Trunk. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e6005	Mr President, I should like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Sozialminister Herbert Haupt, with all your ambiguity, one thing is clear for pensioners in Austria: Even after your repair today, they will have to wait for a social balance and a fair rate of inflation! What you stand for is one-time payment as alms. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's what you introduced!]] – What we, the Social Democracy, stand for with Alfred Gusenbauer, Gabi Burgstaller, Peter Ambrozy, Gabi Schaunig and all others is social justice and fair inflation! – This is what distinguishes us from you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The pensioners, and me and many democrats, Mrs. Wendl, Federal Chancellor, are still waiting – I hope not for long – for a clear distance from the statement of your social spokesperson Walter Tancsit. I quote this statement by Walter Tancsits on pension reform: “The alternatives would be to scatter sand into people’s eyes or the disposal of older people on euthanasia paths.” – That’s human contempt! That's more than a scandal! And this calls for a clear removal by the Federal Chancellor. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Our answer is not silence and silence, but our answer is commitment and courage of social democracy. [[The speaker put forward a paper saying: “SPÖ: People’s desire against pension robbery. 22. ==References== March 2004’ in front of the speaker’s desk.]] Our answer is first of all the commitment to launch a people's pension desire against this robbery and against this social injustice, and secondly the courage to stand behind it and to do so. [[Abg. Großruck: Read the newspaper comments!]] They lack the courage to look into the reality of life of the people, the women, the men and the children in Austria! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Chancellor! What is reality? – We live in Austria in 2004 in a Republic where people have to stand again snakes: 352,000 unemployed people, including 48 000 unemployed young people. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Wiener Misswirtschaft!]] 26 000 people face social institutions because they cannot cope with the pension advance and cannot survive. [[Call the ÖVP:In Vienna!]] Now to the address of the so-called economic parties: In Austria a total of 5,648 companies – in Carinthia alone all 414 – are in front of the bankruptcy judge snake. – You bear the responsibility for this! It is your responsibilityless policy, your policy against the people of Austria, especially in Carinthia. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They force a generation of men and women to stand again with snakes who had to experience this in their youth and childhood – a generation that has built up and has a positive responsibility for the prosperity of the Republic of Austria. This generation has to stand in front of offices today in order to get back the €10, 20, 30 alms from the hand of a head of state that he and you have taken away three times before. Federal Chancellor! Mr Grasser, Minister of Finance, who is not here today! Above all, Mr Sozialminister! It is true that you all together with the head of the Kärntner state together have decided all these measures not only in the Coalition Committee, but also here with your votes. Together with Jörg Haider, they bear responsibility for this loss of pensions, for the social cold, for unemployment and for the futurelessness of our youth. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Chancellor! They're my confectionery. I quote a statement from you on this measure. Wolfgang Schüssel in the O-Ton: “The measure has been calculated and decided with intention because pensioners need almost half of the health costs.” This measure has been taken by the FPÖ, i.e. also by Jörg Haider. Federal Chancellor! They say what it is: the politics of an insolent poker player as a German chancellor and his co-player Jörg Haider, who constantly changes the pages between Vienna and Klagenfurt, the phrases and the robe. [[Abg. Grandruck: Unheard of!]] [[Abg. Miedl: Incredible!]] [[further violent calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman]] With today's superficial repair... [[Call the ÖVP: Unheard!]] Do you know what's insolent?
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e6185	The speaking time has expired, ladies and gentlemen. – I repeat that the speaking time has expired. [[Abg. May. Trunk remains at the speaker's desk.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Leave the speaker's desk, your speaking time has expired!]] [[Abg. May. Trunk still doesn't leave the speaker's desk.]] Please leave the speaker's room! [[Congratulations on the SPÖ for the Abg, which is now leaving the speaker's desk. May. Trunk.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: (in the direction of Abg. May. Drunk) Such a superlative thing! It's under every criticism!]] Next item is the report by Mr Tancsits. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e6275	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! If, as my previous speaker put it, the SPÖ Group is really important to increase pensions, then it does not need to make a popular desire, but it is sufficient if it agrees in a few hours to our request for an increase in pensions for 2004, an extraordinary increase of 0.6 percent, which, as explained by the Minister of Social Affairs, will compensate for the increase in health insurance contributions for far more than 50 percent of individual pensioners. [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] This necessary increase in health insurance contributions does not take place at all for the majority of pensioners. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the right answer to the question of social compensation – not the description of an increase in pensions as a robbing of pensions, which is based on the inflation rate and on the increases in the incomes of the workers – namely, where social compensation is necessary to create it in addition. In this context, I should like to remind you: Pension increases have been made in Austria since 1993 in accordance with the so-called net adjustment system, and in 2003 – in an international year of crisis; I think we have managed this well – wages, salaries and self-employed income have not increased very much, but to the same extent. This is with an effect of the payment process – and on its only support you have been setting up for decades, and you have for about ten years prevented the “handling new” – namely that pensions do not rise higher. That is also necessary. Nevertheless, there was a one-time payment to pay off inflation, and this one-off payment has ensuring that pensioners do not suffer a real loss of income due to inflation. There was then an increase in health insurance contributions in 2004, which I no longer need to justify and implement after my colleague Wendl's speech on her need, but also on her acceptance in the population. This means continuing to be full of access for compensation recipients to the health system at no cost, but not only to the health system, but also to the achievements of medical progress. That means: More than half of all pensioners receive the necessary health insurance contributions. But that also means – the development of the compensation allowance shows this; I have a statistics from the main association here – that there is still another increase in the compensatory allowance rate beyond the pension increase. Pensions increased by around 3 percent between 2000 and 2003, by 8.9 percentage points, by 14.2 percentage points for married couples. Nevertheless, the number of compensation recipients, although increased more, has actually had to be more, has become smaller – and this against the background of more pensioners. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a successful social policy and not a pension robbery. Think about this again and agree to our request for a pension increase!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e6347	I call Mrs Sburny. Same time of speech: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e6365	Mr President. High house! Mr Tancsits, what will be decided today with the votes of the ÖVP and FPÖ political groups is, of course, not a pension increase, but a one-time payment, and if you want to check that the low pensions are getting lower and higher, you will not succeed. This is a one-time payment, which does not change anything structurally at all, which will not be counted next year for any increase in pensions. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] This one-time payment from one of your hardy funds is good for all those who need this money very urgently, but it doesn't change anything about structural disadvantages due to low pensions. This disadvantage due to low pensions... [[Abg. Wittauer: Why don't you agree?]] Listen to me, I'm telling you! The disadvantage of low pensions remains upright, and the gap between the lowest pensions and the highest pensions is becoming increasingly disparaging. This is what your policy is to blame and what you have decided as a pension law. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wittauer.]] With this one-time payment, you try to check that your so-called pension reform is a measure that continues to affect people with low pensions while ministers can secure themselves through private pensions. In this way, destroy the principle of payment – on this issue we will then come again – and simply put it in private care. The question of who can afford this will still be a matter today. There are above all two groups of people who are particularly affected: first those people who have lower educational opportunities for a variety of reasons, and second women. If you look at the survey on the working climate index of November, you will see that the fear of old age insurance is increasing dramatically, especially among these two groups, namely the people who have lower educational opportunities for different reasons, and women. In women with children, fear has increased from 27 to 44 percent in recent years due to non-existent age insurance. I already know what Mr Ellmauer and others will say about it, namely: Those who criticize this are those who spread fear and uncertainty! The opposition is the one that spreads fear and uncertainty. SORA, who made this survey, spreads fear and uncertainty. You would prefer to abolish any statistics so that you can't read more about the effects of your policy. But I tell you who is responsible for this uncertainty: These are your laws that you have passed in the context of the so-called reform. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] In my home town of Langenlois, for example, the street workers have calculated that their pension will look so much like in the future that, although they have to work three and a half years longer, they will receive about 48 percent less pension. It is quite similar to a lot of women who because of non-existent childcare places and structural disadvantages on the labour market due to the longer conversion time much less, up to 40 percent less... – I find it “ nice” that you enjoy this incredible, but it is little amusing for the people who are concerned. [[Members of the Freemans speak and laugh at each other in the bank series.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Because that's a joke, what you're saying, because that's not true! That's wrong!]] No, it's not wrong, it's calculated, and just because... [[Abg. Wittauer: Mrs Collaborative! The 10-percent cover is wrong!]] It's not wrong! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Wittauer: It's the 10 percent cover wrong!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: This is an uncertainty of the elderly people what you are doing!]] That's what bothers me: that you make laws here that force people into poverty, and then, like today again, act with a unique alms, as if it were anything repaired, and want to be celebrated for it. – That’s, I think, politically last-class!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e6497	I call Mr Walch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e6521	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! It is already sad, I must say, that this speaker's desk is trying to spread the untruth about what's going on with the pension system in Austria, although you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, know exactly that thousands, perhaps hundreds of thousands of people, are watching. There is already the question to be answered: Who has created this system in Austria at all? Who has created privileges for whom? – SPÖ has a senior representative called Karl Blecha, and this is what Dr. Gisenbauer gives up 0.8 percent more pension, although Karl Blecha von der SPÖ, a pension funder, has a monthly pension of 12 554 €. [[Abg. Silhavy: Cheese!]] Let this break on the tongue! I repeat: 12 554 € or 172 000 S per month! This SPÖ under its chancellor has not managed for 30 years to do something for the little ones, to increase the wage for the little ones as it should be, for then more contributions would have been paid and we would not have this problem today. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Let us consider at all the whole system, what has happened over the past 30 years, the privilege system of SPÖ Chancellors and SPÖ Finance Ministers. To the politicians' pensions: These were abolished at the pressure of the liberals in 1997. There are no longer any new members of the government or Members of Parliament. Then the next one. Last year, we decided that for those members of the government or Members who leave Parliament or from the country, the payment of compensation will be reduced from twelve months to six months, or from six months to three months by Members. The reference was shortened from 100 percent to 75 percent. [[Abg. Oils: I don't know!]] Where was the SPÖ? - No, she voted against. It wants to receive privileges at the expense of Austrian taxpayers. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] So and now the bulge is on the i. Today there is a request from ÖVP and FPÖ, according to which all those pensioners whose pension is below € 780 are to receive a one-time payment of 0.6 percent. I think that is very good, and I also hope that the SPÖ will agree. But the best is the following: Last week, ÖAAB and the ÖVP and the liberals had a meeting on the Board of Pension Insurance and meant forward-looking: If this law is passed in Parliament on Wednesday, we will immediately convene an extraordinary meeting of the Board of Directors and decide on this additional payment as provided for in the law adopted today. You won't believe it, maybe Dr. Gusenbauer doesn't know what his alleged union representatives are doing there in pension insurance. These have said that it is not in question at all, we do not call this meeting at all. We've got time, we're waiting a little while longer, so maybe we're still expecting a little bit. [[Abg. Scheibner: Aha, the people are waiting! What's that?]] That's the real face! Thank God the ÖVP and the FPÖ have prevailed on the board of directors. I'm curious and I'm going to ask my representatives what on 4 May. The SPÖ representatives agree that those pensioners in Austria who receive a pension below €780 will receive 0.6 percent and that this will be carried out quickly. If you, who caused this mess, honestly mean it with the Austrian pensioners, then agree today! 30 years you would have had time to ensure fair wages and fair pensions in Austria. You've always said: Poor, help me so I don't feel the way you do. – These are the statements of the SPÖ and Karli Blecha.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e6597	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e6615	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I think we should put quite a few figures on the table in the sense of an objective debate, which show how the situation really looks in recent years, and then, as I think, everyone, especially the people who watch us, can judge whether the harsh words of pension robbery and scandal are correct. I take the average wage in 1999 and in 2004. This average wage has increased by 9 percent thanks to the social partners. Now we're comparing the average board. It rose by 8 percent at the same time. Now I look at the social democrats, the liberal trade unionists and those of the ÖVP and ask: Is it not really a very reasonable relationship that pensioners have had almost the same share of economic growth and growth as the entire active population? There is therefore no mention of robbery, because otherwise it would also be a robbery of the workers whom the social partners would be responsible for. The facts show a sober and actually positive picture, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] A second comparison: Let us make a comparison with the time when a Social Democratic Chancellor, Finance Minister and Social Minister for Pensions and their financing were responsible. From 1995 to 1999, the guidelines for single compensation recipients increased by €49. SPÖ time: 29 € increase, ÖVP/FPÖ time 49 € – an increase of 11 percent, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Now there are pensioners who live in a community, family, community: In your time, from 1995 to 1999, the family directive has increased by 42 €, in our time by 154 €, i.e. almost 21 percent! [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Dr. Gusenbauer, believe me – I am one who researches exactly before he says something here –: All these numbers are verifiable! Now you can rightly say of the opposition, that is still too little for us, but, please, then don't do it with this jealous pathos, as if the people in Austria would be robbed. Not at all! To popular desire, right up at the gallery, Mrs. Knoll was sitting: If you say the pension reform costs or saves €3 billion, then I can only resist it: In 1999 we spent € 21.3 billion on pensions without public service. – Today it is €3.6 billion more. So no one is left behind in Austria. Nobody freezes here, nobody's left alone here, we'll take care of it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] One thing is right: We have the health insurance contribution for pensioners by half a percent with 1. - Yes, raised. And it's going to be on the 1st. The same is true of January 2005. Now the question – and you have to discuss it objectively – is: Is that a proper measure? On average, this costs about €4.5 per month. Now, in an impressive speech for me – I haven't heard them talking in this style yet – Ingrid Turković-Wendl pointed out the development especially for the older generation. This is a purely objective question, so there is nothing to do with party politics. Let us look at the development of the number of hip joint operations. Today, 18 000 people are being operated on each year. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Thank God!]] Of course, they're waiting for a while. Ten years ago, it wasn't even a third. Each operation costs €9 000. This is financed by our health and medical system. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] That's what I'm really asking openly: Is it not justified to ask for a small, modest contribution to this generally accessible medicine – to the difference from other countries, where, by the way, social democrats are not quite far from the government power, I only remember Great Britain or other countries, where this is not so obvious? But we are in Austria, and we have something that we can all be proud of together. Today, more than 10,000 knee operations are carried out, in which artificial knees are installed. Ten years ago, there were 1,000 or 2,000. Each operation costs 10 000 €. It is well-designed medical care for our citizens. And I think that a small contribution is adequate for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Today, 50 000 operations are being carried out in Austria each year to eliminate the gray star. This is more than twice as much as at any other time, ten years before and so on. Let us ask the pensioners, please, whether this is a reasonable contribution to a common health care system. It's not like this is snow from heaven. Herbert Haupt has told us very impressively that the representatives of the Wiener Gebietskrankenkasse – and there the social partners sit inside and mostly red unionists – have just as recommended. We have also discussed it with the social partners. While we want to maintain the total stability of the additional wage costs, we have meant – and this can be openly represented – that such a contribution is reasonable to pensioners who pay a lower health insurance contribution than to the active population. And in addition, the tax reform, which comes with 1. 150,000 pensioners are tax-free this year and next year. I therefore believe quite consciously that this positive current account can be achieved before the Austrian public. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Of course, use this now to make propaganda for the pension harvesting people's desire. I understand. On the other hand, if we already discuss it objectively – now Gusenbauer is no longer there, yes, well, he stands behind me, then he hears me – then I also ask you to pay attention to the quotes that have fallen nine months ago. [[Calls at the SPÖ]] The party president of the SPÖ has proposed that his pension system costs 10 percent of the amount of pensions. And literally: This is an amount you can live with. - Either robbery or not robbery. I am personally in favour of an objective discussion, and I say quite frankly that I would be right if we could take a little away from this rather gross rhetoric. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Much more beautiful it has said to and for itself the independent press. The independent press has this popular act, which makes a party, and not the people, as characterizing what it actually is. For example, I quote the press: ‘Participants for painless reform’. The “Small Newspaper ” writes: ‘A 20-year-old would have to suffer from acute dementia if he, with his signature, wanted to cancel the security measures that had already been watered down to the level of non-recognition. It would be a case of pensioning itself." Other newspapers have labeled it even harder. Personally, I believe that we must tell the Austrians, pensioners and pensioners: Thank you for your construction! Be sure that we are always aware of this achievement that we are trying to guarantee socially responsible all that is necessary in health care and in retirement care. But also understand that there can be nothing at zero rate. I sometimes miss this honesty in the political debate. In any case, we are ready to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e6711	Ladies and gentlemen! We now have a speaking time of 26 minutes to 1 p.m. I am obliged to divide these into four speakers at the same time. This results in 6 minutes per speaker. If it's exactly observed, then that's exactly what it's all about. Mrs Scharer has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The speaking time is 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e6751	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! As regards Mr Walch's comments, I would like to make a brief comment and to make it clear. Do you know who will receive a higher pension than Karl Blecha? [[Call the ÖVP:Peter Schieder!]] – Wolfgang Schüssel, Jörg Haider, Andreas Khol, colleague stupid to name just a few. The issue, as I believe, is therefore adequately addressed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The people, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bundeskanzler, I have recently met with a lot of people, are shaken, affected and unscathed about this uncertainty policy of the ÖVP/FPÖ government in connection with the pension system. They have clearly lost the relationship and, above all, the sense of the people who deserved a worthy life assurance in old age. Federal Chancellor! If you had always spoken so crediblely, even during the choice where you assured the pensioners that there will not be any pension reductions! In addition, however, you have made statements such as: The increase in health insurance contributions had to be now, had always been planned and calculated, because at least you consume far too much of health costs in old age. There is also a Federal Minister who is not afraid to charge the elderly with the actual health costs in a embarrassing way. Mr. Klubobmann Molterer, you have no idea what you are doing with your statement that a higher life expectancy is associated with higher costs, which you trigger. – We reject this humiliating policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Fuhrmann, you don't know how pensioners feel when you say that you can't understand the excitement and protests against the reduction of the pension, and compare the loss of 10 € to whether you can buy three sausages or not. Shame for such statements! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You, Mrs Fuhrmann, have no idea what 10 € less means for pensioners! It is not a question of whether they can buy three sausages, but where they need to save more. The question is: Can I afford the cost of heating and light or the butter on the bread or medication that the cashier doesn't pay? But the bad thing about your unstained statements, Mrs. Fuhrmann, is that you mean it: How do we help disciples to rise up for you older ones? and so say goodbye to a generation agreement. Have you never heard of this? I, Mother, Father, for you, daughter, son – and then you for me!Unknown term type: "%s".? Did you forget that?- Oh, my God! A cynicism and a reverentialness which, Mrs Wendl, cannot be done with youthful recklessness and inexperience. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] ÖVP and FPÖ promote such a spirit of time with their unolidaric policy, and they also bear the responsibility for the hypocrisy of the heads of state of Salzburg and Carinthia, who – and I agree with Colleem Oellinger – have brought together the princes of the country. You, Federal Chancellor, have allowed people to be bitters and alms. They are responsible for the fact that this basic condition of existence, vital for all pensioners in Austria, has been misused for cheap vote in election periods. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] With this bitter electoral sugar you fooled the voters. They were abused by a Salzburg ÖVP summit candidate, who, if at all, will assume only short-term responsibility. But according to a Salzburg survey, the majority of Salzburgers have already given him a discharge, and they reject this planting of pensioners. Electoral Day is Payday, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Scheibner: Too bad you don't run!]] The billing for this unworthy policy will be held on 7 July. ==References== We, the SPÖ, and also the team around Gabi Burgstaller are for a price-secured pension for all Austrians regardless of election days. [[Abg. Scheibner: You have rejected the payouts!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e6845	The next speaker is Mr Molterer. It's also 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e6864	Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In a debate process which is probably right and well established in Parliament, it is only correct and fair to deal with the arguments put forward in this debate. But what does not serve the matter, ladies and gentlemen, is pure polemics, is the attempt to bring country elections here to the National Council, to the High House. People in this country just didn't deserve that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In politics, in all Western states, it is clear that two very important issues determine the social policy challenge: reform and safeguard the pension system and safeguard the health system. It is quite natural that this is being discussed. And in the light of a development that we are grateful to God – that people can enjoy a longer retirement, but unfortunately there is also the fact that birth figures are falling – it would simply be without responsibility not to deal with these issues. The difference is just: In Austria we decide and act on the fact that people in our country will be offered the future, the young, the working and the elderly! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We act because, unlike you, we have worked out a concept here for the opposition – and we know where we want to go. [[Abg. Sburny: This is what we fear!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] Mr Oellinger, perhaps Take this with you in your internal discussion process: We want to obtain the strong first pillar in the pension scheme. But that means that we just can't press against two things – but you do, we don't! –: This pillar can only remain strong if we reform, therefore the 2000 and 2003 pension reform, and if we harmonise, if we make the system sustainablely fair and financial. These are the demands, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: (make the corresponding hand movement to do so) Down it goes!]] In our concept, we clearly also provide for the extension of the second pillar, namely occupational pension provision. Therefore, a yes to operating pension funds and, of course, to the social policy milestone of this federal government, new to finish. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It's interesting, ladies and gentlemen: For many years the SPÖ has, red trade unionists have re-rejected the deal. [[Abg. That's a joke from you now that...!]] Now that it works and it is a real success story, there are very, very many who want to attach this spring to the hat, Mr President Vergestnich. In any case, we have re-established the process with the help of all the social partners, which is our social policy success. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. One: For years you have tried to prevent this!]] The pension scheme, ladies and gentlemen, must be based on a third stand – and those who deny it act irresponsibly – that is, on self-sufficiency. This government has created general provisions for the future. By the way: In a few years it will be the same as when finishing: All will try to make this model “their success model”. – On the other hand, we have implemented this, and it is now, Mr President, you know that – some 300 000 Austrians who benefit from this system of general provisions for the future. [[Abg. Oillingers: (make the corresponding hand movement to do so) those looking through their fingers!]] [[Abg. Sburny: And those who can't afford this?- Oh, my God!]] Our model is positive and correct. That's our model, that's our answer: not plump criticism, but we act! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] On the health system, ladies and gentlemen: Whoever says today that the health system is not getting more expensive just doesn't say the truth. Of course, it is getting more expensive because medical progress is increasing. We want this, and we also want to keep the health system freely accessible – and, of course, regardless of age and income. Therefore, it is also legitimate that – as the SPÖ trade unions have demanded; but obviously their memory is short – this is associated with a justified increase in the amount of KV. Health is worth something for us, and therefore we get this system healthy and fit and, of course, also accessible to older people freely and openly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Have you eaten a sausage cream today?]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, today this discussion is obviously used by you to advertise for popular desire. To this end: Your crocodiles are not suitable! In 1995 there was this “famous” Vrannitzky letter, in which the pensioners of Austria were simply told the untruth. Then you got out of the truth in 1997. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] In 1997 you increased your health insurance contributions. But do you know what you didn't do? – You didn’t raise the pensions! They from SPÖ therefore had a zero-pension round to answer! – And by the way, with the voice of Mr Fischer, now President-in-Office of the Council. That is loud and clear, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: You already have to answer for all this shame on your own!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] You make the SPÖ simple and simply a party desire – and we will test you: They go out and insecure the people. But today you have the chance: Voices To this request to ours, and then do something concrete for those people who need this help! A popular desire, on the other hand, costs € 2 million – tax money by the way! – and don't help the pensioners! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Stay here on the path of responsibility! Return where people are really being helped! Decide inside here and do not make polemics outside!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e7140	Mrs Glavischnig is speaking. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e7158	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr Klubobmann Molterer, I am also happy to argue with facts and facts, and I am happy to discuss them in an objective way. [[Call the ÖVP: But this is new!]] And that is why I would like to confront you with two figures now, but try to give you the impression again and again, as if this discussion was about a pension reform, something unchangeable, which must be as it is: that there are more and more pensioners on the one hand and less and less and less of births on the other side. They never ask, however, how the total amount of pension is distributed at all. In this context, I would like to confront you with two figures – and I would be interested in what you say about it: The top around 2 percent of pensioners receive about 10 percent of the pension amount. [[Abg. Scheibner: The SPÖ wants to raise that!]] The lowest, almost 30 percent, receive only about 7 percent of the pension amount. The question that matters today: If today a so-called repair is decided – so-called because that is essentially, even from your own ranks, this is so described, on the one hand, as an evil trick, and on the other hand, because this great failure of the social policy of ÖVP and FPÖ, which you have had in the past four years, cannot be repaired at all. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Since you, Mr. Klubobmann Molterer, have said the suspicion that a popular desire is being fought: I have the great suspicion that this law repair is made exclusively for election reasons. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. March there [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Call the Greens: It is Genauso!]] Let us take note of the policy of the past years of this government: What have you, in fact, done in the social field with regard to major issues such as justice? – It must be clearly stated that there have been some very great opportunities that you have clearly rejected. And one of these big questions and opportunities was the tax reform. Let us look at the figures of the lower pensioners, the major problems they have: Since the year 2000 a minus of 10 to 15 percent in the ASVG area above all! If you also ask the question of what this black and blue Federal Government has done in relation to a tax reduction, in order to relieve exactly the smallest pensioners, the answer can only be: Nothing! [[Call the ÖVP: That's wrong! Tax exemption up to...!]] And here, I think, the need for your social policy cannot go well – and that is what people feel! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Over the past four years, you have increased about 30 taxes and fees from ÖVP and FPÖ, which, of course, has an disproportionate impact on the smallest incomes and hits the worst! [[Call the ÖVP: Again, wrong!]] And you, too, with no cent, have relieved the smallest pensioners! That's your responsibility! At least we wouldn't have done it that way. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Other topic: this whole discussion on the harmonisation of the various pension systems. They are constantly trying by the coalition parties to give the impression that this so-called pension reform would have been done something for people under 35 years of age. – And that’s just not true! I have the suspicion – I have even the serious suspicion – that this pension harmonisation, a pension system for all, will never come under your government. For many other projects, ÖVP and FPÖ are incredibly fast; there is somehow “speed kills” the motto of this federal government. – The harmonisation of pension systems, on the other hand, is being postponed to the long-term! There is another dispute in the government and between the coalition parties, and I am eager to see when the FPÖ will fall next time. We already know all of this, is nothing new at all. At any rate, I have the very strong suspicion that you are not at all interested in this issue by the ÖVP. In this context, I would like to mention an experience from the Green/ÖDP negotiations on the formation of a government coalition. At that time you came from the ÖVP with the slogan: A pension system for everyone! In our negotiations, on the other hand, it was your party's declared goal to put just one billion euros out of the pension system in order to be able to implement a tax reform. And this one billion € from the tax reform now ends up by reducing corporate tax on companies, the stock companies, large and strong companies. And that's redistribution to the exact wrong side! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] These are facts, figures and data! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Under a successful social policy, we Greens are proposing a systematic poverty reduction. To date, I do not understand why the implementation of this very logical concept is to introduce a basic pension for all – by the way: whether they are mothers or not; at least for the liberal colleagues from Carinthia! – and the ASVG cover system should not be possible as a lid for all. This simply does not light me up in the face of all the redistributive problems. I would like to mention one last point because you, Mr Klubobmann Molterer, have argued here with the costs that cause popular desire. – I find it embarrassing how in recent years this house has been dealing with popular desires. And I find it embarrassing if you count costs here, which costs direct democracy! [[Abg. May. Molterer: Does the SPÖ not see any other chance? No self-confidence in the SPÖ?]] At the costs that have already been mentioned here today, the Kärntner State Captain makes about this inconceivable and humiliating cash payment: This is a fraction of what you have approved in recent weeks as a special party support for the elections, especially for the Carinthian election campaign! It's embarrassing!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e7338	The next speaker is Mr Scheuch. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e7372	Federal Chancellor! Appreciate members of the government! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning a few clarifications: Mrs. Scharer has mentioned a list of people receiving high pensions. This list could be extended, even with regard to the left half of the empire: Gusenbauer, Schieder, Einm, Nürnberger, Vergestnich. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Not with me!]] I think there are a lot of people who get a lot in politics and earn a lot. [[Call the SPÖ:Rosenstingl!]] This is something we have often discussed here. [[New call at the SPÖ:Rosenstingl!]] It was our liberals – and I would like to remind you that – who initiated this in 1997 and we were the first to vote against this protest! Who needed to put this thing to the end? It was our initiative, it was always us liberals who have worked to ensure that there is equal rights! Mrs. Glawischnig – it is, I believe, a coincidence that we are talking over and over again – now you have specially reported to Carinthia to make an election campaign there, so from Vienna to Seeboden have reported, candidate in Klagenfurt and want to change Carinthias, improve Carinthias. Mrs Colleagues, I think it is wrong to be a Carinthian – and as such I see you here – and to approach the country – Mrs Trunk is doing the same thing – only to make this country bad for Carinthia! [[Contradict with the Greens]] Carinthia doesn't deserve to be made bad by you! Be proud of your home! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. ==References====External links== We'll be back on March.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mr. Gusenbauer, you may have read the interesting article in the press about your relationship with your mother. That's a very interesting thing. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: This is a nuisance!]] I can quote from this: ‘Less is known to the children’s children’s normalized duty to support their fathers and mothers in need.’ [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: I do!]] And on top of that: “For people who have the heart on the right side, a thing that understands itself. Exceptions confirm the rule.’ [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: What do you want to say?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] I also have a mother at home, just like everyone else here. [[Call:No, my job is working]] You know what? – I’m proud of my mother! [[Calls:We are also]] She raised me, she made two righteous people out of me and my brother, even if there were to be other opinions. You know what? – I would like to thank all the millions of mothers and fathers in Austria for the mothers and fathers who made us all righteous people! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In fact, your mother does not deserve, Mr Gusenbauer – I do not know her, but I do not think she has deserved it – to be drawn to an election pole because of pension heights or non-existent heights. [[Abg. Sburny: What does that mean by "electional-Polemik"?]] I mean, that's not the right access. Together we should ensure that the older generation has an outcome in Austria. Of course, there are different pensions. Mrs. Glawischnig, obviously there are people with less pension and people with more pension. [[Abg. Sburny: But that's not the most part in Austria!]] [[Further calls to the Greens and the SPÖ.]] But this is also partly due to the fact that people have paid more or less for their pension. It would really be unfrozen to stand here and demand that everyone get the same amount of pension. I am convinced that this would be the wrong access, because the different rates of deposit make up different pension levels. Return to this SPÖ's listing, in which it reads: Today, the SPÖ in Parliament makes a request for an increase of 0.8% in pensions. – This is true in Kärntner Newspapers. A colleague of mine has already quoted Karl Blecha. I would like to mention Dr Ambrozy here, who is in Carinthia as a SPÖ candidate for this country election. Mr. Dr. Ambrozy, if he's on the 7th. March the choice will lose a claim to a pension of 14 500 € per month. [[Call the liberals. Look at that!]] For Dr. Ambrozy, who demands an increase in pensions by 0.8 percent, this would mean a year – I figured it out – 1 137 € more! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bures.]] After please read this listing! Obviously you don't control your Carinthian friends! “For all pensions,” said Ambrozy’s demand literally! This would be for the Dr. Ambrozy 1 137 € more pension per year! ==References====External links== It is clear that it will be very urgent if it is sent to the political pension. [[Abg. Wittauer: This is a shame!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As very often criticism of Dr. Haider's disbursement to Kärtner pensioners comes from you, I would like to tell you: These payouts were and are good! Faith You're telling me: As long as in various social insurance institutions SPÖ trade unionists may block or prevent payouts, it is good I mean that all Carinthians have the opportunity to go to country captain Dr. Haider, to the responsible agencies to get this money because they need it urgently. [[Abg. It can't be there yet!]] And it is certainly reasonable that these Carinthians get this money. Last time I was here and I took an account, and I want to do this again today. 30 years of SPÖ government – all know –: 2,000 billion debts! This money – I can only repeat it once again – divided into the pensioners, so that I have really “taught” would mean quite clearly: We could afford €70 000 per pensioner if there were no such waste policy of SPÖ. 70,000 € per pensioner! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Oillingers: You want to afford that...!]] This is a lot of money, ladies and gentlemen, a lot of money for which we now have to bear the responsibility. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] However, we liberals have taken up this as a government party, and we will ensure that pensions...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e7638	Talk time!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e7653	... will continue to be secured in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e7681	Ladies and gentlemen! We have agreed that we will continue this debate for 60 minutes. For this purpose, a “wine hour” shall apply: 21 minutes per ÖVP and SPÖ, 8 minutes Free, 10 minutes Green. In this sense, the next hour's speaking time will now be distributed. – Actual corrections will be approved after 1 p.m. Mrs Silhavy has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e7702	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Vice-President of ÖVP and FPÖ was written in the master book [[Call:I don't have one]] You, too, will hopefully reach the retirement age, and you too will not want to live in this phase of life any alms of national leaders who are just on the go, or who want to live by beggars. [[Abg. Wittauer: That’s not a “Alms!]] So stay with other people – what you want to imagine! – to what is reasonable for you too! Get off your high horse! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, we point out the most intense contempt for human beings, the violation of the dignity of the individual person you show with this alms policy! They rush people forward – and we reject that, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They from ÖVP and FPÖ have not applied for an increase in pensions, but they feed people with a one-time payment, continuing to rob them of the pension you have made over the last three years! Next year, these people will be back and will come twice as much to the handcushion! – That is what we condemn, ladies and gentlemen. That's not fair, it's not fair policy! This is a policy that the older generation in our country has not deserved! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The chances of an honest repair and thus a fair deal with the pensioners have been flawed. You have taken a fair offer from pensioners that we have made by rejecting our request for an actual pension increase. Shame on it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Call the SPÖ:Yes!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The fact is that pensioners in this country have been able to afford less from year to year since 2000. On the other hand, we are acting! The fact is that compensation beneficiaries turn to us because they can't even afford heating again. We have tabled a request here, but what have you done, ladies and gentlemen? - You postponed him. A heating allowance will bring something in the summer if people need it now as long as it's cold! This is a despicable policy, and we reject it. No speech of necessary help for the people where it is appropriate, and that is the worst, ladies and gentlemen. Why don't you deal with the situation of the people? I believe Mrs Turković-Wendl is together with pensioners and all people feel comfortable there, because they don't have anything to do with them – perhaps with some noble heir! I invite Mrs Turković-Wendl to go through the city and talk to pensioners. They will explain to her what they can no longer afford this year, what they could afford in the year 2000. That's really... [[Call to the ÖVP:The SPÖ membership contribution!]] You can eat quietly here and make fun of yourself. But do you know how many people think about whether they can still be at a club because they need the money and because you're running a policy that people can no longer afford it? You think that's funny? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Maybe we're to blame if the SPÖ...?]] The affected people truly do not find this funny, but they are really affected! It has already been said today that you are always acting as those who protect the small pensioners. You don't do that anyway, as we have already demonstrated today. Let me give you a few figures. The Federal Chancellor is no longer here; Mrs State Secretary, please listen to the figures now. In the economically bad years 1996 to 1999, pensioners in this country received a real increase in pensions by 0.43 percent; God does not know how high, I admit. But in the years 2000 to 2003, since you were in the government and also Mrs Ferrero-Waldner, the policy decided to take part in the Council of Ministers, the pensioners have had to take a loss of value of 4 percent! [[Abg. Neudeck: But President Fischer has been at SPÖ for the last 30 years!]] 4 per cent minus in the real pension rate, since this Federal Government is at work, and Mrs Ferrero-Waldner has always voted in favour of this – with us it was a real increase! [[Abg. Neudeck: Fischer has contributed to debt policy!]] That is the difference in politics, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But this has disproved your head! The Minister of Social Affairs!]] Now let me tell you something, Mr Scheibner: The increase in minimum pensions in the 1970s amounted to 158 percent, 47 percent in the 1980s, 49 percent in the 1990s – 30 years of social-democratic government, you are right! [[Abg. Neudeck: How was the index?]] ÖVP/FPÖ government: 6 percent – this is your social conscience. You should be really ashamed, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Calculate us after 30 years!]] In conclusion, I would like to draw your attention to Conrad Seidl’s column in the “standard” because you always say: Whoever helps quickly helps twice. Mr Seidl said: This certainly applies to acute disasters – floods, fires, hunger disasters – but it does not apply elsewhere. Otherwise, it is political activism, which does more harm than benefits. – That’s exactly what you do with your policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e7899	Mr Gusenbauer spoke in favour of an actual correction. I would ask that the facts to be corrected and the facts actually be compared.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e7920	Mr President. Member of the European Parliament Walch claimed that the FPÖ had applied for the abolition of political pensions in 1997. Rather, it is true that the FPÖ voted against in the House in 1997 in the context of the reform of political relations and the abolition of political pensions. [[Oh, call at the SPÖ.]] [[Contradict with the liberals.]] Secondly, I would ask Mr Scheuch to refrain from slandering my mother.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e7976	The next speaker is Mr Donabauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e7994	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Those who read through the report on the social situation of Austrians will find that we actually have a number of groups that are at risk or plagued by poverty. These are especially families with more children, these are single women, they are long-term unemployed, these are immigrants for whom we have not all found the right solution. It is also true, however, that a small group of pensioners belong to it, namely those who live with the compensation allowance and receive a benefit mainly from there. We need to talk about these things. The Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has been able to document to you today in his presentation that we have been able to raise by almost 21 percent these smallest pensions of the compensation beneficiaries in recent years. Therefore, do not talk about poverty, but speak of a failure: You didn't do that, and now it's done! These are facts and facts you need to talk about. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Another thing: Of course, I know that the social issue and, above all, the pension issue is a favorite topic of social democracy, which I have known since the 1960s and 1970s. But now it's obvious why you need the topic: because there are elections and because you don't have any topics! You do not have any issues on which you can really deal with the citizen, so you are misusing this discussion. Today, several accusations have been made that the adjustments in the 1980s or 1990s were larger than they were today. Sage It is fair to say that the inflation rate in these years has been dramatically high! This is not a very good policy which you have left behind and which is still making problems for us today, and we have to do a lot of good because we have to take over and deal with debt. These are all things that need to be talked about in this context. We are actually talking about the so-called reduction; it is about increasing health insurance contributions. In her contribution, my colleague Wendl-Turkovic said something very impressively, which must be repeated and said again and again: We thus secure the health insurance system for all Austrians! We know from the social insurance companies that the coverage rate for pensioners is less than 40 percent. Please, how long do you want to ask the young people all the money we need to keep this good system that we can compare with all the other countries? – Haven You finally have the courage to look the boy in your eyes and tell them that you really want to go a very bad line with them. That's not what we're going to do. We have the power to tell people that we cannot continue this kind of policy and will not continue. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: You're putting people in front of you! That's the bad thing!]] What bothers me is not so much the polemic – although it also disturbs – but above all the disrespect. I have always had great respect and respect for my parents. But that mothers must insist that their pension decisions, their pension notes be presented to the public, and that they do not say the whole truth – that the whole family income of the other family, the spouse, the father will be silent – that is inappropriate! Stop making such a policy. [[Abg. Silhavy: We want independent pensions, unlike you!]] That is, please, not appropriate for a proper political culture! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You're exposed from the SPÖ! If the party president Dr. Gusenbauer mentalises that he really wants to carry this popular desire to the public, then that already has its reason, and that is what the newspapers write. The reason is that – as a newspaper writes for example –: Those who, like the SPÖ, have for many years prevented necessary reforms under the pressure of the trade union are unbelievable if they now act as pensioners. - Quote. Mr Nürnberger, I remember 1997: Pension reform – your party would have made a proper reform with us, we were done with all the negotiations, but you have prevented it. And today you want to go here and say that you are the great savior and reformer? – That, please, is not all right, and we reject that! There is still a lot to say, but the speaking time does not allow it.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e8068	I now have the stenographic protocol of Mrs Melitta Trunk's speech. This shows that in this speech the German Chancellor was apostrophized as a “unblemished poker player”. In accordance with Article 102 of the Rules of Procedure, I give an order for this wording. Mrs Lichtenberger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e8107	Ladies and gentlemen! Today's debate on pensions and this very strange request made here by the government groups does not take place separately from the social reality of pensioners, although many people from ÖVP and FPÖ want to give this impression. I'm telling you, the pensioners are really upset. Never in recent months have so many older people approached me and articulated their anger, anger and helplessness toward this government policy. Mr Donabauer, I would like to tell you the following: [[Abg. Donabauer: Please!]] Many of these people have shown me their pension decisions with the desire to quote here from the speaker's desk how much or how little they get and how much they have been taken away. I should like to quote by name from her pension note – people have wanted it themselves because it is so outrageous because they are so helpless and because they are so angry at this policy of the government, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] But this outrage cannot cover one. In this two-packerl, which is discussed today, something is hidden, which deserves at least equal number of emotions for the future, namely your citizen card. What you plan and provide with this citizen card – this social security card, this e-card, as always you want to call it – is the total surveillance state, ladies and gentlemen! You hide it behind the pension debate because you're ashamed – and you're right to be ashamed of it! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They of the coalition parties do it again today as they do in the Committee. There was an own-initiative proposal in the Committee, which could not be discussed before, for example, in the Data Protection Council and which included the major changes to the so-called e-card, which are extremely important for the future. You no longer have a social security card, which should facilitate data processing in this area through the electronics, but you have now created a citizen card that can also be used to retrieve and store social security data. Ladies and gentlemen! That's something you shouldn't underestimate. First of all, the social insurance companies are now paying the citizen's card, which has become too expensive for you to introduce. And second: This data network is no longer about their social security card, their social security number and the common data there, but all of this now suddenly lives in the Ministry of the Interior. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the way to the overall surveillance state! I'll tell you: You have already shown this when we discussed the educational documentation. There too, data security and data protection were no longer guaranteed. They are also contrary to the idea that the European level has had in relation to the social security card, namely that this should be focused solely on this area, and therefore the social security number must also be printed out outside, although in reality the whole is a data network on a card that can already, through online access, cause an unreasonable data chaos. You all who use a computer know how viruses and worms are currently becoming the main problem for computer users. It is not possible to ensure adequate security here. But what is planned of you in the future, ladies and gentlemen? – Your vision is contrary to data protection, diametrically! You want a card on which you can, in case of doubt, retrieve everything from the school notes to the diseases and the citizen's data. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the “glass man”, we reject it, and that is the strictest! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to conclude by saying: The fact that the Data Protection Council has been completely eliminated on this issue is a scandal that will continue to occupy us in the near future! This Data Protection Council, which you have already coloured, has behaved very carefully anyway, precisely because ÖVP employees make a political representative in it. But the decisive thing is, ladies and gentlemen: Not even the Data Protection Council has been able to handle this data protection scandal in good time. This must concern us, because the “glass man” must not become the future in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e8166	The next speaker is Mrs Rossmann. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e8184	Mr President. Federal Minister! Unfortunately, Mr Gusenbauer is no longer here, but I would nevertheless like him to point out that the limitation of political relations – I would just like to remind you – has been achieved and the then government parties ÖVP and SPÖ have only taken the initiative because the pressure of the liberals and the pressure of the public had become so strong. Above all, it was no longer to be explained that 80 percent of the parliamentary salary could be retired after ten years. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We therefore voted against it at the time, because we had tabled our own proposal, which was much further, because it was still too little for us what you decided at the end of the day. We called it the first step at that time. [[Abg. Scheibner: (in the direction of SPÖ) That you keep us from voting against it is really strong!]] So keep from saying that we didn't agree, that's, I think, a rooster, that's incredible! Unfortunately, my colleague Silhavy is not here either; apparently the stomachs are roaring. I would like to suggest to the colleague, as she encourages the heating aid, that we take a look at how this is done in Carinthia – I have to bring the Carinthian example again: In Carinthia, the heating grant of €72 has already been paid to the minimum pensioners, paid to the social assistance recipients, but also paid to all compensation recipients. If you look at the website of the social information of the city of Vienna in Vienna, there is quite lapidar: “At present, a general heating grant for people with minimum income is not planned.” – There is no reason why something would be planned or perhaps planned. It's just not planned, and that's quite lapidar. This is how you deal with the most socially weak in the city of Vienna! That is also said here. And because today, in the debate, the words “bitter”, “damaging” and “alms” have already fallen: I was present when the pensioners received this disbursement, this one-time payment including the 13th and 14th pension differences. The people were happy, they were overjoyed! Many could already take the money with them for their relationship, for their neighbors. It was not everyone who came there to pick it up, but with authority it was possible to take this amount also for acquaintances and relatives. The head of state has extended it throughout all the district teams, so that no one has to stand snake anywhere. But there was no one present from you, especially from the Social Democrats. On the contrary: They were at the door of the country house, the state government, and there distributed your fear pamphlets. One of these has already been quoted by Mr Dolinschek today, namely the one in which self-preserve is spoken of by the doctor of €10, which speaks of €800 in a cancer treatment – in a letter from Ambrozy to the pensioners of Carinthia! I must say that you obviously confuse Carinthia and Austria with German relations, because that is exactly what German Chancellor Schröder has now implemented. [[Abg. Keck: But this is happening here in Austria!]] I was in Germany recently. If you talk to someone on the street, get into a taxi, get out of the hotel receptionist – there's no one who doesn't cheat on Schröder's social policy in Germany! That's it. And you obviously confuse Germany with Austria, especially with Carinthia. That's unheard of! Leave You're the one who's scared! This is not just unfair, but you are insecure the population with it, and that is to be deeply rejected.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e8245	Mr Nürnberger came to speak. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e8263	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, it has been used here a number of times today, for example by Mr Walch and Mr Molterer, for the expression "untruth" in connection with other speakers. I hope if I also use this expression not to get an order, because I have to say first of all: Mr Donabauer, for the time being you have said the untruth here if you have accused me of preventing the reform in 1997. [[Abg. Donabauer: I was there!]] I am glad that the current ÖAAB-Obmann, colleague Neugebauer, came into the first row, because he hears me very well. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that at the time there were talks between Schüssel and Khol for your group and the then Clubobmann Kostelka and me for the SPÖ Group. This was exclusively a question of civil servants. In the Hohenstaufengasse, today's ÖAAB-Obmann, who has always said: Don't go! Don't go! You can't! You have not been able to enforce yourself in your own party. If I make an accusation today – but trade union solidarity means something to me; I am not one who falls down when he gets a prize for it somewhere – that I made a mistake, then that I made a mistake for Mr Neugebauer. That is what I am doing today, but I have not prevented anything from happening, Mr Donabauer. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Scheuch, I give you the right, and I say to you that your mother has certainly been trying and has also made it possible to raise ordinary children, but I make every mother in this country who is trying to make ordinary people out of her children. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: I said that!]] Only do we have the moral responsibility of our disciples, the obligation that these mothers have a financially secured evening of life, that they should not be reduced by pensions and that they should not go to the head of state for a few euros. The mothers didn't deserve it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mr. Federal Minister, I can't spare you either: According to current knowledge, you too may have said the untruth. [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Chief.]] I'll tell you that right now. You didn't get a letter from the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse, which is addressed to you? - Maybe you can show it to me. [[Federal Minister Mag. He's in his papers.]] So you didn't get a letter. I'll hold that one. I know who got the letter. Mr Molterer, the Federal Chancellor has always spoken about the social-democratic trade unions. – So, please, you yourself have read from this letter that this has happened on the suggestion and request of the control assembly of the Vienna regional hospital register, and in the control assembly the employers have a majority. You, Mr Minister, will hopefully not assume that we have a red majority of employers in the Vienna district hospital. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Do you have a problem with the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse?]] Mr. Klubobmann Molterer, there is no such thing as that. So, Mr. Klubobmann, these were your esteemed party friends in the control assembly who made this suggestion. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Nuremberger is distanced from the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse!]] I don't distance myself, but it was from the control assembly. Do you know why the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse, for example, has come into a financial precarious situation? – Because the effects you have decided by law also in 2004 amount to €116.9 million – which is more than 1.5 billion Schilling – for services for which we are not responsible but which you have divided up to the Vienna regional hospital register. This includes, for example, unemployed people, pay contributions, health insurance takes over federal payments for hospitals, civil servants, reduced contributions, contribution basis, reductions for the economy, longer payment period for service providers and the like. You have thus relieved the budget, Mr. Klubobmann. If you had not taken these measures, the Vienna regional health fund would be in a better financial situation. My 3 minutes speaking time is around, therefore a final sentence: You will be billing for this policy for the first time on 6th or 7th. March in Carinthia and Salzburg, and you'll still see, Mr. Klubobmann, how many people will sign the pension people's desire. You get the invoice – earlier than you love!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e8370	The next speaker is Mr Drunkl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e8388	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I may return to the facts. Mrs Silhavy, every statistics is worth as much as one interprets from her. I can remind you: Both the 2003 pension increase and the 2004 pension increase were actually above the inflation rate. In 2003 there were 0.5 plus 1.5 percent, there are 2.0 percent, i.e. significantly higher than the inflation rate, in 2004 it is 1.5 percent, which is estimated by the WIFO to be 1.2 percent in 2004, which is also higher than the inflation rate. [[Abg. Silhavy: You first had to make a repair, Mr. Colleague!]] Their crocodiles are therefore not appropriate. But I would like to admit one thing: It is true that the increase in health insurance contributions, about which there was a great deal of reference here, has led to differences in small pensions. But because this federal government is important for social security and because this federal government does not push away the social issue, it will be able to compensate for these small differences, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Silhavy: That's not true! This is a one-time payment and not a compensation!]] [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: This is this! But what's next year?]] No single pensioner will suffer a disadvantage, dear Mrs Silhavy. You know that just as I do. I therefore ask you not to argue with half-truths, but simply to stick to the whole truth. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: What do one-off amounts mean?]] No pensioner will have a disadvantage, nor will Mr Gusenbauer's wife, you know, even though she has also become a victim of the half-truth propaganda of the SPÖ, because she has to stand up and say: I only have a pension of less than 400 €, I lose. But she did not say – and no one said that, but that would have been the whole truth – that the spouse had a much higher pension and therefore had far exceeded the compensation rate. [[Abg. Silhavy: It's about the small pensions!]] So half-truth propaganda. Painful, heartbreaking, embarrassing, ladies and gentlemen, Take note of this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Does she have a small pension or does she have none?]] She has no disadvantage. This disadvantage will be offset, you know. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: What is next year? – No answer! Talk about next year, not this year!]] This government solves problems. It creates compensation where it is necessary, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. What's the opposition doing? – You scare people, you spread a atrocities propaganda. They create a generation conflict with methods of class struggle, ladies and gentlemen. And only that is what you want, because otherwise you would not put a term like “pension harvesting” in your mouth. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: What is next year?]] I really ask you, and you as a lawyer should know, Mr Puswald. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: I know, that's why I ask you?]] Robust is a crime, and you should not put that word in your mouth in this regard. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: You shouldn't do it!]] We should really beware and accept what the Federal Chancellor has said here: Let's be careful with terminology. It's useful to you and us as well. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: You shouldn't commit the crime!]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: This is huge!]] You're not even shy about taking pictures from the fifties and maybe don't know – or do you know? – that was the first robber of the coal robbers from the Nazi era. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: What is next year?]] And exactly the same picture is filed in Klagenfurt today. By chance or not? I'll make you responsible. Try to learn from history. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: (in the direction of the speaker) Learn from history and avoid the mistakes you are making next year!]] The glorious worker or pensioner leader Blecha, who has already been apostrophized here today, who has been stumbled over the “Lucona” committee and nevertheless is referring to a pension of well over 12 000 €, stands at the top of a pensioner’s popular desire, which once again only has the goal of making the old people afraid, and it just hurts me when in politics the fear becomes the method. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: What is next year?]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: You want to say that we're scaring people?]] Remember one: Whoever sows fear will reap hatred, and at the latest when it comes to taking a closer look at your proposals, ladies and gentlemen, from the SPÖ. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: What is next year?]] [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: What is next year? How are pensioners doing next year?]] The SPÖ was always the one who wanted to increase health insurance contributions in order to reorganise the system. - You don't know anything about it today. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: What is next year? Who will compensate for pensions next year?]] The SPÖ was the one who wanted to introduce 10 percent pensioner tax. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: What is next year? Who will increase pensions next year?]] - You don't know anything about it today. The SPÖ was the only party to set up a social minister who did not raise pensions. - You don't know anything about it today. It is a strange form of oblivion that suddenly affects whole groups and not just individuals; a very interesting form. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And to your popular desire I can tell you one thing – yes, yes – the editorials in the individual newspapers tell you: [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: You congratulate us on this!]] They misuse a popular right as a party because you yourself are unable to rise as a party here. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Don't abuse, you need! That's a difference!]] And I can tell you something: What the SPÖ is doing now is simple and simple pensionist planting. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: That hurts you!]] Read on in the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten”! There are also many other documents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e8782	The next speaker is Mr Keck. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e8800	Mr President. Mr Sozialminister! High house! In July 2003, you, the Vice-President of the ÖVP and the FPÖ, decided here in the High House of Pension Robber, and with this you take away massive money from future pensioners, who have earned them through decades of work. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Hold the robber!]] At the same time, you have 1. In January 2004 there was also a significant increase in existing pensions and even a reduction in net income for the micro-pensionists. And only after the pressure of the opposition and the public had to be shaken back, and this debacle now has to be repaired in need. All this shows, ladies and gentlemen, that you still have nothing left for the pensioners. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A further proof was given yesterday by Mr Fuhrmann: She said she has no understanding of the compensation payments, because around €10 you can buy three sausages, and they don't understand why you have to turn every euro twice. This statement can only be made if one has never earned money with physically strenuous work, with physically strenuous and often health-damaging work, just as the micro-pensionists have done for decades, thus building up the prosperity of our country and the prosperity for our youth today, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Fuhrmann – you have to say that here – would not be so removed and non-worldly today if her parent and grandparents generation hadn't built for her this pleasant nest. Mrs Fuhrmann is talking about shopping, and I have to ask her if she has been shopping herself in recent times, because because of her statement it is recognized that she has no idea of the food prices in Austria. If it can buy by 10 € three sausages, then a sausage cream costs 3.33 €. And that's such a sausage cream, that's a luxury sausage cream of Mrs. Fuhrmann at €3.33, ladies and gentlemen! [[The speaker holds a semi-trailer, which is filled with extra sausage very thick]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Mr. Scheibner, I'm hungry! Give me the sausage cream!]] And what I've got here – look at it very well – is a sausage cream that micro-pensionists can afford, but not every day, but when it goes up, maybe three or four times a year. [[The speaker shall hold a semi-trailer, which is only filled with an extra sausage disc]] This shows that you have no connection to the pensioners and you really don't care about the pensioners. I therefore call on Mrs Fuhrmann to apologize to these people for the hard-wearing statements she has made! Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, show that you do not share the ideology of your colleague, and agree to our request so that pensioners do not have any net losses. I can only do one thing at a time: I am giving these sausages to the government, because these sausages, these luxury sausages, represent the clientele you represent, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Haupt, I give them to you in representation for the government. [[The speaker lays a thickly-occupied sausage in front of Federal Minister Mag. It's the main government bank.]] – On the other hand, these sausages are the sausages of the pensioners. It stands for the clientele we represent, for which we stand. [[The speaker also puts a low-occurrence sausage in front of Federal Minister Mag. It's the main government bank.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: This is a “consumer” sausage!]] And now, Mr. Federal Chancellor Schüssel can draw clear comparisons as it looks: Luxury for your party – the pensioners we represent.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e8927	Mr President, I am going to confiscate the two sausages immediately. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Mr Scheibner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's The remaining speaking time of the liberals is 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e8954	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The last part of the debate has shown how seriously the whole thing is taken. I don't want to evaluate this comparison here at all, but with sausages, that you juggle around there with food, you should consider that well. Ladies and gentlemen! This debate has indeed been overturned by the Social Democrats. Among other things, Mr Nürnberger – who, like many others, is no longer present – has accused the Social Minister of saying the untruth because he has cited here a decision of the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse, which has been concerned with raising contributions rates for health insurance for pensioners in particular. He said he can't have a letter at all. I have it here and speak about it because, in accordance with our agreement, the Minister has no more speaking time. ==References====External links==* Official website A letter was sent to the Federal Ministry of Social Security on October 2001, and this decision by the Board of Directors of the Wiener Landkreisskrankenkasse was also included in the annex to this letter. It criticises – this is quite interesting, in the Vienna regional health fund, that is, mostly occupied by social democrats or by the social democrats, it is criticised – that this health insurance coverage can no longer be accepted in the future by pensioners who use the system – I quote – in particular – in the health system and therefore a decision is taken that there should be a statutory, at least 50 percent coverage of pensioners' insurance benefits by contributions. - Quote. – 50 percent! You know, it's 38 percent right now. What would have been the increase in contributions if we had done what your trade unionists, your social democrats would have called for in the Vienna regional health fund, ladies and gentlemen?- Oh, my God! [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Dr. stupid.]] This is your policy that you decide something else in these bodies than you are asking for media-active speech from the speaker's desk here. But then don't accuse our Social Minister that he would have spoken the untruth! Second point: It is truly grotesque if Mr Gusenbauer – who is no longer there – accuses the liberals that they would have been against the abolition of political pensions. This can only be referred more to the cabaret. The Villacher Fasching has already been transferred yesterday, but perhaps it still has some side effects. In the hurry, I have only drawn out four requests from the liberals from 1996, which were about the complete abolition of all political privileges in the pension system. And that was the reason why we did not agree to the 97s reform because you have perpetuated and cemented the privileges that existed at that time and because these pensions are still possible now – at least for those who had these claims. [[Abg. No, no, no!]] [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Dr. stupid.]] [[Abg. Oils: You're to blame for this!]] And that's how it goes. Also in the debate: A rapid, a good, efficient measure by the head of the Carinthian state will be declared alms distribution. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: He has 2 000 € more, Mr. Landeshuptmann!]] Who has prevented you, for example, from giving pensioners quick, unbureaucratic and efficient access to these funds in Vienna or Burgenland? [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: He takes this from the Landesbudget, which is no longer available!]] But there you had no interest in, because you wanted to continue to arouse fears, because you wanted to continue using this pension theme for your party policy. [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: ( towards SPÖ) Don't make any calls!]] For example, Mrs Silhavy, in Mr Ambrozy's pension letters, in which fear is aroused. No one but the Social Democratic German Federal Government is thinking of stopping the pensioner for every doctor's visit 10 €. That's the policy you're making: Shame fear and do not implement anything concrete. We'll secure the pensions. That is good and right and will continue to be the policy of this government in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e9072	The next speaker is Mrs Csörgits. The clock is set to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e9090	Mr President. Federal Minister! I would first like to refer to Mr Walch's statement, which unfortunately is no longer in the hall. He has quoted that an appointment has been postponed at a meeting of the Pension Insurance Institute, which is also concerned with the area of pension repair, as you put it. I can say here that this item on the agenda cannot therefore be put on the agenda very well, because it is up to that date, namely 4. March, there is no meeting of the Federal Council at which this matter is being dealt with. I do not want to be sore in wounds, but we know that it is often not quite clear to the liberals what voting behaviour they have in the Federal Council. - That's what I'm talking about. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Klubobmann Scheibner – even he is no longer in the hall – has said that we are spreading fear. I think it is legitimate and our right to draw people's attention to it. People in this country are afraid because they notice that they have less in the wallet. The elections have always focused on pensioners, but now many of them have the impression that they are no longer thought of at all, but that, on the contrary, only measures are being taken because by chance there are elections in two federal states. – Many of my previous speakers have already said that. If these elections did not take place, then no repair would take place. You know, I'm pretty slow enough that it's always said something happened. - That's all right. You make mistakes, and you have to correct them. But I'm telling you: The whole work of this federal government is a single mistake and very soon it is repaired! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As I am particularly concerned with mistakes, I would also like to say that, thanks to this pension, pensioners not only have less money on the wallet, they also have to bear a variety of burdens thanks to this German government, for example, the removal of the contribution-free co-insurance of childless women in health insurance. I can remind you that there has been an unsocial taxation of accident pensions, which then had to be repaired afterwards. The introduction of a leisure accident insurance scheme has not resulted in any new benefits at all. The cynical thing is that this amount is also deducted from care payers. I think it's just a sign that a lot of mistakes happen. In view of such mistakes, it is time for us to make a clear sign. The Federal Government has an expiry date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e9154	Mr Wöginger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e9175	Mr President. Federal Minister! The background of this debate is actually in the perspective of the 2003 compensation payments. It is all known here that the balance was paid monthly for the months January to September, while the compensation for the last quarter was made in the form of a one-off payment in October. If you compare January 2003 with January 2004, it is actually logical that, despite a 1.5 percent increase in pensions, the net income of small pensions is 2, 5 or 10 € less, because there is no longer any balance in 2004. But if you also compare December 2003 with January 2004, then you will see that there is only one plus and no minus up to 780 €, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! To get back to this look, we decide today this one-time extraordinary grant of 0.6 percent for all pensions up to €780. This is an act of fairness and solidarity among the generations, and we also, ladies and gentlemen, confess to this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! They have deliberately shaken this debate and spread fear and horror among the older generation, as if they were taken away from pensions. I would like to point out at this point that the older generation also understands the increasing cost of health care, because our seniors know on the one hand that we have one of the world's best health systems and, on the other, see how it is in Germany. Here are some facts: German pensioners pay doubles to the health insurance fund – around 10 percent of the pension for health and care insurance. In Austria it is 4.25% and next year respectively 4.75%. In addition, there is a fee for each doctor's visit up to €10, and there is no pension adjustment in Germany. Ladies and gentlemen! These are dramatic cuts and cuts, and this comparison makes us sure. Finally, it should be noted that this adjustment expresses solidarity between generations. The SPÖ, with its proposal against the youth, wants to drive a chain between young and old once again, because the boys are the ones to pay for it. – They do not say where they take the money for these increases! In addition, we also need to pay off those debts that you left us. This federal government and we from the Austrian People's Party will not allow this, ladies and gentlemen, to happen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e9230	I call Mr Spindelberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e9248	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Although the carnival has been officially over since yesterday, I believe that the amendment we have tabled today is also a late fascism. If for this amendment the lapidar justification is given that synergies between the new chip card and the citizen card are used and he only serves to better coordinate this, then the The Austrians, in good Steirisch, will “lay” knowingly, have no idea. As Mr Wöginger has just said, we do not need to “sour” anything, because I think this presentation is more than worrying. Typically for you is the veiled procedure, which you are using, an amendment so brilliant content, which includes very sensitive information on data protection for all citizens of our country, not even to carry out the review and also the attempt to shut down the Data Protection Council, although, according to the applicable legal situation on issues of the e-card, it must in principle have the opportunity to consult with the government within a reasonable period of time. It is really typical for you to just drive over it and wipe out legitimate concerns. It's just scandalous! What is the point of this amendment? – On the one hand, it is about being able to transfer data from the chip card to the citizen card – and on the other hand – with the simple argument that it is not reasonable for the Austrians to have inserted two cards. In my opinion, it is simply absurd for such important personal data to be anchored there in the future. It has even aroused errors in the “ARGE data” and the Data Protection Council, but you don’t care about these objections, like anything else. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] There are objections that even point to the fact that the card solution is not only contrary to the eGovernment law you have decided, but also to the requirements of the EU Social Insurance Card, and that the future online survey of doctors is subject to data protection law and safety concerns. What does it look like? – We are the only EU country in which this data is requested. I really wonder how to check what the doctor will do with the data in future. Who controls that? Who pays the extra cost of this system? You just go over it and say you don't talk about it. What the data protection is about, you have already suffered a belly spot in front of the Constitutional Court under the Military Power Act, and now this story too! When it comes to protecting citizens, this issue should not be dealt with in this way. There George Orwell’s “glass man ” was still harmless! Ladies and gentlemen! Such methods, which serve totalitarian monitoring, we reject quite clearly!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e9309	The next speaker is Mrs Grander. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e9327	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer to the health side of the discussion. It is about maintaining and ensuring a high quality health system for all – for the elderly generation, for children, for chronically ill and for disabled people. Today, health care services have not yet been provided 30 years ago when I entered the nursing profession. These benefits are available to the entire Austrian population, regardless of their income and age, and this should remain the case. It is also of great importance for the older generation to be able to decide independently. Also older people, as always mentioned, want to decide for themselves whether to allow surgery or not in case of hip operations or other prosthetic treatments such as knee prostheses. I think this freedom of choice must simply remain, so that the situation does not occur at some point when someone becomes a bitter, whether he can get an artificial hip or an artificial knee joint. It is a very important thing for the dignity of man that he can continue to decide for himself. Furthermore, for us the generation treaty and also the commitment to solidarity with young people is of course. – This has been addressed more often today. There are always arguments from people who say they were not sick all the time, but this solidarity is just important. I think you should be happy that up to 90 people have the chance to be really healthy. The generation contract must therefore be fully understood and not selectively. Demographic development has a great influence. I think we can all understand that, and there are data. I demand that the problem solution is before the generation conflict. Many people know very well that this is a question of the future and not a policy aspect. I therefore urge everyone to leave the unworthy way of expression. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Personally, it's very bad if you're constantly talking about feeling, heartless, alms, scraps, abspensions et cetera, although I'm in Plenum has become aware that I am still “spent” out of my childhood in connection with the dispensation in the church and would thus be positively occupied. – Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e9378	The next speaker was Mr Riepl. The remaining speaking time of the SPÖ club is 3 minutes. So this is not a voluntary time limit, but a business regulation. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e9397	Mr President. High house! In summary, I would like to say to this discussion: It must never be forgotten that all actions of this federal government are characterised by their inner attitude. There's nothing by chance, but everything you want. It is no coincidence that sick people should pay ambulance fees, that accident pensions have been reduced, that future pensions for workers and employees – I emphasize this – have been shortened by the decisions of the previous year and that the existing pensions are now also being intervened and there is no sustainable guarantee of value. All of this is full intention. This became clear in this discussion, and the one-off payment of 0.6 percent does not change. However, it is also intended that worlds lie between the words of members of the government and the actions of the Federal Government: If Mr. Grasser, who has not yet been quoted in this debate, spoke on the occasion of his budget speech on 7 May. May 2003 said that proof of the social competence of the Federal Government was also that existing pensions are not being intervened, and we are now experiencing the opposite, then the evidence has been shown that there is a difference between words and deeds. Ladies and gentlemen! The pension reduction reform brings reductions of up to 30 percent, for example with a mechanic who is 40 years old and is expected to work for 50 years. – This can also be taken from a prospectus on popular desire for pension reform. On the other hand, for example, the honourable Member boldly said in an issue that it had been done enough for the little man anyway. He has not said that now something has to be done for the great men, but that is your inner attitude, Mr stupid [[Abg. Dr. stupid: 2.5 million don't pay income tax!]] To do something for the Great and to do nothing for the Little! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Deputies! You and the ÖVP want to redistribute, and FPÖ will help you. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: More than no taxes can be done!]] Your internal attitude to pension harmonisation is clear. The ÖVP hold is: brake, brake, brake, and if so, so that harmonisation really occurs only in 30 or 35 years. In any case, the SPÖ has a model for the harmonisation of pensions, the trade unions also have one, but the government has none, except to allow time to do so. A few minutes ago, Mr Drinkl said that it was a misuse of popular rights on the part of the SPÖ when a popular desire was launched by the SPÖ. - I'm just saying: In 1982, ÖVP representatives initiated a popular desire for the conference center. Then it was abuse at the time, very much revered Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party! So this statement is self-evident, and that is why I ask everyone to have this pension people's desire as far as possible on the first day, on 22. March, to sign.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e9461	The next speaker is Mrs Riener. Still speaking time of the ÖVP: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e9480	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Please remember what you have in your wallet! I don't mean the money now, I don't mean the family photos either. It's about the so-called plastic cards. Whether it's a bank card, credit card, ÖBB advantage card, member cards or a customer card from the OBI home market or the like: We're used to handling plastic cards. This is about the change in social security laws, which makes it possible to combine the citizen card and the social security e-card. It should be possible to place the key function within the eGovernment system on the citizen's card without affecting other ways of use. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: This is an illusion!]] On the other hand, this legislative passage also approves the possibility of equipping the social security e-card with the citizens' cards. How does this work in practice now? – It will be set up in such a way that the data will only provide a key function for the doctor’s electronic management system. Each trust doctor has his own doctor card, and only in combination with it is the possibility to make the data of the patient or the patient visible to the doctor. But I would like to ask those who are concerned about safety: Who of you is using Telebanking? How, of course, do we rely on this security system of banks? – And that’s one of the most delicate things in our lives, that is, money! The processor chip is falsifying and the card is protected from unauthorised access. Stolen or lost cards are locked across the system. As I am now in safety, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] The reason for this proposed amendment, which takes place at the suggestion of the Data Protection Council, is that the Data Protection Council will continue to be involved in the future. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: After at least something!]] – Thank you very much. The harmonised solution and especially the e-card offer the following advantages: We don't need to get more health certificates per year. Also, the ASVG insurers do not have to go to their employer to get their health certificates. Some feel the frequency of their health certificates. No matter where insurance companies are insured: The e-card is valid for all contractual doctors throughout Austria, and therefore no longer necessary in Austria. On the back of the e-card, the European health insurance card is applied, which means that foreign health certificates are no longer necessary for EU Member States. A lower amount of work is also due to the fact that health certificates no longer need to be issued. The doctor shall also be deprived of the subsequent application of the health certificate or the recalculation of the ordination fee. However, the e-card also offers the opportunity for the future to implement simplifications that are necessary without great effort. This is ultimately a further step of the ÖVP FPÖ government under Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel to reduce the administrative costs of social security in order to have more money for the medical services for the Austrian population, i.e. also for our seniors.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e9551	The amendment tabled by Mrs Riener is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Last word to add: Mr Oellinger. Other speaking time of the Greens: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e9572	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Riener, it is nice that, as it were, an amendment will be tabled at the last second to grant the Council of Data Protection a hearing right at least in the future. The problem, however, Mrs Riener, is - and you know that - that this change has been made without the Council of Data Protection having been dealt with in due time. Not far from you is now the Vice-President of the Data Protection Council, a co-worker. in your group, because you have set up the entire Data Protection Council in such a way that it does not say much anymore. In the last minute, he says only more: Please, if there is already a Data Protection Council, let us say a few words on data protection issues and do not simply eliminate us completely in questions of highest data-law relevance! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs Riener said that there is a high level of data protection relevance that there are major data protection problems in the proposed form of the amendment proposal, apart from what you have read now, there is no doubt. For this we need a debate, which unfortunately did not exist in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, and here in plenary. The fact is: The social insurance companies, which were said many years ago, exactly in 1996, that they would receive a modern social security system with a social security e-card, are now paying the “citizen card” of this federal government, which would have to be paid out of taxpayers’ money, which can be said under the rule. The data-law problems arising from this reorientation are completely unexplained. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] Let me make a final comment on the debate on pensions, because various speakers from the government parties also said that they should not talk about personal matters. – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, if we do not all of our personal experiences here exercise our mandate – and hopefully not only on personal experiences, but also on some knowledge, on some insight, on the basis of interests – then the passion of parliamentarian, politicians and politicians will soon cease. Then we simply pray down our sentences here and say what is already being suggested in the ministerial offices to the respective representatives of the government parties. But a Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, you do not have that anymore, but just one more room, where you pray a good number of sentences. My sentence about the minimum pensioners – and that doesn't have to be my mother, there are also enough other minimum pensioners – should only explain to you, but perhaps that was too little clearly explained about the dimension of material existence when you have to check every day, every week, every month, whether you can still afford medicines outside of the prescription requirement or outside the cash register you need. And if you have to pay yourself at €630, then you know, ladies and gentlemen, that there is little that you can still afford – and sometimes medicine not. That's the part of the story. The second part of the story, with the question of how the wife of a man who - in this case - worked for 45 years depends on the minimum pension. This also shows the whole misery of our pension system that we continue to produce such situations and existences as well as minimum guarantees. Women – whether mothers or not – who have made their share in the economy, and you can believe this, still depend on minimum allowances, on compensation allowances, even though they have worked for their lives!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e9638	The next speaker is Mr Rädler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e9659	Mr President. Federal Minister! If one summarizes the statements in this debate today, especially the statements of the opposition, one feels turned back to the debate a year ago. In the summer of the previous year, when people outside the Ringstraße demonstrated in the knowledge that 80 percent of the population are for a pension reform, SPÖ's reform involuntaryness has shown itself. In this context, Mr Nürnberger, if there is a name for reform inconsistency, I may address you to your "trilogy of untruths" which you have made in your speech about our clubman and about Mr Donabauer. [[Abg. Nuremberg: The truth!]] – The truth is that: The SPÖ reform indifference began in 1999 with the refusal of your signature under the Government Convention containing the pension reform. [[Abg. Nürnberger: Thank God!]] That was the beginning of the reform involuntary of the SPÖ! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In fact, this has only been followed by the path of uncertainty, the path of uncertainty which you, Mr Gusenbauer, have expressed very clearly today. If we look back a little bit, then we remember the 10 percent solidarity of pensioners you have requested, and then a word message has come again that it actually goes by 0.8 percent for all. – That’s pure uncertainty! The Carinthian friends of your party – so we have heard it today – place and turn it into advertisements, and they want more for those who already have more, such as the chairman of your Pensionist Association, Mr. Blecha. On the other hand, there is a government that has advocated reforms in this federal and state of Austria. It has already been said several times today: The “new finishing” was a milestone in social policy; the child money, a milestone in social policy, a milestone also the equality of workers and employees. Once in Lower Austria – and you know this too, Mr Gusenbauer; I think you were responsible for SPÖ Lower Austria as the country's managing director – you have given an election log of the SPÖ, who has declared: “Others talk, we act!” – But that’s over in Lower Austria for a long time, and that is only more to be attributed to the ÖVP/FPÖ federal government at federal level.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e9704	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to remind you that we have reached an agreement in the Presidency that this debate is over at 2 p.m. – I would ask you to come to the end!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e9720	Mr President, may I say to Mr Keck that he has made himself a 'political würstelman' here today by distributing sausages. You can see how much the SPÖ and especially it are wrong: Today is Ashini Wednesday! S’ will not do a political business with sausagesmelln! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] As a conclusion to today's debate: The SPÖ and also the Greens should accept the ones they stand for politically. You're far away! For example, when we put up the comparison with a worker – and you were once a worker –...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e9747	Ladies and gentlemen, I asked you to come to a close. It's 2.08 p.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e9765	... that today has an average pension of €925, and a railway driver has a pension of €254. That's your policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e9793	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we shall vote on the draft Social Insurance Amendment Act 2004 in 401 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Mr Tancsits, Mr Dolinschek, Mr President, have tabled an amendment on Article 1(2). In addition, there is a desire to vote in favour. I shall, as there is only one amendment, deal with the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report, taking account of the amendment tabled by the honourable Members. Mr Tancsits, Mr Dolinschek, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. We therefore come to the vote of the draft Social Insurance Amendment Act 2004 together with the title and receipt in 401 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendment tabled by the honourable Member Mag. Tancsits, Dolinschek, colleagues and colleagues. As has already been said, there has been a call for a vote. As this request was made by 20 Members, a nameable vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The ballots to be used are in the drawers of the Members' House and bear the name of the Deputies as well as the name "Yes" – these are the grey ballots – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the votes in the votes cast. I would like to ask those Members who vote in favour of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report, taking into account the amendment tabled above, to vote yes, those who vote against, to put no to the vote. I now ask the author, Mr Wimmer, to begin with the name call; he will be replaced by Mr Auer. I'm interrupting the meeting for a short time.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e9888	To make it clear what I said: I shall, of course, resume the interrupted session. It was not a interrupt, but I started the call, and I said so that the debate has ended and now the vote and the call for Members begins. That's what I meant! This is correct. I beg you to continue! [[President Dr. Khol and conceptual officials talk to the president-in-chief Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn.]] Please start with the vote again so that no misunderstandings are possible! [[Call the SPÖ: This is the government's chaos policy!]] [[A member of the Parliamentary Board shall remove the votes previously cast from the urn.]] I now ask the author, Mr Wimmer, to begin the call for name; Mr Auer will replace him later.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e9935	Did all the ladies and gentlemen vote? – That concludes the vote. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make their votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e9968	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 177; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 95, No votes: 82. The draft law on social security amendments 2004 together with the title and receipt in 401 of the supplements, taking into account the amendment tabled by the honourable Member Mag. Mr Tancsits, Mr Dolinschek, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Achleitner, Amon, Auer Jakob, Auer Klaus Hubert; Bleckmann, Böhm, Bösch, Brad Alfred, Brinek, Bucher; Dolinschek, Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert; Edelwall, Eßl; Fassleven, Fekter, Felzmann, Franz, Freund, Frieser, Fuhrmann; Gahr Hermann, Glaser, Grander, Grillitsch, Großruck; Hakl, Haubner, Hofmann, Hellererer, Hornek, Huainigg, Hütl; Ikrath; Kainz, Kapeller, Keussnigg, Khol, Koßl, Kurzbauer; cross-country skiers, ledolter, lentic, light-egger, lopatka; Machne, Maier Ferdinand, Mainoni, Marek, Miedl, Mikesch, Missethon, Mitterlehner, Molterer, Murauer; Neudeck, Neugebauer; Pack, Partik-Pablé, Praßl, Preider, Prince, Princehorn; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Regler Roderich, Riener, Rosenkranz, Rossmann; Scheibner, Scheuch, Scheuermair, Schöls, Schultes, Schweisgut, Sieber, Sonnberger, Spindelegger Michael, Stadler, Steibl Ridi, Steindl Konrad, Stummvoll; Tamandel, Tancsits, Drinkl, Turković-Wendl; Walch, Wattaul, Winkler, Wittauer, Wöinger, Wolfmayr, Zweytick. Members voted with ‘No’: Bauer, Bayr, Mulder, Binder, Brosz, Broukal, Bures; Cap, Csörgits; Dobnigg; Eder, one; Faul, Fleckl; Gaál Anton, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Glavischnig, Grossmann, Green Forest, Gusenbauer; Hagenhofer, Haidlmayr, Heinisch-Hosek, Heinzl, Hoscher; Jarolim; Kaipel, Keck, Kogler, Königsberger-Ludwig, Krainer, Herbs, Crist, Kummerer, Kuntzl; varnishes, laps, lights, lunacek; Maier Johann, Marizzi, Matznetter, Moser Gabriela, Moser Hans, Muttonen; Niederwieser, Nürnberger; Oberhaidinger, oillinger; Parnigoni, Pendl, pepper, mushroom, Pirklhuber, Posch, Prehauser, Prammer, Puswald; Rada Robert, Rest-Hintersief, Riepl; Sburny, Sharer, Schasching, Schieder, Schönpass, Schopf, Silhavy, Sima, Spindelberger Erwin, Stadlbauer, Steier, Stoisits; Trunk; Van der Bellen, Vergestnitsch; Walther, Weinzinger, Wimmer, Wittmann, Worm
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e10144	We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 402 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – It is accepted by a majority. 3rd. Point Report of the Committee on Science and Research on the Government Template (385d.b._Other Organiser Federal Law on the University of Further Education Krems (DUK Act 2004) (408 d.b.) 4. Point Report of the Committee on Science and Research on the Government Template (386d.b._Other Organiser Agreement in accordance with Article 15a B-VG between the Federal Government and the State of Lower Austria on the extension of the University of Training (Donau-Universität Krems) and Appendix (409 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e10199	We now come to points 3 and 4 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First speaker is Mrs. Dr. Brinek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e10223	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Dear guests from Krems! A weekly newspaper was published at the beginning of 2004: “With the factors for success in the new year.” – Among the success factors, the success plan included further training, that is, “fitness in the head, fitness in the body” at the top. This concern is important to the Federal Government, which is very important to the House, and I am glad that we are today able to adopt a law that takes further training far more important and more serious than before. With the Danube University Act, a training institution enjoying a specific status is at the centre of attention. From the original university center for further education, now a university: the Danube University Krems. Their specific task is to carry out university courses. This makes this university unique from another university of traditional ways, which offers Master's studies, doctoral studies, habilitations or the possibility to do so. Therein lies the specific character of the Danube University. The new thing we will decide today is that this university will therefore become a university, based on the pillars of the University Law 2002. I am very happy about this – when I appeal to the committee – that we can expect a great deal of support and that all the parties here in this House thereby indirectly consider the University Law 2002 important and good. Ladies and gentlemen! Commendation is to be expressed to all those young people and adults who have already dedicated themselves or have already dedicated themselves to scientific training at the University of Krems after the first phase of their scientific training. And it should be remembered how quickly this Danube University became a success story: In 1994, under an ÖVP science minis­ There are more than 2 600 students starting with 100 students, and the planning target is 3 000 students. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, this success story would not have been possible without the support of the country of Lower Austria. I am very grateful that an Article 15a agreement has succeeded in making it possible to have a financing guarantee for the future. Thanks to Lower Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A few more points to redesign: The new structure of the Danube University of Krems has preceded the creation of a development concept, so it has not only been worked on the green, self-made table, but also on the basis of expert opinions from universities and university centres, which have already been heavily concerned with excellent further training. With the Danube University Law according to the model of the University Law 2002, Krem's university use is expected to return. This means in particular: autonomous design of the internal organisation, uniform law of study with regard to the participants, students, the specific challenges, the creation of an academic-critical mass that allows it to speak of a university and not merely of courses or courses, the corresponding staff through the establishment, in particular of professors and professorships, and the consideration of special provisions taking into account the composition of the institutions, for example in the preparation of the curriculum. With this law, which we hope to adopt today by a large majority, the Danube University will become a central European centre of competence for lifelong learning, for specific adult learning and for further education. It will become a scientifically founded training institution, which, as a former Austrian unique, will now become a Central European unique. We wish this new European Centre of Vocational Training every good and good success in the further development of professionalism and expertise so that lifelong learning can continue to live and serve as a future factor in managing all tasks. One last thanks to those who act. In the resort are the Federal Minister Gehrer, Section Head Höllinger and his deputy Mag. Faulhammer. Among the pioneers in Krems – all who are not mentioned – I like to see that – I thank the current rector Werner Fröhlich and the curator Monika Skalicky. I would also like to thank the Vice-President, but as long-time chief, Ingela Brunner, who at the time, when the first Vice-President Maria Berger quickly agreed to take care of Krems and ate Krems for a long time. Thank you very much to all those mentioned, but also to the fellow Members. Good luck with the new Danube University Krems!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e10287	Next item is the report by Mr Broukal. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e10321	Taferl, Mrs. Fekter, yes! Mr President, thank you for the transport! I'm just wearing glasses, not a doctor. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] We, who are interested in education, at universities, are once again together. Mrs. Dr. Brinek, someone said I told you right away. We have said in committee that we are happy to agree, for the simple reason that we believe that this young university child in Krems may also need a little encouragement from our side, but – we have added that – we do not agree to the 2002 UOG. What are you saying here? . They say that this means indirect consent to the 2002 UOG. – Unfortunately, this leads me to have to tell you formally: That's not how it is! But we're glad that Krems continues his path. It is, however, as you know from your own perspective, the only university in Austria that has its own railway station, even if it has to share it with the large breeding house at the bottom of the platform, but nevertheless. And it is a university that, borne by the will of the political parties in the country, has been fighting for recognition, money and a place in the Austrian university landscape for many years. This is a small step, it won't be the last one; we agreed. [[Complementary of the Abg. May. Worm.]] But the UOG 2002 already plays a role, of course, because it has been the occasion for the change, has it? This brings me to use this opportunity to talk about the situation of universities in general. In particular, Mrs. Dr. Brinek, gives me the opportunity to do this, which is the point that the Treaty with the State of Lower Austria clearly states: But pay it does the country! If only we had a sentence in the UOG 2002 that reads: But the Minister of Finance pays it! If he fulfils his obligation, then we would have a lot of reason and a lot of joy to be able to agree to the 2002 UOG. I'd like to talk a little bit about the events of the last few weeks. What happened? – On the occasion of this really embarrassing and not apologizing incident in Vienna, we have all noticed that, despite UOG 2002, it is not so quiet at the universities. But we've seen that there's this problem. Then we have noticed that the University of Vienna is the only university – although every third student/third student is studying at this university – to have to implement this law in its full hardness and rigour and co-determination and anti-co-operation. The smaller universities were different. In part under the arrogance of the Ministry and also of the Federal Minister, if I am properly informed, one has from the beginning tried to involve the students and the so-called middle construction in consultative bodies – more is not possible in accordance with this university professorial protection law 2002 –. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That is, the law gives this form of participation!]] I think, by the way, that word “middle building” is pretty slow to insult, isn’t it? There I see Professor Grünewald, there I see you, Mrs. Professor, and I think: What kind of “middle building ” are you? – You are the bearing pillars of this system! And then there are a few more professors about it. Why do these few professors – to say professors would almost forbid themselves if you take gender mainstreaming seriously, because there are almost none – everywhere half the rights?- Oh, my God! And you have to beg and happy if you can speak informally? – You are grown-up people and let this please you. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: The law now gives more!]] In no company in the world would such qualified employees be allowed to be locked out of co-determination that they had for years and decades and used for the university. You're gonna like all of this?- Oh, my God! – What do you want to do? [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: The law now gives more, as you say!]] The smaller universities have interpreted the law as liberally as it was possible – sometimes too liberal as we know. That's when warning locks come from Vienna. But the University of Vienna, through the mediation of the – I say this with pride – Social-Democratic, that is, the SPÖ-affiliated chairman of the University Council of Kothbauer, tried to bring things into the lot, so that probably even in Vienna, participation rights, informal hearing rights are now guaranteed as it was probably in 2004... – Yes, but this law also gave the rector Winckler the opportunity not to do so. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: All this gives the law! That's exciting!]] It is not about the rectors being nice and friendly to people like you or Professor Grünewald, but it is about you, Dr. Brinek, and you, Professor Grünewald, have the right to speak, because you have been working in this company for decades, bringing your performance, knowing the operation – and because participation is a human right and not a grace. Even if grace is tarrying as liberality, it is no longer. It was your right until half a year ago, Mrs. Dr. Brinek! Today you can be glad that the professors grant you the right of participation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's not the way it is!]] – Of course, that’s true! There is a sentence in this new law, which reads as follows: The less the bodies have to talk, the more the middle construction and the students can be there. This is a reverse axiom. [[New call of the abg. Dr. Brinek.]] But I mean, it's time to say at this point: If the SPÖ has the opportunity to change this, you, Mrs Brinek, and Professor Grünewald, will have the right to participate again – and not only in consultative bodies without any influence. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second thing I'd like to tell you is... – But otherwise very little, isn't it? [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: But we can be Senate Members now!]] That's clear. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's the same thing!]] - No, no! I would also like to say: In a few months, you will be back in the government parties to discuss how the government budget is to be made in 2005. It will be the question again: What do we do with the universities and their financial resources? . I have made a time series based on the official figures of the Ministry of Education, which I would like to show you completely unpolemically, just to document to you that, apart from all the day-to-day polemics at the universities, there is no money at all. [[The speaker put a sign on the speaker’s desk: “Government Hungers Unis”.]] These are the official figures of the Ministry of Education. This first graph shows the development of the 1990 university budget – the headline above is polemic; I admit that. Hide this for a moment, otherwise the educational purpose will not be achieved! We see: 1990, 1998, 1999 – ÖVP/SPÖ government – a strong rise in university budgets. [[The speaker holds the panel in the direction of ÖVP and is thus largely concealed.]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: We don't see you at all!]] That doesn't matter! This is an old game, the next time I'll bring such a big one. The grasser always wanted to give light pictures here; I am there of his opinion. But what you can see at the height of the graphics is: Today, in 2004, universities have no more money than in 1999. We have heard that at this time pensions rose by 8 percent, income by 9 percent. Someone could probably tell us that the devaluation has amounted to 8 to 9 percent in these five years, but the universities still have the same money! Now we turn the panel around and look at what the teaching of universities looks like in relation to national income: We have another lonely tip: 1999 – ÖVP/SPÖ – and we have a relapse, as measured by national income, behind the dosage of 1990! Behind the dosage of the year 1990! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The budget recovery has gone past you without any trace!]] Yes, but at the universities is Your savings program didn't go past without a trace! You harvested what was going on there, didn't you? [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] You can also say that's all right, they don't need the money. – I say to you: We will go to the next election with the promise to bring the universities back to where they were in 1999, when you of the ÖVP also felt that the universities were making decent money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e10534	Next item is the report by Mrs Bleckmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e10552	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mr Broukal himself said that the educational purpose of his beautiful Taferls was not achieved, only by the way he formulated the Taferls. Apparently, he does not want what he himself calls for to be implemented if he does not even write the Taferln in such a way that one can really follow it. I would therefore recommend that he really look at the data, figures and facts carefully and not take any figures that are not clear. Or do you believe only the statistics you faked yourself? I'm calling you the numbers they really are. They know for themselves: For 2004, there is 6 percent more money at the disposal of universities than in 2003. That means they have more money, depending on the number of students. That's fact, you can't just talk about that. In other words, they receive additional € 18 million for university and research infrastructure, € 10.9 million for preferential professorships, € 73 000 for special courses and € 527 000 for research scholarships. All this is done in addition, i.e. no more casting cans, it is no longer distributed according to the principle that social democracy has been doing for decades – no matter what – but rather project-related and according to the immediate need. This is a proper and sensible measure of this government: Then, if it is necessary to make money, but not everyone. You too would have to know that not everyone who complains and complains must believe that it is really so important and necessary to give extra money here, but that needs to be checked, that this needs to be considered carefully. The universities have now received more money – this is a fact and is not to be washed from the table. You, Mr Broukal, say – I have written this down – that in no way would it be possible for the medium-sized building to speak so little. – You, Mr Broukal, have not studied it, but you have not come to know it either. From the business theory, it simply looks different in the enterprises of the world. You should know that too, Mr Broukal! [[Abg. Broukal: Don't ask ad hominem if it's easy! I am suffering from the lack of an academic degree anyway!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] It's not removed! Look at how it works! There the owners determine, there determine those who also make the money available, or it determines those who are there managing directors. And these are now in universities, if we want to make them modern, future-looking, competitive businesses, including directors. If we want the universities to be competitive in the future, we must now also give them this opportunity to live in this new structure. This possibility has been created, and now you have to actually give it to them. I am very excited how you will be in the future, when you see that the system will also work, if you already make groovy promises, you will do all of this again. I remember the babysitting allowance. The introduction of the childcare allowance was a very big one: We'll do that again, that's terrible, that's terrible! [[Abg. Broukal: We said we were bringing it back in!]] There were quite different sounds in the election campaign. It was said that we only changed marginally, because it is not so bad and so terrible at all, and we will not abolish it – because you have seen that child care money has arrived well with the families and the population. You will also see from the SPÖ here, at the UOG 2002: It will also arrive well, only it takes its time until it is implied and really works well. Then everyone will see that it is the better system – and we will also see how you will behave then, because the opportunity for participation – you know it yourself – is there indeed. [[Abg. Broukal: You will never be able to talk to us!]] You know what the current system looks like. As you are talking about the country of Lower Austria: The country of Lower Austria – and this is a good thing – is happy to pay and voluntary, because the UOG 2002 is of course the occasion for this law, which we are talking about today and which we also decide unanimously today. Furthermore, it is very welcome that this decision is taken unanimously. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Broukal.]] It is gratifying that the opposition goes with this too. Nevertheless, we will not go along with your motion for a resolution, because it refers to 2004, and there is just 6 percent more money being made available there than 2003. That is why we will not vote for your motion for a resolution because we have already complied with this. For 2005 we will then review it, and we are glad that the Danube University Krems now has the opportunity to expand, spread and make even more offers available to the students.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e10646	The next item is the speech by Mr Grünewald. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e10665	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! In this case I too can calm down the government parties and also the colleagues in Krems, in Lower Austria and the students there: We will vote in favour of this bill. However, I would like to look beyond Krems and question some critical questions. Austria is, as you know – I do not need to explain this here – a state, and about borders, opportunities and opportunities of federalism will be discussed in the Convention. It will also be to discuss how to plan federal education and research in Austria. I can still remember the following: Years ago, former Vice-Chancellor Busek appointed me to some of the Ministry's commissions, and Krems was also discussed. I can only tell you that there was a lasting and lasting resistance from the Vice Chancellor to a university, which lies in about 90 kilometres before the gates of Vienna – I did not measure it. Busek meant that there was a total Austrian education concept missing here, and eventually she did not baptize “Weiterbildungsuniversität Krems” but called it “Ludwigs-Universität”; now perhaps “Erwins-Universität”. - But that's an old story. But I believe that Krems is working hard, against many resistances, and that there are now balance sheets that never made it responsible for destroying such a newly created structure. However: Tens of years ago, hospitals, like the Schwammerln, were shot out of the ground, and ten, 15, 20 years ago, they were sometimes new universities. However, they have nothing to do with standing there but do not have the necessary resources and networking and ultimately have to beg each year from budget to budget. But what has always been missing, not only with the current government, is a truly united coordination of education and research policy. At least this coordination did not have an enormous importance, even in the years before you. We should, however, pay tribute to reality – and not just tribute will take on pseudo-activities or promises or the pronouncing of immeasurable operationalness. The university, it seems to me, has come to an end as a term that is soft like a bathing pool. What does university mean? Can University – colleague Brinek, I have to criticize you – be something where no habilitations are possible? You didn't read that. You said habilitations are possible there. – They are not possible there! - If you didn't say so, I'll take it back. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: No, I didn't say that! That's where you questioned!]] There are no habilitations there. No regular studies are offered there. – Okay, should be that way, but then again we talk about the term ‘university’: There is a private university, which at the beginning had 15 students and where only medical information is offered. Is this a “university” if the first act was there that teachers there bought Talars? – So, I think: not necessarily! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That is, the university term is impoverished, and the saying: Diversity and Pluralism is better than simplicity! In fact, a relatively nebulous title comes into being. I think the University of Krems has become the only state university – that's right; even Europe! – focussed on training, training, postgraduate offers, and that is good. Nevertheless, one should not believe that other universities do not have these tasks. That is, performance and competition are something beautiful, but under fair conditions. Other 20 universities also have to go around these budgets, and when EUROSTAT recently carried out surveys on how many proportions of the population in Austria are in training and courses – in a certain period before or after the survey date – it was found that Austria had a disgraceful eleventh place with 7.5 percent. The EU average is 9.6 percent. This one has risen, but the Austrian contribution has fallen here. That means something has to be done. I can only correct Broukal, and so much can he expect with a hundred percent security, and I can also say: All official bodies dealing with statistics – also WIFO et cetera, p.p. – have calculated that the proportion of universities in gross domestic product has fallen from 1.07 to 1.05 percent last year and their share in the federal budget has fallen from 3.89 percent to 3.66 percent. Not in absolute numbers, I'll give you the right. But, Mrs. Brinek, you can say again and again how great the universities are – reality speaks against it. In Krems one will need money if one works decently there, more money than has been estimated, significantly more, I would even say. These funds can be shared with the country, but forecasts of whether Article 15a agreements are sufficient, I dare not give up. That is, one will have to see how Krems can continue to play his good role in the concert of the offer. But I would also like to draw attention to the rest of the 20 universities: In Krems, it is a little easier to have third-party funds and to acquire them. There is good cooperation with the economy, with large industries that also benefit from Krems. There are, of course, relatively high fees for young people and their parents, which the university cannot and should not demand. That is to say, if the state does not oppose it, it is slowly becoming a disadvantage, which in fact confirms again my thesis that there is no uniformly viable education and research concept and that performance and competition can only be achieved if all have the same opportunities. I wish these Krems, but I wish them all 20 or 21 Austrian universities the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e10734	Mrs. Gehrer has spoken from the government bank. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e10753	Mr President. High house! I would like to point out to Mr Broukal that the first is the discussion before us. In the context of service rights, we have clearly talked about the fact that in future we want professors on time, professors on a permanent basis, so that in some years there will no longer be this building of mitel. Second: In the context of the University Law, we have also made it clear that there is a new kind of funding, not one according to the principle of foundry, but a financing that stands on four pillars: This is once the government budget, which will be linked to the service agreements from 2007 onwards; these are the study contributions that remain full of universities; these are the funds of significantly increased research funding – we have made over € 1 billion available in research funding! – and these are their own revenue through further training, other services, order research and sponsorship. So I mean, when we look at the budgets together at the end of the year and all the good will, namely the total budgets that the universities have, we will see that in Austria, with the expenditure per student, we are at the top of Europe per capita. That's good, we don't change anything about it, but You have to see the budget as a whole, and it is a new thinking that is required by this new university law. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] To the Danube University of Krems it is to be said that we have broken our heads very well and very intensively about what role the Danube University should have. If we hadn't broken our head over it, we'd have said that's supposed to be a university like any other. – However, the opposite is the case: Together with the State of Lower Austria, very intensive planning has been carried out, expert advice has been obtained, and the following has been established for the Danube University of Krems: the development and implementation of university courses, scientific research to support teaching at university courses, the development of a Central European competence centre – an enormously attractive task in a Europe that is getting bigger, where on 1st January 2004 it will be possible to find out more about it. In May, our neighbouring countries joined the European Union – taking into account new forms of teaching and learning, in particular distance learning, and establishing a quality management system for improving quality and performance, namely adult education, lifelong learning. We have precisely because lifelong learning is so necessary in the course of professional activity that this Danube University of Krems clearly positions it according to these new challenges, which also play a very important role within the EU. This is the new and very important task for this modern training university in Krems. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have, of course, made the adaptation to the university law in 2002. We have the qualified participation. I think it's getting confused over and over again: With determination and concurrence. The problem at the University of Vienna was that there was no official student representation that was willing to discuss really matters. I am very grateful to the chairman of the University Council, whom you have accused of the SPÖ, that he has recognized that the way of demonstrating for youth does not bring anything, and that he has led the youth to go to the negotiating table and to find a good solution in a constructive way with the rector. . This is the role I would have liked to have once more by representatives of your group in this discussion. [[towards SPÖ]] Ladies and gentlemen! The universities are going into a new century with a new law. We now also apply this law to the Danube University of Krems. We position them in the field of lifelong learning. We are positioning them in this new challenge for workers, in this new challenge, which also brings us the great common central Europe. I am very pleased that all the political groups in this House will agree to this bill concerning the Danube University of Krems.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e10828	I am now interrupting the negotiations on points 3 and 4 of the agenda so that the required debate on a urgent question can take place at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure – that is in 1 minute. Request for urgent procedure Dr Alexander Van der Bellen, colleagues in the Federal Minister for Finance on grounds of withdrawal (1484/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e10860	We are now entering the urgent debate on the written question 1484/J. As this has now been done to all the Members of Parliament, their reading by the scribe is not sufficient. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e11099	I give Mr Van der Bellen as the first questioner on the grounds of the question referred for a preliminary ruling pursuant to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e11117	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, may I ask if, in addition to Mr Finz, Mr Grasser will also be present? – Ah, I see him in the door; good, thanks, done. Ladies and gentlemen! Rarely have I gone into a urgent with such a mixture of curiosity and excess. Of course, out of curiosity, because we have a wealth of new questions about itself already known facts and because we have a wealth of new questions about what is not yet known. Of course, I am tense – and not just me – how the Minister of Finance will react, how the Secretary of State will respond and – last but not least – how ÖVP and FPÖ colleagues will respond to these new facts, to these new questions. - So much curiosity. On the overruss side it looks like this: For eight months, if it's not already in the ninth month, we've been dealing with various causses in the question of Grasser. And in these eight or nine months nothing was cleared out, no question was finally resolved, documents were refused us. On the contrary: With almost every week that has passed, in these eight or nine months new questions have appeared, new suspicions appear, which, in turn, need to be explained again. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] These are not quite trivial facts. This is from the very beginning the suspicion of tax evasion both of the famous, well-known “unity for the promotion of the New Economy” and of the person of the Finance Minister himself. This is the suspicion of illegal proceedings in the Ministry of Finance or in the financial offices in this context. These are the new suspicions as regards the favor of the Minister's closest circle of friends. This is the suspicion that there exists here a felt of school friends of Karl-Heinz Grasser, business friends, former or still party friends in the FPÖ. If you look at the print media at this point, I have to say, a little dizzy. If the individual networks around Grasser are displayed and discussed in these networks, you have to be a professional or a professional in order to see through. And why do you have to be that? – Because in all these months we have been confronted with half-truths, with untruths, with targeted or sloppy false statements on the individual questions, whether here in Parliament or in relation to the media, and last but not least – and then I come back in connection with Mr Finz – with adventurous reasons on individual statements, in particular with regard to the tax question. And I have to tell you: When I say “eight months”, I actually have a bad conscience, because as far as I am concerned, the break of trust with the Minister of Finance Grasser is not only happening to the homepage, not only with these millions – at the time still in Schilling – of the industrial association for this homepage, but with the break of trust happened last May with his budget speech, the championship in the mutilation, with which our Minister of Finance kept Grasser breathing for twelve hours. The claim that in its 2004 budget, if I remember quite well, the federal government will spend €700 million in addition to education and science, soon later turned out to be a purely air-absorbed claim, a purely balance-sheet extension in the budget. I do not want to torture you now, but I would ask the colleagues from the EIA in particular: Once you have a quiet minute, check in your briefings from then on whether this has stood in or not! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I trust to bet that in your briefings exactly the same thing has happened, the same nonsense that we have heard here from the government bank, namely the 700 million plus in this area. They believed it at the time, the liberals believed it at the time. – It was a nonsense, a smooth untruth here in Parliament! This was the major breach of trust with regard to the Minister of Finance. It is not up to my fellow Members, particularly the government groups, to condemn Members to do detective small work. Are we paid as detectives? There are outsourced offices for that. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Of you, or what? You got anything like that?]] Mr President, I should like to thank [[Abg. May. Molterer: A legitimate question!]] I am very much for the self-employed, even for the New Economy, and if good offices develop in this area, nothing can be said at all. Only I do not want them to be paid at my expense and at the expense of taxpayers to get on with the nonsense of the Minister of Finance. I think that's an exaggeration. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] On the other hand, today we will also involve State Secretary Finz a little more in our views – State Secretary Finz, who currently has at least three, not offices, but functions: He is the Secretary of State, faithful servant of his Lord in the Himmelpfortgasse. He is also the chairman of the Vienna ÖVP – is he not, Mr. Molterer? Do I, or am I cheating? [[Abg. May. Molterer: Don't you know that?]] – Well, you easily lose the overview of the Vienna ÖVP. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: So little interest in politics?]] – Saying You've got it: Is it him, Mr. State Secretary? So it's him, thanks! Finally, he is a candidate for the Presidency in the Court of Auditors. To date, this has not been demented, not by the ÖVP, perhaps by the FPÖ, since there are already signs, at least not by State Secretary Finz himself. State Secretary Finz gave it yesterday, on 24 February. February, the “Small Newspaper” an interview, in which he shows himself a little angry about this upcoming distrust request and says: ‘Besides the question whether a request for distrust against a State Secretary is possible.’ Mr Molterer, be You so love and make our current State Secretary once on Article 78 para. 2 of the current Federal Constitution attentively! It is to be read that State Secretarys “are appointed in the same way as the Federal Ministers and are separated from the office”. – “Shipping” means not only “various in office” and then, so to speak, out in the wood, but also all other reasons for departure. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Do you wish him that?]] – No, not at all! I only say, “be ordered and divorced from office” like the Federal Ministers. This is also natural because it is a constitutional provision, § 55 of our Rules of Procedure. I recommend, Mr Molterer, to read the comment “Atzwanger/Zgegernitz”, also footnote 4 to § 55: ‘Miss confidence is based on Article 78(1) of the Treaty. 2 B-VG also permitted against State Secretary’. - Maybe we can at least cut it off. In addition, 13 years ago, the Presidential Conference was already dealing with this issue. Mr Finz, State Secretary! The article in the “Small Newspaper” is written with: I'm sure I'm not a whitewasher. You're referring to an interview by me. I can calm you down, I also think you're not a whitewasher, absolutely. The original quote from me is: It is simply enough what “State Secretary Finz has set up on helpless and silly attempts of whitewashing for grassers. ” – “Standard” from last Monday. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: You're right!]] “Try”, unsuccessful “try of whitewashing”! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] According to Lexicon, “washing white” means that dirt will be washed off and you’re white and clean afterwards. There can be no mention of this at all in the specific case. Mr Finz, you are saying: I'm not afraid at all. - I don't want to frighten you, either, not at all. All we demand is your resignation. This has nothing to do with fear, which is quite normal, that you can also resign as a State Secretary. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: The closest!]] And if you want to complain about these statements – you say: perhaps I also complain – then I can only say: Welcome, welcome! Then we will raise just before the relevant institutions such questions as whether the procedure of the financial offices was illegal or not. Not we say this primarily, Professor Doralt of the Law of the University of Vienna has clearly and clearly stated that the procedure is illegal. Apart from having such a good conscience, I ask you: For months you have told us that there are opinions from various audit firms and tax consultants that prove that neither the association nor Karl-Heinz Grasser – never in life – could be taxed in connection with the donation of the Industrial Association. - Okay. And where are the texts? Why don't you give us the full text of these opinions? Why do you just say you've read this, you're fine, and that's why we have to believe it? [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That's mistakenly understood shame!]] [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] I don't know what that is. I don't want to go psychologically. I'm just saying, If these opinions are so great, then please present them, and don't just say that they exist! If you only look at your statements, Mr Finz, then you are already asking one question or another. Here in Parliament a month ago, on 28 November. In January 2004, you said in connection with the homepage, which has been financed by the Industrial Union: This homepage “does not serve the person Karl-Heinz Grasser as a private person, but serves the Minister of Finance as a politician in his role”. – That’s your opinion, at least. And now it comes: ‘Now a comparison: If a service provider gives his staff a motor vehicle and says that he can only use it for service purposes, then no tax is to be paid, because he only uses it for the purposes of the service.” – Yes, that doesn’t dispute anyone! [[Call the ÖVP: Right!]] If the green club gives me a pencil to paint any crosses, I don't have to pay taxes for it. This is my official tool if you want to do so – given my knowledge of the Internet. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] Just, what's that comparison you're drawing? “If a service provider is his servant...” – yes, who is now the service provider, and who is the servant? Is the association of industry the service providers of the association? Or is the association of the service provider of Minister of Finance Grasser? Or is the industrial association, without which the association would not exist at all economically, directly the service provider of Minister of Finance Grasser? What is that supposed to mean? – If the Industrial Union is the service provider of the Minister of Finance and he therefore does not need to tax this payment, I would suggest that the Industrial Union also pays the salary of the Minister of Finance. These are clean conditions. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] By the way: The Secretary-General of the Industrial Union has said that there is no written agreement with this association. I have to take note of this, but every service provider who employs a servicer does a job description, right? Could we see these, Mr. State Secretary? Your second reason, which you gave us at the end of January, I'm just stretching now. Then you told us: The donation, the payment, the transfer of the industrial association to this legendary association is therefore not taxable because transfers to disaster victims are not taxable either. - Who is the victim of disaster now? The Association or the Minister of Finance? [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Oillingers: There are already several!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This urgent request to the Minister of Finance is divided into several blocks and topics: first: the acquisition of – quotation marks – “donations” by staff of the Finance Minister’s Cabinet, second: Karl-Heinz Grasser’s homepage, funded by the Industrial Association, personally, thirdly: Questions about the official website of the Ministry of Finance, fourthly: quite new issues related to an advertisement of financial market supervision, concerning prohibited insider transactions or the abuse of insider information. This is in no way to mean that these questions are complete, in the sense that these are all the questions to be asked to the Minister for Finance. For example, we have his false statement here in Parliament of 12. June 2003 in connection with this advertising series of professors, of which the work of the Federal Government, we say, was well assessed and the question was raised as to who paid it, whether it was an initiative of the Ministry of Finance and so on. Minister of Finance Grasser said at the time: “Since I’m not the client, I can’t tell you who paid it...” – that’s a typical form of these half-truths, which are basically a false statement. In the meantime, it has been found that an employee of your cabinet, Mr. Finanzminister, Mr. Dozent Christl, has initiated this ad series and provided for its financing, not least again, as before, with a generous payment of the industrial association. I noticed something, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP: I think you will soon get a complaint from the members of the professions and tradesmen, because I think the optics associations must be slowly nervous. Whenever I have read an opinion from an ÖVP politician in the last few days, it has been said first and foremost: The thing is fine, legally flawless, but the look is bad. The look is fatal, the look might be better. – What can the opticians do for it? [[Rejoicing with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] It is not about glasses, it is about facts and facts! And we want to have once again highlighted these in the answers to these 47 questions from the Minister for Finance. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Today is Aschirdi Wednesday!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This is a little below your level!]] In the meantime, these eight months are asked: Who is behind the Minister of Finance now? It is clear first of all that industrial associations, two-way Chancellors' bowls and third parts of the FPÖ. [[Call the SPÖ:Finz! Finz!]] – Yes, Finz is in front of Grasser, not behind Grasser. [[Abg. Großruck: I hope the ORF doesn't transfer it now!]] What kind of morals is this? I'm gonna let Federal Chancellor Schüssel and his nibelung fidelity go away. We already know that a bowl from the last election campaign is obliged, but one day it will have an end. But what about the FPÖ? That was your invention: Haider invented Grasser, then in Carinthia. Haider has sent Grasser as Minister of Finance to the Federal Government. And now? Are you satisfied with this ballast? I would just like to know that we will see it at the time of the vote. But as far as the industrial union is concerned, we are already wondering what the members of this hoonous institution, which I otherwise valued, actually thought. Did they give the money? Then there is a new aspect that has not yet been observed: In the case of the gift tax, not only is the recipient liable for the gift tax, but, if he does not pay, the donor – unpleasant perhaps. If the industrial association does not have to provide 4 million schilling or 240 000 € – or how much of that – then what counter-performance is there? Is it the hot air that is claimed, or are it the business-damaging statements of Chief Winkler and Minister Grasser, as far as New Economy companies are concerned and for which they are accused? Or is that what Minister Bartenstein said? I quote the “Falter” of today: “... Mr Bartenstein, who says about the donation of the Industrial Union to Grasser that she had been well established, because it came out to reduce the corporate tax”. [[Abg. Oils: Super!]] Mr Minister, you are speaking!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e11417	Mrs Glawischnig spoke on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e11435	Mr President. I find it remarkable that the debate on today's urgent question of the German Chancellors is not present. I already interpret this as the Federal Chancellor's first withdrawal movement towards his Minister of Finance. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Dr. Muted]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé:... is not to the Rules of Procedure!]] I would therefore like to make the request, in accordance with § 18 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure on the creation or quoting of the Federal Chancellor. Please also make known the number of pro and double votes!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e11482	Further word on business treatment: Mr Klubobmann Molterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e11500	Ladies and gentlemen! This is an interesting debate, which Mrs Glawischnig is now beginning: The Greens make a urgent request to whom? On the Rules of Procedure. [[Call the SPÖ:To the Rules of Procedure! To the Rules of Procedure!]] The Greens, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, make a urgent request, address this urgent question to the Federal Minister for Finance and ask the Federal Minister for Finance a whole series of questions – I do not know exactly the number right now; I think, 47 if I have counted correctly. Mr Van der Bellen explained this urgent question in detail – whether deep down – is another question, but at least in detail – only asks questions to the Minister of Finance in question, asks questions to the Secretary of State – and then Mrs Glawischnig comes and asks for a motion for a Rules of Procedure for the recovery of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany!Unknown term type: "%s".? I have to say: The Greens should know what they want! If you want to ask the Federal Chancellor, they should make a urgent request to him – and not vice versa! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I therefore believe that the Minister of State, who is urgently questioned, should now reply. I'm very excited about the answers.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e11537	Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé also spoke on business.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e11555	High house! I, too, am very surprised that the request for Mr Bundeskanzler's recovery will be made here if you, by the Greens, address the question to the Minister for Finance! What should the Federal Chancellor answer if you ask questions to the Minister of Finance? – This is really paradoxical! Mrs Glawischnig, I think you would like to make a political statement here if you would like to see the Federal Chancellor not present at a request to the Minister of Finance to read a downward movement or withdrawal movement by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. [[Abg. Silhavy: But that really is no longer part of the Rules of Procedure!]] I think this wordreading was absolutely unnecessary and has at all... [[Call the Greens:... the request!]] Well, she did not make the request until then. She first argued politically and in fact wanted to attack the Minister of Finance politically here, and then she first made the request. . So I really believe that this request does not have a right. If you would have wished to have the Chancellor on this question, you would have had to ask the Chancellor and not the Minister for Finance, honourable Mrs Glawischnig! We now want to hear what the Minister of Finance has to answer to your questions – and the Chancellor of the Federal Republic let us do his business, Mrs Glawischnig.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e11616	There is no further word. We therefore come to the vote on the request for Mr Bundeskanzler's membership. In accordance with Article 16 of the Rules of Procedure, I will ask Mr Wimmer and Mr Auer, as a writer, to assist me in the enumeration of pro and double votes. You heard the request. Who is in favour of Mrs Glawischnig's request to join the Federal Chancellor? [[The Green and SPÖ delegates rise from their seats.]] [[Writers Jakob Auer and Wimmer shall make the counting of Members who agree to the request.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fischer: (on ÖVP and the Freeman, in the direction of the writer Jakob Auer) You should count over there!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the case of pro-vocal votes, 73 have been counted by my two supporting Members. This is clearly the minority. The request is therefore rejected. [[Abg. Oillinger: Why?]] Do you still want to count the double votes? [[Call the Greens:Yes!]] - Please, we also count the double votes. [[The counter-voice count shall be made.]] The 73 pro-vocative votes are against by 93 Members. To answer the question, the Federal Minister for Finance spoke. His speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. I have read the questions myself and I believe that about a quarter of the questions do not have the issue of execution. In accordance with many years of practice, I still accept these questions, although this does not comply with the Rules of Procedure. It is at the discretion of the Minister of Finance to answer these questions. Please, Mr. Finanzminister.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e11711	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! I would like to thank you very much for the very large number of Members' presence and I will try to answer the large number of 47 questions in full, which is why I would ask you to forgive me for the fact that 47 questions are likely to be relatively difficult to answer in 20 minutes. [[Abg. Oellinger: You owe it to us!]] [[Abg. Oil: Well, well!]] Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the question of the Social Fund and the statements of Professor Van der Bellen is concerned, I would like to predict that I have always been socially involved throughout my political activity, even during the time when I was able to work in Carinthia as the head of state in Carinthia, without trying to hang it in any way on the large public bell, because I simply believe that if we are the happier ones and were in the right place at the right time, we should also try to return a bit of prosperity and happiness to those in need. That was the reason for the initiation of this Social Fund. I should like to point out that there is complete transparency as regards this Social Fund. President a. D. Dr. Georg Weißmann, former President of the Austrian Notarial Chamber, made a statement of this Social Fund about two weeks ago. He explained that the city of Vienna, as the competent fund authority, had been informed by the 22nd Board of Directors. This “Karl-Heinz Grasser Sozialfonds” according to § 27 of the Bundesstiftungs- und Bundesfondsgesetz (Federal Foundation and Foundation Law) was declared permissible on December 2003, and has just appointed the former president of the Notarial Chamber, Dr. Georg Weißmann, as the Stiftungscurator. Dr. Weißmann has revealed who the main donors of this social fund are – so to speak, I come to question 2 of the question. It was listed – you certainly know it –: The Austrian Raiffeisenverband donated €10,000. The Bank Austria credit institution, which was questioned in the request, donated € 7,500. And there are a number of other donors – in total, almost 60 donors – who are socially involved: social involvement, ladies and gentlemen, for children in need – that is the purpose of this social fund. It is dedicated to the whole of the fund's resources and the achievements of generous or humanitarian tasks. There is one, I believe, very well-reputable curatorium with Dr. Weismann at the top, with our very much appreciated ski legend Franz Klammer, who has a French-Clammer social foundation himself, with SOS-Kinderdorf-Förderin Dr. Martina Mautner Markhof, with the well-known child psychologist Professor Friedrich – precisely because children are at the centre of this social fund, it is, I think, very important that we could win it – and also with the city councillor Karin Landauer, who has been very socially committed throughout her life. In that respect, ladies and gentlemen, there is nothing to hide here. This social fund with its donors has been laid open. And I would like to say once again – because one has tried several times to criminalize this and to go to the wrong corner –: I thank all the almost 60 donors who do something for children who are in distress – and I am not allowed to forbid this social commitment from the Greens or anyone else. This is a very, very important social commitment. You can ask me a hundred times, you can criticize a hundred times – I will stick to this social commitment! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] On Question No 1, whose reply I may now repeat, you may read the following: I asked Professor Christl, who was asked with your question 1 for an opinion. I can quote from this: On today's urgent request from the Greens to Minister for Finance Grasser, I can say that: It is the untruth that I would have asked to transfer a donation to an account from Minister of Finance Grasser. It is true that the possibility of a donation for social purposes has been pointed out. At the request for information: Lecturer Dr. Josef Christl. – End of the quote. Question 2 has already been answered. On questions 3 and 8, I can say that these are questions which are not subject to enforcement and are therefore not subject to the right of question in accordance with § 90 GOG. There are also questions which are the subject of judicial disputes. However, I would like to mention that I was never and at no time entitled to draw and provide the account. Question 4: In accordance with the statutes of the association under the association law and the decisions of the relevant association bodies, the association has transferred the donation mentioned to the social fund. This donation was made in accordance with the association law, the status and decisions of the association, and that in leisure time, as is reported to me. Questions 5 and 6: In my reply to the urgent question in the Federal Council on 13 November, the Council adopted a resolution on the subject. February 2004 – where, by the way, Professor Konecny expressly thanked for the comprehensive and detailed reply – I carried out the following: The association has obviously donated a sum in the order of € 10 000 from a total budget of € 283 000. This means: € 10 000 of a total budget of € 283 000, about 4 percent of the total budget. I'm just saying, I thank the club for doing this. I also thank the other 60 donors for doing so. I hope that you too – and I cordially invite you to do so – will make money available to this Social Fund. This benefits children in need. I would be pleased if you would also demonstrate your social commitment on a par with each other. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Neudeck:... account number!]] Mr Neudeck, I would very much like to make the account number available to those who want to engage socially. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: (in the direction of ÖVP) Do not praise, transfer!]] Perhaps representatives of these can be found on the side of the Social Democrats. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: (pointing to the SPÖ)... first reorganize the party finances!]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Mr. Stummful, how much have you already transferred? - Nothing!]] Question 7: In my view, this has not led to a tax liability. I have already explained the reasons for this to the House. But I'm very happy to repeat her: The trust account shall be attributed to the Social Fund in the area of income taxes. ==References====External links== ==References====External links==* Official website According to the provisions of the Corporate Tax Act, Mr Matznetter, this allocation already applies to the founding phase of the Social Fund. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] The trust account has only been set up after the start of the founding phase and must therefore be considered as an account of the Social Fund at any time of its existence. Donations to a social fund account are not subject to income tax. From the point of view of the gift tax, the grants received on the account shall be so-called allocations for charitable purposes. For this purpose, the Inheritance and Donation Tax Act sees in § 15 para. 1 Z 14a expressly provided for a corresponding tax exemption. As far as Question 9 is concerned, do you ask whether I am of the same opinion on this matter as my State Secretary Alfred Finz? – As we have the same opinion on the most common questions, I can tell you: Yes, of course, this also applies to this question. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: For which not?]] – I am not ad hoc now, Dr. Gusenbauer, because both of us are in favour of a very good financial policy, and that is only possible if you really always pull together on one strand, and that in the same direction. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Question 10: Professor Van der Bellen did that too. With the quote: “Of course, this homepage is private”, you gave my quote. I'm at that quote. That is absolutely right, and I can explain to you the following: This homepage is private because it is the home page of a private club. Of course, it is not the private home page of Karl-Heinz Grasser, but it serves Karl-Heinz Grasser as Minister of Finance. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Dr. Cap]] [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Call the Greens and the SPÖ: Oh so!]] Therefore, a very simple connection: Private homepage because homepage of a private club. [[Abg. Oils: That's how easy it is!]] On the question 11: All these opinions were made available to the Public Prosecutor's Office. They were also made available to the financial authorities. I shall, of course, issue these opinions if the Court of Auditors wishes to do so, especially since the President of the Court of Auditors has also announced that he will carry out an examination here. [[Abg. Oils: Us! Ours! We want her!]] – Mr Oellinger, the Court of Auditors is, in my knowledge, the control body of Parliament. Therefore, if this control body is objectively examining – and I am not doubting – these opinions are, of course, available not only to all the competent authorities, but also to the Court of Auditors, which examines. [[Abg. Oillingers: Show us the opinions!]] [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] I am also allowed to carry out the following on this issue of 9 to 11 and to refer to statements by Secretary of State Dr. Finz, who at the time, when this question was related by you, presented the contents and answers of the relevant financial offices to the request for information of the association and of me accordingly to the public. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] So I do this with a reasonable quote from Secretary of State Alfred Finz, which I would like to stress: The financial offices have only become active because both the association and myself have become proactive and have said: Please, give us an appropriate legal information here before any ad or anything else has been submitted. – I quote what Alfred Finz has done: ‘With a view to promoting the New Economy, the following has been stated in relation to the gift tax: The association for the promotion of the New Economy is non-profit-making on the basis of the statutes and the actual management, and the grant of the Industrial Association would therefore not be exempt from the gift tax. In addition, it is carried out: However, there is neither a gift nor a voluntary grant, because there is no intention of giving.” [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Oils.]] And on top of that: 'This is because the industrial association has made the grant in the context of its contract of statute. As a result, there is no tax liability. The company tax is carried out in this review result: In principle, the Association for the Promotion of the New Economy is liable to corporate tax on a lack of public utility. However, the grant of the industrial association to the association is not taxable “because the association of industrial associations did not provide any consideration.” [[Abg. Oils: Oh, yes!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: You still have the confidence to read it out! ‘basic tax’!]] ‘Other company-taxable activities of the association could not be identified. Third point: VAT. The Association for the Promotion of the New Economy is in principle also subject to VAT, which is the result.” [[Abg. Sburny: But not in that case!]] I quote: ‘However, in the absence of an agreement on a counter-benefit, the grants collected here are not subject to VAT.’ Ladies and gentlemen, if you were to know the basic principles of the corporate tax law and the VAT law, you would know that there is a need for an exchange of services and an exchange of services. [[Abg. Oils: No, there is no such thing!]] [[Call to the Greens: Then it's not a gift, is it?]] This is not the case here, so it is obvious that there is no tax liability either. Other quote: By the way, ‘the association’ is, of course, ‘not entitled to any pre-tax deduction’. In other words, the costs charged to the association for the creation of the homepage are to be borne by this gross. Other turnover-taxable activities of the association could not be determined. “ To my person, the result of the financial offices is as follows: Income tax: With the Federal Minister Grasser, the possibility of using the homepage belonging to the association is an advantage from his service relationship. It is not important that this advantage comes to him not from the service provider, but from third side, so from the association. It must be emphasized, however, that the use of the homepage is carried out by the person Karl-Heinz Grasser as Federal Minister and politician. It cannot therefore be assumed that the homepage is a hobby in the private area of the Federal Minister. Such an advantage from the service relationship is therefore not taxable in the outcome of the politician Grasser, because the advantage of the service relationship also represents advertising costs. [[Call to the Greens: What advertising costs?]] Otherwise, it would have been to be assessed if it were a private advantage. In your request, you have mentioned a comparison: Similarly, it is for a vehicle which the employer leaves to an employee for use; if the employee is only professional, then the use of the vehicle is not a tax matter; on the other hand, if he is allowed to drive privately, there is a tax liability. [[Abg. Oillinger: Who are you employed to?]] On the conclusions of that time – I can quote that in turn –: The tax authorities conclude that neither the association for the promotion of the New Economy nor the Federal Minister Grasser have to be charged with the tax evasions. – These were two financial offices with about ten independent officials. I am seeking to note their independence and their integrity, even if you do not agree with the result, and to acknowledge that we have acted completely correctly here. [[Abg. Oils: Regardless of who?]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Questions 12 and 13: As I have already explained several times, in the spring of 2001, I was aware that this association has, among other things, undertaken the development of a homepage as a guiding project. [[Abg. Oellinger: That's what happened!]] At the time, I was asked by the club bodies whether I would be available as a leader for promoting the New Economy on the one hand and for the homepage on the other. A formal empowerment in the sense of how you ask me here was therefore not necessary and did not exist. Questions 14 to 16: As you know, the area of responsibility of a State Secretary is set out in Article 78(1). 2 and 3 of the Federal Constitutional Act and consists in the "support in management" and in the "parliamentary representation" of the Federal Ministers. A Federal Minister may entrust a State Secretary with his consent to the provision of certain tasks. These tasks concern the Secretary of State on his own behalf, and he therefore takes his own competences. However, the Constitution has consistently regulated ministerial responsibility. In the specific matter, it was important to me as quickly as possible to maintain the greatest transparency, the greatest possible independence and distance within the framework of the Constitution. I give you the right, Professor, that it would have been theoretically possible, within the meaning of the Constitution, to give instructions, but expressly stress that it would have been virtually totally impossible to think. In addition, it is comprehensible and proven that there has been no guidance from me or Alfred Finz or anyone else on this issue. Questions 17 to 19: First of all, I can say that these questions are not the subject of enforcement, so they are not subject to the right of question in accordance with § 90 of the Rules of Procedure. And I would like to ask you a question, Professor Van der Bellen: You can give me the 12th or 13th or 14th. Request and several requests for distrust, but I ask you to leave my family out of this party policy campaign. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen:... not possible!]] Question 20: I said in an interview that all the allocations of 2002, the so-called representation expenditure, public relations expenditure and much more were reviewed by the Court of Auditors Subcommittee. The award to FirstInEx was not a subject for discussion in the Court of Auditors Subcommittee. This has already been put right in front of the magazine “News. ” In its audit report, the Court of Auditors notes in summary that the award decision in any event corresponded to the provisions of the Federal Procurement Act that the selection procedure was in accordance with the German Federal Procurement Act, that there was sufficient transparency and that the decision-making had sufficient transparency and that the companies provided the work performance in conformity with the contract. In its audit report, the Court of Auditors expressly welcomed appropriate initiatives for budget restructuring, restructuring and administrative reform. On question 21: As a legal basis, the BMF always applies the Federal Procurement Act as applicable. On the question 22: No, no, no, There were hearings with appropriate presentations. On the question 23: The new concept, the redesign, the reduction and the operation of the website of the Federal Ministry of Finance were presented. Question 24: The Commission consisted of five competent experts from the Federal Ministry of Finance. [[Abg. Oillinger: “The Names ” is on the request!]] – I have already said elsewhere that I cannot announce this for data protection reasons. [[Abg. Oils: No, that's not possible!]] [[Abg. Schieder: This is not a data protection question!]] [[Abg. Oils: I can't do that! That's inaccepta bell!]] . We have announced these things in the Court of Auditors' subcommittee, for example, because the Court of Auditors' subcommittee works confidentially. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Yes, but a person is in... not subject to data protection! ...!]] In the plenary session, I did not announce any concrete names on other questions on urgent questions. [[Abg. Brosz: Was Winkler with you?]] [[Abg. Bures: You rejected the Winkler as an information person!]] On question 25: “Who was the head of the award commission?” – It was an employee of the IT section. On the question 26: The members of the Commission assessed the tenders on the basis of the criteria laid down in the tender documents. The award was made on the basis of the determination of the best offer. On the question 27: Has there been quality criteria such as reference projects? - Yeah, she did. Question 28: Yes. Reference projects were available. [[Call the Greens: What?]] On question 29: The company FirstInEx scored 373 points, the second scored 357 points and the third scored 279 points. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Bad luck!]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: That was scarce!]] Question 30: The sub-services were redesigned and redesigned. – In this context, I would like to point out that I have commented in detail on this subject on the following occasions: lastly on 13. Feber this year in a urgent request from the Federal Council, further in a urgent request on 22 February. October last year, in parliamentary questions on 5 October. December last year, 8. October last year, 14. October last year, 15. ==References====External links==* Official website June last year. On questions 31 and 32: In principle, I would like to point out that this question is not, in turn, the subject of enforcement, therefore, not subject to the right of interconnection, and that there is also the obligation to commit confidentiality. However, I tell you – abstractly – that there is no disclosure of trustees towards the financial authorities. On question 33: According to § 25 Z 1 FMABG, the Federal Minister for Finance of Financial Market Supervision has all the files on the execution of the federal laws referred to in § 2 FMABG, including the Banking Act and the Securities Supervision Act, as far as jurisdiction from 1. In April 2002, it had to be transferred to financial market supervision. Therefore, in line with this provision, financial market supervision in April 2002 of course was handed over all the files filed in the Federal Ministry of Finance on RBB Bank AG, now Capital Bank Grave-Group AG. Therefore, these transactions are no longer available either from financial market supervision or from the Federal Ministry of Finance. On question 34: First of all, this question is not subject to the right of question, so it is not the subject of enforcement. Secondly, I must say quite frankly to you that the facts described are not known to me. Thirdly, I do not know whether the Michael Feichtinger, quoted by you, is the founder and owner of the foundation. And to the fourth I say, only the completeness for the sake of: Professor, I think I know you better than Mr Feichtinger, because I have seen this only a few times in my entire life. If you write here, my “personal friend” and – how do you say? – “husbands” then you could rather call me your personal friend, which of course we still need to talk about. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP and SPÖ as well as the Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] On question 35: This question, in turn, is not the subject of execution. I cannot say anything about this either because I do not know this. On question 36: I was amazed when I read this question – and that has never been the case with me – although I now have a certain routine in urgent questions. In connection with Ernst & Young, you are talking about the “introduction of a porn website”. I am the last person to defend Ernst & Young, but I have to say that there have already been statements from the Deputy Clubman of Oillinger regarding Ernst & Young, who said that Ernst & Young had been caught because the “Verein zur Förderung der New Economy” has commissioned Ernst & Young to carry out the audit – although there is no tax money there, they have said that maximum transparency and information was outside – and Ernst & Young was also co-owners of FirstInEx. [[Abg. Oil: YLine!]] Significantly, former green leader Pius Strobl has said that one should not have miscredited a renowned company, researched oillingers and looked into the company's book, we expect oillingers to withdraw it and put it correctly. It actually happened. ==References====External links== February 2004 the following report: ‘Oilinger is correct: Ernst & Young is not involved in the company FirstInEx", subtitle: “Stv. Clubobmann of the Greens regrets his error.” ‘There is me’, you are quoted, ‘a suffering error’, regrets the stv. Klubobmann der Grünen, Karl Ollinger..." I say: It's a shame that such errors are happening to the Greens on the running band! [[Call the Greens:Question!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In order to further answer this, questions 36 to 38 in one: As mentioned several times, I have ordered at my expense one of the most famous auditors, Ernst & Young, to examine the tax side of the case. This opinion, which expressly states that no tax liability was imposed on me, was, as is natural in other cases, presented to the financial authorities. That is to say, it has been presented to the financial authorities as a legal opinion. The financial offices, i.e. the competent financial officials, have, of course, carried out their analysis and their assessment completely unaffected and independent and, from my point of view, in accordance with the long-term administrative practice, has been recognized as well as for many other associations whether they are taxable. With Jura Trust, the Spinola Foundation and YLine, the Federal Ministry of Finance has no business or other relations. [[Abg. Oils: Yes, but you!]] As already stated in the parliamentary question No. 359/J of 30. In April 2003, Ernst & Young received the following order of €33,000: It was about the business evaluation for the Republic of Austria from mountain damage for the companies of the ÖBAG Group. The object was to collect and evaluate the specific liability risk of the federal government at ÖBAG, in particular from the liability for mountain damage under the Mineral Raw Materials Act. There was a status survey in 2001: Trigon Bank with cost of 261 200 €. With Ernst & Young, the Federal Ministry of Finance under Federal Minister Edlinger concluded an advisory agreement of €67 563 in 1997, an advisory agreement of €72 672 in 1998, amounting to € 145 345 in 1999. FirstInEx, as mentioned earlier, was involved in the re-launch of the Federal Ministry of Finance website. With regard to the distributed companies, I cannot answer this question because such contracts fall within the sole competence of the management of the undertakings and the owner of the Supervisory Board has no influence on them. Question 39: First of all, this is not the subject of execution, second of all, I still emphasize that I do not have and have business relations with Jura Trust or Spinola. Ernst & Young advises me on tax issues. Questions 40 and 41: These questions concern the supervisory activity of the Financial Markets Supervisory Authority, i.e. the FMA, where I cannot obtain information from the FMA on their supervisory activities and otherwise I do not have any information on these issues. I therefore asked the supervision of the financial market to answer these questions so that I can provide you with them accordingly. I agree quite openly that the financial market supervision is based on § 16 para. 3 FMABG, which regulates the direct information obligation of financial market supervision vis-à-vis the Financial Committee of the National Council and which is limited to information which is not subject to legal confidentiality obligations. A statement of information in the plenary session is not intended for the FMA, I am informed of it. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Oils.]] It's also a constitutional law. We have decided together. I would ask you to take note of this. This is the information of financial market supervision. On the other hand, financial market supervision is, as you know, a constitutionally independent and non-constitutional authority. The Federal Minister for Finance has information on the supervisory activity of financial market supervision in order to maintain the above-mentioned independence only in a legally limited framework – that is in § 16 para. 1 and 2 FMABG are regulated – to be maintained. This information means that the Minister of Finance or the Federal Ministry of Finance may monitor whether the FMA complies with the laws in its activities accordingly. Information under the normal implementation of the independent FMA is not provided for. All these legal provisions are in place to ensure that financial market supervision is independent in accordance with international standards for a supervisory authority and, in particular, of the political level in the interests of the capital market. On questions 42 and 43: First of all, I cannot tell you the subject of execution: I bought YLine shares from my bank through the stock exchange before I took office as Minister of Finance, which is quite normal: I asked the bank to buy the bank through the stock exchange; and in exactly the same way the shares were sold again via the bank or stock exchange. On question 44: I refer to my letter dated 13 and 14 respectively. October 2002 to the President of the Parliamentary Inconsistency Committee, in which I have completely disclosed my ownership of the shares. Of course, I would stress once again that these shares were included in the current reports of my property to the President of the Court of Auditors. In addition, I would also refer here to a variety of answers from written and oral questions. As regards question 45: The holding of shares in companies or the wearing of corresponding organ functions by the staff of the ministerial office or the office of the Secretary of State is not a matter of execution, but rather falls within the privacy of the corresponding staff. It is therefore not an object of the execution or private administration of the federal government within the meaning of Article 52 B-VG, therefore these questions are not covered by the right of question. In addition, the provisions of the Incompatibilities Act shall not apply to employees of ministerial or state secretariat offices. To come to Dr. Simhandl: Dr. Simhandl, as he told me, was a member of the Supervisory Board of Globalaudionet AG from October 2000 to June 2001. This was reported to the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour at the time. He's been a member of my cabinet since 1. ==References== On question 46: It's about secondary employment. Dr. Fritz Simhandl has a secondary employment within the framework of the University of Applied Sciences for Tourism Innsbruck and the Technical School course of St. Pölten, each in leisure time, i.e. for the time of block teaching events – in total four days a year – holiday days are used. The courses include a subject which is not related to the BMF: Media law and tourism law. May. Christine Billinger has a lecture at the WIFI – in the evening – and Mr Mag. Peter Brandner has a lecture at the Danube University Krems. On question 47: To this end, I can say that Mario Fagitsch did not hold a position in the Federal Ministry of Finance at the time in question. So, ladies and gentlemen, I have tried to answer the questions you have asked, trying to answer these questions comprehensively. I would like to stress – and also in all clarity – that we, that is, the Austrian Federal Government, are dealing with other questions, namely the questions of the future for our country. For us, questions such as: To create jobs, to safeguard the social and health systems, to the economic and employment sites, these are the key issues. These are the questions that people in our country rightly expect to solve, and these are the areas where we are trying to solve problems, make decisions and secure the future of our country. [[Abg. Brosz:... Minimum pensions...?]] Ladies and gentlemen! While you have made about 11 urgent requests to me in the National Council and in the Federal Council in recent months, six mistrust requests, six applications for the setting up of investigation committees, several representations of the case have been submitted to the public prosecutor's office, and so from my point of view – I may tell you – we have raised party policy on the principle! [[Abg. You're not a party!]] [[President Dr. Khol shall take over the chairmanship.]] We have achieved a very tangible balance of success. I am reminded of the tax reform negotiated with us by the Federal Chancellor, the Vice-Chancellor and the club members of the government groups: more than €3 billion discharge! Each taxpayer will be relieved on average with €500, a huge step for the economic and work location with the principle of “social justice is what creates work!” This is a policy, ladies and gentlemen, which deserves confidence! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: The applause was even better!]] As far as the Austrian capital market is concerned, I should like to mention the following: We've got 4 on the 4th. On 1 February 2000, this capital market became a niche capital market and took over as a margin capital market at 1,064 points. A few days ago, this capital market, the ATX, reached 1,789 points, plus 68 percent, while the German stock index has a 45 percent minimum and the Standard & Poors 500 has a 20 percent minus. [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Marizzi: That's embarrassing!]] This is a policy for more equity, so that more growth, more employment, a policy that deserves confidence! [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You left us a huge debt mountain. I remember when I first went to Brussels with Alfred Finz and we had to represent Austrian financial policy. We were told there: Get back to Austria! This financial policy is irresponsible and not in accordance with European requirements! We have reached a balanced budget twice de facto. We have re-arranged finance, and we reached for the first time a month ago – for the first time since we were a member of the European Union – that Austria's financial policy has been classified among the best four Member States, a policy that deserves confidence. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! When it comes to the matter – I could continue: Childcare money from Herbert Haupt, Martin Bartenstein and many other government members, university law of Liesl Gehrer, future care, employee care, pension security reform – then this is a policy that is geared to the matter, trying to solve problems and secure the future. This is a policy that deserves confidence! Professor Van der Bellen! I have come to know you as someone whose understanding of policy is one that is also about bringing in materiality and construction and developing alternatives. When I heard you explain the urgent question, I have repeatedly remembered the political politologist Filzmaier, who has always spoken of “dirty campaign”, i.e. “a dirty political campaign”. When I look towards Alfred Gusenbauer, I have to say that it was he who commissioned a study with Mr. Katzmair – I think for 150 000 € – that says the goal is to systematically discredit my person. So you pay €150 000 for a study, which, among other things, shows that you should seriously consider the systematic discreditation of Karl-Heinz Grasser. [[Abg. Neudeck: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer) Did you write this, this order?]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: How do you get this?]] – This is also the subject of APA reporting. I read this. I'm glad you're correcting this and if that's not the case. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Why are you talking nonsense in a survey? This is unbearable from the government bank!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: This is what the Socialist International paid for!]] Professor Van der Bellen, you've been using a language in the last few days that really surprised me. You also mentioned the “standard” earlier, there is an interview as a headline: ‘This time Finz is also on it’. – You have justified this with a just-disarmed party political statement. You said that he could actually be available as the President of the Court of Auditors, since you obviously know that he is very competent, has a lot of experience and therefore would also have a very high suitability for this office. [[Abg. Silhavy: That's a premise!]] If you make such a campaign, if you also take Alfred Finz into the drawing, I have to tell you honestly: My impression is that you are here in favour of party politics, that you are particularly committed to party-political campaigning. I very much regret that you have adopted the policy of matters. Two aspects to the conclusion, ladies and gentlemen. They have made a number of unsustainable accusations. I'm just saying to one – because you didn't ask for it, but you mentioned it – the following: They say I had a 12th. In June Parliament misinformed on the issue of Professors-Insects. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: How often!]] Professor, please read my answer from then on! She was completely correct! Ask Mr Christl what he had to do with these ads, then he will tell you, yes, he spoke to professors, yes, he also worked on texts, yes, this campaign was known to him; but the question at that time was whether the Ministry of Finance or I myself commissioned advertisements. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: His private opinion?]] And I'll tell you: We had nothing to do with financing this campaign, neither I nor Mr. Teacher Christl. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: That fell from heaven?- Oh, my God!]] So that was simply the untruth you claimed here. Since there are a number of accusations, Professor, I tell you: These accusations are verifiable at the end of the day. I suggest to everyone here in the House that they are interested in the truth. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: You don't!]] I would therefore like to point out once again: There is a ongoing procedure with the prosecutor's office, which has already been established by the financial authorities. The Court of Auditors as the control body of Parliament has announced that it will also examine this question. I have to tell you, I have full confidence in the Austrian authorities. Anyone interested in fairness and objectivity should actually say: We do not work with pre-conceptions, we do not work with regulations, but we look at the result! I'm looking forward to this result. I'm afraid you're afraid of this result because you know that then your campaign will collapse in itself, because it can only come out that everything has been completely correct. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The second point is: Even if that was the next request for distrust and the next urgent one, Professor, I invite you – and I really mean it: Work with us on the future issues for this country! Bring in suggestions! Discuss with us in the matter! Dedicate yourself to the problems of this country! I'm asking: Where are the alternatives that the Greens have brought in? [[Abg. Oillingers: You can have them! Read!]] Where is the alternative to tax reform, pension reform, pension harmonisation, health reform and many other issues? That is why we can only say that we are certainly not getting hurt. With the stones you're putting in my way, I'm going to build something new, beautiful and good. I believe that this federal government is going a very clear way. The view to Germany alone shows that we are doing our homework. This is good for the workers, good for the economy, good for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e12680	I would like to thank the Federal Minister for the detailed answer to the questions. We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having an overall speaking time of 25 minutes. The first was Mr Pilz's report. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e12704	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Finanzminister! You invited us to work with you. How are we supposed to understand that? Should we collect children's photos together with you and place them on a common homepage? Should we, together with you, call the Bank Austria or the Raiffeisenbank and say that we are only referring together if there is a donation to a common account? [[Abg. Neudeck: When you refer, nobody comes!]] Should we be introduced together at the Industrial Union and say that we need funds for common websites, although we cannot guarantee that the money does not flow anywhere? And that, of course, together! [[Abg. Neudeck: This is a bad symbiosis!]] Or do you want to acquire Eurofighter with us, and by – the President has repeatedly pointed out to me not to use the term “shifting” – to enforce interventions of the most expensive type – and I say that as a member of the Federal Army Reform Commission – even though all experts in the Federal Ministry of Defence say today, we will, even if we achieve the best reform in a three or four-party agreement, simply cannot finance it and simply cannot, because the money is spent for the Eurofighters? [[Abg. Gaál: Not manageable!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: The “because” is not true!]] We will not be able to afford a very important reform in security policy. Is this your invitation, Minister of Finance, because to become a political partner or a political partner? Thank you, Minister of Finance, we will not accept this invitation either this time! [[Abg. Neudeck: Maybe you want to take over the sponsorship for a plane?]] And this has nothing to do with whether it is criminal or just not punishable, it is simply political, but also moral, and it is incomprehensible and irresponsible in political culture – not in one case, but in dozens of cases, as we show it to you day by day and week. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But now it's about the feeling of space. [[Abg. Neudeck: Put it in the room!]] You told us you knew the trustee Dr. Feichtinger from Vaduz less than our clubman Alexander Van der Bellen. Each yacht holiday, which has always been done with the same group, has known two members: [[Abg. Großruck: (a copy of the urgent request to the height) “Jacht” stands there! Hunting or hunting?]] Federal Minister Grasser and the Liechtenstein trustee Micky Feichtinger. How big must this yacht have been that you have seen Mr. Feichtinger there rarer than you see Alexander Van der Bellen? What incredible yachts can you already afford in these circles is that you simply can’t meet again and for example the word “Spinola Foundation” or “Jura Trust AG” or “YLine” or “Ernst Hofmann” or “Webline” or “Capital Bank” or “IPM Bank in Liechtenstein” or “RBB Bank in Wolfsberg” can be whispered from time to time? [[Abg. Großruck: The Matznetter knows more about this!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: On a yacht I would have other ideas!]] Of course, you don't know the facts of financial market supervision to the Vienna Public Prosecutor's Office – not because you can't know them, but because you don't want to know them. For a simple reason: because for the first time here has been documented by a public institution the real New Economy in your sense. [[The speaker shall keep a copy of the case-law up to date.]] These are dozens of pages of evidence about the New Economy within the meaning of this Friends-Economy, Mr. Finanzminister, for whom you stand politically and in which you politically maintain your friendships. [[Abg. Neudeck: Is there something inside, or are these just covers, as you always do?]] If you say that you cannot answer these questions, then Austrian courts – I hope soon – or a committee of inquiry will answer these questions in your place and also in relation to your role. Then they will deal with many stories like this one that we wanted to follow here and which you didn't want or could deal with. Then we will clarify these questions according to these individual questions, which are for many others. Imagine: New Economy: Students set up a small company called Webline in Graz. There certain programs are transferred via a webcam to those who are willing to look at such a thing on the Internet at a small fee. Then someone comes and says, This company is terribly over-indebted. We'll buy them off. This gentleman stands in a trust relationship with Industrial Ernst Hofmann, who is in particular the Freedom Party, not only in the Styria, anything other than unknown. [[Abg. Großruck: What does he... have to do with it?]] He takes over the company, which is bankruptcy mature, which is making an annual loss of more than 2.5 million schilling and subsequently a further annual loss of 7.5 million schilling, and goes with this company to Ernst & Young. [[Abg. Grossruck: But now we are at Fidel Castro!]] Thank you, Minister of Finance, for this important information. I quote: “Ernst & Young advises me on tax issues.” – Not just you, Mr Finanzminis- ter! Ernst & Young also advises this kind of New Economy – and not only on tax issues. Ernst & Young evaluates this currently student, bankruptcy micro-enterprise and says: It is worth between 31 and 41 million schilling. – Although the chickens laugh, not the New Economy representatives, they say: Then let's bring her in to YLine! It is introduced into the YLine, and for that there are 15 000 YLine shares. These come to a deposit of Capital Bank in Wolfsberg, the former RBB bank. This is a key enterprise close to the FPÖ and very important for its finances. [[Abg. Neudeck: Who? Who? Can I call you there?]] One day there's this depot. During this day, this depot changes its name and is suddenly a depot of Spinola Holding in Vaduz. The owner of this Spinola Holding is Jura Trust AG. I quote page 58 of this investigation: ==References====External links== ==History==The company was founded on August 2, 1998 by Jura Trust AG, Vaduz. More information on the Foundation is not known about financial market supervision. - Quote. Further information would be as follows: The company Jura Trust AG belongs exclusively to Dr. Michael Feichtinger, your yacht friend. The role of the Spinola Foundation cannot be to better deal with the registered shares economically and tax law, because in this particular case there is no tax advantage to be reaped. It serves only one purpose: The profit generated within two months by a purely speculative bubble of a company condemned to ruin is to be distributed in Liechtenstein and not in Austria. He's been distributed by your friend, the trustee Dr. Michael Feichtinger. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: What does that have to do with it?]] Can now They say: I don't have anything to do with that! That didn't happen on the yacht, it happened on land, and I wasn't there! [[Rejoicing with representatives of the SPÖ.]] But you also had YLine shares. There must also be documents on your depots at the FMA and perhaps also on other members of the government. I wonder about the Fichtinger and other people from this type of New Economy: Why did all these friends of the New Economy sell at the right time and generate the maximum profit that those who did not have insider knowledge then financed? This is why financial market supervision is investigating, and therefore independent courts are investigating. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, you continue to deny this National Council its right to investigate in parallel the political – including this, Mr Finanzminister – responsibility. But we're at the beginning. That's a case. There are many references to other companies in this case of financial market supervision, in other areas, on fichtings and again and again on the Spinola Treuhand in Vaduz. It'll take a while. This will involve judicial bodies, which will involve the Federal Criminal Office. We hope that we will have a proper and appropriate opportunity to investigate. Mr Finanzminister! We'll explain how your friends and their new economy looked and worked. We will further clarify why the wrong ones, namely those who come in to the New Economy and its promises, will have to pay the bill for you and yours. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This investigation is still pending. In the end, you will not be able to prevent this investigation. At Udo Proksch there was at least one more ship and a scrapload. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign again.]] With the New Economy, the shiny and glittering bubbles are simple and simply nothing is contained. It is very high time that, in economic and political terms, the friends of the New Economy and thus also your political activity are put to an end.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e12966	The next speaker is Mr Dr Fassleven. Voluntary speaking time limit: 9 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e12984	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen, in fact, one must be grateful to the Greens for this urgent request today and also for the two mistrusts they have made. [[Call the SPÖ:Thank you!]] On the one hand, one must be grateful because it makes it clear what political tactics they pursue, and on the other hand because they are obviously lacking a larger financial policy concept behind it. We've known about the SPÖ for a long time. [[Abg. Oellinger: Then why were you in the government together with the SPÖ?]] The SPÖ has not only commissioned studies, but has also made itself quite clear to them. There is this study that has already been presented today: “Empirical and Strategic Foundations” – written by Dr. Harald Katzmair. To date, the SPÖ has not clearly distanced itself from the fact that the results of this study have also been discussed by the party. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: There was no reason either!]] For example: In particular, these four politicians – Karl-Heinz Grasser, Alexander Van der Bellen, Benita Ferrero-Waldner and Ernst Strasser – are recommended either to take advantage of positive or to disavow politically, as they represent central identification figures for the majority of SPÖ's mobile potential. [[Abg. Likes Molterer: Van der Bellen, too? Aha!]] Especially Karl-Heinz Grasser manages to play a very positive role among the central groups of voters of SPÖ, middle and senior employees and pensioners. I'm not surprised that you've tried to beat capital out of it, but the fact that this desavowing is only done by personal adaptation, I find it very sad that since Haider's partial election success in Upper Austria, this original strategy and tactics developed by Gusenbauer and Cap have now also disappeared in the drawer and the big opposition party admits itself to a purely "bum-bum" opposition policy. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] It is even more disappointing for me, however, that obviously the Greens also follow this policy. I have to tell you, Professor Van der Bellen: You should not let Peter Pilz push you in the same direction! I have never heard a statement on a urgent request or on a urgent request in this House, which would have been carried out as lustlessly as you do today. You've noticed you're not feeling well. You really have to ask yourself whether the Greens are the fifth column for the SPÖ next to the Trade Union Confederation, the Chamber of Workers, the City of Vienna and the City of Vienna, whether they should not really make an independent opposition policy. They have had very successful approaches to this. In my opinion, red-green is not the best option in the field of financial policy. Look at Germany, what's happening there! Bring a concept, and explain what you would do differently, what you would do as Schröder and Fischer would do, or what you might even make worse! Get out of there! Gusenbauer, too, had to do this in the end, he didn't have anything else left. He is difficult today if he has to admit, when he increases his pension, that he himself would have bought up to 10 percent reductions for early pensioners, but it has only become 7 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer.]] That he'll be hard on the attack, we know. But I would have expected a little more of you in this relationship. Professor Van der Bellen, that you submit the sixth or seventh mistrust request against the Minister of Finance, that's what we expected. That's it. At the same time, however, they also submit a motion of censure against the Secretary of State Finz, which actually shows what is really behind it, namely nothing but the attempt to adapt. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: With reason!]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: No, he's already been patched!]] Let's go see the person! – Alfred Finz has joined the Court of Auditors as a B official in 1966, he has not only worked successfully there for 34 years, but also with conscientiousness and diligence... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e13113	Mr Gusenbauer! We discussed this very case several times in the Presidential Conference. In the last debate, you made 13 calls to a speaker, now you are again on five calls. I ask you to stop this disturbing behavior! [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: This is unheard of, these insults! I'm not being insulted by him!]] [[Further ongoing calls to the SPÖ.]] The speaker is speaking!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e13159	Mr Gusenbauer, listen to me a little! I'm just talking to Mr. Professor. Van der Bellen. [[Abg. Nürnberger: We don't have a muzzle around!]] Professor Van der Bellen! Alfred Finz has not only worked up with knowledge, knowledge, hard work and conscientiousness, but also has in fact a treasure of experience, knowledge and expertise in the field of testing, in the field of justice, as one probably finds quite, very rarely. He is an integral personality through and through – and yet you go here and apply for distrust against him. Why? What did he do? – First of all, please, when the accusation was raised for the homepage in the Ministry of Finance, he carried out an examination – what he has learned all his life. I think this is also the most obvious thing: that someone goes here and tries to check inside once if something has happened. Of course, the internal revision, the internal examination is the first thing you do. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Why did he reject the Court of Auditors?]] – Nothing came out! He, without taking part in the examination himself, announced the outcome, and there was nothing wrong with what would have been illegal in any form. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Why did he reject the Court of Auditors?]] But that's not enough. . You have now referred to the fact that he has not only expressed this clearly, but that he has also had the courage to be responsible in recent days and has made it clear what is to be said about this matter, and also when the debate on the Court of Auditors' examination has taken place. He warned about it. He said that he believed that it was not the Court of Auditors' responsibility to carry out a legal review in this matter, but that the economic audit should be at the centre. I think that's right! That's courage to be responsible! If, then, thank you for submitting a motion of censure against him, i.e. to someone who immediately, when the President of the Court of Auditors has known himself in this direction, has acknowledged that this is an economic test to be carried out on the issue of the examination of justice, I must say: This shows quite clearly what you really want to do: They want to make the second successful team, namely Alfred Finz, bad and adapt. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens and the SPÖ]] But you won't succeed! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The success of financial policy can be seen: not only the fact that it has succeeded in achieving a zero deficit, but also tax relief, measures for economic promotion, measures to promote families, something that is set as an example throughout Europe and which finds the highest level of international recognition. This is a product of State Secretary Finz and Minister of Finance Grasser and, of course, also of the Federal Chancellor and Minister of Economic Affairs. Recognize that! If, then practice material criticism, but don't disavow personalities! That's not yours. Leave this to Peter Pilz, and return to a policy of seriality! I believe that it is particularly appropriate in our democracy, which I place far ahead of many other democracies, not only to value it, but also to confess to it as opposition representatives. Not least, they will be doing a good service by themselves, because I believe that if people act seriously and do not simply try to adapt to people. Become another You never get rid of the mistrust that many people have towards red-green. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Is that what the Dinkhauser says?]] The mistrust is due to the debakel in Germany. Don't try to do something similar in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e13257	Mr Cap spoke on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e13275	Mr President. I would just like to point out that in the Presidential Conference we rightly criticised the fact that intermediate calls are made against speakers by non-residents in the first, second, or by non-residents in the first, second row, where their place is not theirs. [[Abg. May. Molterer: “Foreigners ”?- Oh, my God!]] On the other hand, Dr. Gusenbauer: He's sitting in his place, it's his place, and of course he can make calls! I therefore believe that your remark was not in accordance with the consensus we concluded at the Presidential Conference. I would therefore like to reject this.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e13316	Next speaker on business management: Mr. Klubobmann Molterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e13334	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Cap, I would like to begin by saying: There are no non-resident Members in this House! All Members belong to the House! Mr Cap! I would remind you that we four parties have decided in the Presidential Conference that there should be a smooth course of the meetings and that we are therefore sparingly dealing with the instrument of intermediate calls. We have also agreed that there should be no intervening, and President Khol has summarized that in his presidency he will ensure that a reasonable handling of the instrument is ensured, and he has declared on his own that he will also indicate the quantity. He has therefore done nothing but what he has announced in the presidency in order to ensure a proper session procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e13367	I believe that we will continue to clarify this question at the Presidential Conference. I could read the passage in question from the President-in-Office's Protocol, but I am saving you this – unless it is desired. – This wish does not exist! Mr Cap, you are the next speaker. You've got 8 minutes. We are excited about your statements.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e13389	Mr Finanzminister! With a certain – how should I say it? – I had to take note of the fact that you tried to get back here behind formal legal formulations, which were likely to involve entire law firms in stealing from political responsibility. Only the way you described how it is with the calls of Dr. Christl makes this clear. – Of course, he will have called the potential organizer and said: It is possible that the Minister of Finance will come, but it would be desirable if a donation would grow over! Then the other one will have said: It's hard for me to imagine! Then he'll have said: But I can hardly imagine the Minister of Finance coming! Then the other one will have said: Maybe we have a donation! [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's how you did it!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That's how it was with you!]] Then he'll have said: Now we have an appointment for the Minister of Finance! – That’s how it will have been! That's the reality! That's the reality! How was it with the ads you didn't know anything about and read in the newspapers? – The Lord Christl will have said: What can my boss want in this difficult situation? I feel it, he wants ads! Mr. Christl will then have been excited about the phone and said: Now we make ads, and I also have a patron! – That was the industrial union, I suppose. That's how this happened! But you all think we're so stupid that we don't understand what reality looks like, and that's what I'm telling you, actually, the unheard of in the whole situation! The same is true of the question: When will a Minister be ready for withdrawal? – Until the handcuffs click? Or is there anything else between chair glue and handcuff clicks? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why I say to you: There is such a thing as a political responsibility! It's not just a question of optics. I've been here too long so I can't read in the faces: [[Abg. Neudeck: That's right!]] Stirring of individual ÖVP delegate, presumptuous headshake, eye contact over to us in the sense: How long are the ones up there?, malicious grins with FPÖ delegates. - That's how it looks! Why is the Minister of Finance still sitting here? – I can tell you that too! If he's no longer there, then Chancellor's bowl is halved in his power. That's the truth! Then one from the agricultural sector or from the Federal Chamber of Commerce or from the industrial sector is sitting on the government bank. Then he has to deal with a black lobbyist club again. – That’s easier! The grass is dependent. If he only snaps his fingers once, he's no longer Finance Minister. That is why the Federal Chancellor Schüssel is also Minister of Finance. That's how reality looks! And your smile confirms that to me! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But what do the advisory experts and employees in the Ministry of Finance think, who are also involved in associations and companies throughout this union, which in itself is immense? – They'll think: We no longer get a better finance minister in the Ministry of Finance! Then probably comes some where all the black ÖAAB males march in and in the ministry occupy the individual departments! So we advise him to stay! The advice also looks like, namely, that the best experts in the Republic who know best how to drive taxes also know best how to argue that you do not drive taxes! That's how the answers worked today! – This is the second group that wants the Minister of Finance to sit there. Then there is a third party, a single fighter, the State Secretary Finz. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] Which moves him to undress his chest, make himself, and say: First get in touch with me before you go to the Minister of Finance! – This will have been a confidential discussion by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany with the Secretary of State, where he will have been told by Schüssel: You have to earn your President of the Court of Auditors first! Bone work is underway! Come on, free your chest, she's wide enough anyway, stand back and defend the Minister of Finance! [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] You have enough knowledge to really do that! [[Abg. May. Molterer: The carnival Tuesday was yesterday!]] It's too early for the nervous Molterer to become a finance minister, he doesn't want to do that, he wants to wait a bit, so he wants the finance minister to sit up there a little bit. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] He's supposed to do some more unpopular things, and he's gonna run through the country like the Christian child. That's the concept behind it! Let's just take it to the simple point, let's not talk about the whirl: That's how it looks! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The most immense and the best was today the difference between private and private persons. It'll shake everyone out of laughter when he hears it. There's no difference! He says: That's helpful! I say: It's private! In reality, we mean the same thing. We mean the private person purely legal. In Austria, seven million lawyers are running around, who immediately understand that this is so meant. – This is the line of argument that is being developed there! But no one is asking for political responsibility! There is a moral standard on the government bank that is so deep that it is inconceivable. Of course you can say: My father just bought the shares like that! He had an inspiration! He woke up in the morning and said: I have to buy YLine shares, I feel it, I have such headaches! I have to buy them first, then I'm better! Then after some time he will have had an inspiration again and said: Oh, God, I've got such a headache again, I have to sell the YLine shares very urgently! You too – brilliant, completely without insider knowledge – have said: I have to get rid of the shares! [[Abg. Ellwall: The carnival is over!]] Now it's over! My instinct – the Ministry of Finance, an infallible instinct! –: Get rid of the shares! They're sitting there, head-shaking, head-shaking, hardly believing, but the parole is called: Hold on, hold on, hold on! [[Abg. Neudeck: Are you still with the consumer cooperative?]] – You should not make any calls at all, because you have ‘invented’ Mr Grasser in your group at all, and that he is sitting here today is, among other things, your ‘deed’. So stay out of this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: We didn't invent that! That's his performance!]] The question: Service time – leisure time? In the Ministry of Finance, the homepage is maintained. Three people sit there: The private person Grasser is actually sitting there, then he sits there as Minister of Finance, then as a non-participative third party. Then there is a homepage, which is private. Then there is a homepage, which is serviceable. Then there are people in the Ministry of Finance who work on the homepage. But in truth they don't work there, because they're sharing, and suddenly it's called, one hour is a private one. I mean, this is a single Sodom and Gomorrah that opens up! In view of this, you want to make us aware of formal legal arguments that this is all right! There's no one in your mind who's doing what's going on. Then it says: Of course, a homepage can cost 12 to 24 times. A finance minister homepage is technically so complicated that costs the 24 times! – Mr Finanzminister, to whom do you want to tell? All the institutions say it's ridiculous. The Minister of Finance wanted to create a “receptile fund” and, of course, he wanted to build power structures with money. That's behind it! But that's where he doesn't make himself and he admits. No, no, no, no, Bismarck was honest enough, he said: I need my “receptile funds” so that the newspapers report as I want to, so that the Bavarian king does not give up the emperor’s dignity! - That was clear. It was at least open and honest. The Minister of Finance says: no! He doesn't trust me. He says: They have representation fees! It was eaten, drunk, and the homepage costs 24 times! – Mr Finanzminister! How stupid do you think all those who have to listen to this every time? It's inconceivable what you're saying! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Therefore, of course, the request for distrust is more than right – once more than right! It may be that you have a moral standard like the rulers in the Roman Empire in the final phase. I'm just telling you: It took a thousand years there until they had this moral standard, you've reached it after four years! – That’s all right, that’s your thing, that’s what you have to represent to the voters! In any case, we say: There should be moral standards that do not make this way of dealing with you here possible! That's going to be You're not impressed, because for you, Parliament is a theatre. It is an important control device for us, and we have the right to comply with it!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e13612	The next speaker is Mr Neudeck. Speaking time: 5 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e13630	Mr President. Mr Bundeskanzler, I particularly welcome you. I voted against the fact that you have to come, but I am pleased that you have been willing to come. Mr Finanzminister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Cap or Mr Gusenbauer – this is not so easy with the clubmen – when you are touched, it doesn't bother me, just: If you cry, I can't help you, I don't have a handkerchief with you! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] – Gusenbauer said he was touched. Just in case you don't know why. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer.]] That's right! As long as you are not shaken, Mr Klubobmann, it is no problem at all – I am happy to take you touched. Mr Cap, your speech has shown that you are marked by decades of social democracy, where you call and say: A donation for a lecture! An advertisement at the Wiener Stadtwerke for a lecture or for a newspaper, or perhaps at the gasworks or waterworks, or at any other organization close to the SPÖ, as it is still in Vienna. – That’s exactly what living socialism is! Just as it is, you have suggested it very easily: As the bad guy thinks, so is he! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] You brought this great thing over. You didn't even have to think for a second, it's internal to you. In your opinion, it cannot go anywhere and give a talk because he wants to do something because he has ideas. No, it's got to be money. There's got to be a donation going somewhere. That's how you see it! – Your party! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] You know why you're where you are. Your head of state Häupl spends €40 million in Vienna – I told you the last time – for PR, and in view of this you want to make yourself here and say that a homepage cost a multiple?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Ellmauer: A madness!]] Mr. Zweitklubmann Cap! I have a press service here, where it is said that your colleague Schachner-Blazizek – I think he is close to SPÖ or a member of SPÖ – wanted to make a homepage in 1999. Then they somehow turned him off in the country day. At that time, the costs amounted to 3 million schillings. A homepage for a state captain representative, Landesrat of tax funds! - That's an insanity: 1999! If you're still adjusting this to the index! But in the SPÖ, that's usual, in the SPÖ that goes, in the SPÖ all this is not a problem. Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to point out that the questions are getting longer and bigger, because Parliamentarians' desire for knowledge is increasing. I see in the papers the ministerial officials who have to answer these questions in writing. There are thousands of requests, most of them from the Greens. Ladies and gentlemen! This is all a commercial problem, and there is a great solution: At the end of each fifth question, the President of the National Council shall write to the honourable Member who has signed it and point out the costs. And from this request, the Ministry also has to add which costs cause the answer to this request. That would be a good proposal. [[Call of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Thank you, colleague Matznetter! I've already believed you're not getting any better. Incarcerated, deputies. Do you know who the proposal is, colleague Herbs? He's coming to the key. In 1993 the Green Administrative Reform Speaker of the SPÖ Günther Herben proposed exactly what I have now said to you. This is the concept of democracy you have as long as you sit on the row! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr Cap says that something has happened to us in the motions for censure or in the committees of inquiry that we need so many people to agree. This happened at a time when you were in the government. Now you know what this is like. At that time you gave no faith to the arguments. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, Mr Van der Bellen, too, has not succeeded in putting SPÖ's unscrupulous scandalization machinery on serious legs. He tried. You have also failed to do so with the reference to the failed coalition talks. Ladies and gentlemen! For five years in Carinthia, social democracy has tried to put the head of state in a certain corner by means of ministerial charges, criminal charges, committees of inquiry. I'm telling you, it won't be paid for you there, and it won't be paid at federal level. With a policy without arguments, based on raptures and on the bad-making of people, you will not continue. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Take a look at your own party. Your network around Matznetter and others! There's a lot to do there.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e13706	Next word: Mr Mag. Kogler. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e13724	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Gentlemen on the government bank! One is actually wondering – and in so far as I can follow you, Federal Minister for Finance – what is actually going on in the Republic. You really wonder what's going on. Don't be yelling “Aschirdi Wednesday” again! It is indeed a bit more serious, because you have discovered something like the compassion campaign on the forward, so to speak, on the flight forward, that is new. By the way, it is not good for you, it counters all that you have done so far, when you are larrating about pre-conception and campaign, which has already been chronic for seven months before the collapse, as you always say. The point is, however, that no one has to make a constant effort at this campaign, as you suspect, but that they are themselves – and this has almost a tragic element – which is constantly going forward with attempts to escape. Find a new fat nap, which washed in as far as it sprays away right away. [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Grasser.]] – Yes, then the whitewasher comes, exactly, thank you for the note! – This is your problem: Every attempt to escape to the front ends in a new self-esteem. And that's what you need to live with, and leave us in the herb! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In fact, it is really so – that was the point where we could agree to you – that we also ask ourselves whether we should not have more important things to do, whether there was nothing more important in this Republic, where the opposition, by the way, has made very proposals, everyone for itself. There are many proposals. But as long as we have to deal with this problem, that such an unbelievable representation in substantial and decisive parts of the Federal Government more or less, one must say, work around and, in fact, be unable to act itself, this whole department of the Federal Government – you should already admit – must also turn to this problem. But you'll open it yourself. Therefore, do not assign this to the opposition! I must also tell you that because it was not the case that the Greens had such special reservations in the first year of their term of office. On the contrary, we must now ask ourselves how this could happen to us. Why did we fall for a disguise artist? We may have to go to court hard. But what you say is wrong. It didn't exist. And finally take note that there is a serial link between actions that you have long made impossible in your office, leading to these constant requests and mistrusts here. You have to take note of that now. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This should also be noted by the Federal Chancellor. But we have already had the explanation, which presupposes a situation of interest here. In fact, we have to deal with these things all the time here – and you too – because the Federal Chancellor is not able, but above all is not willing to assume his responsibility and to release Mr. Finz and Mr. Grasser from their responsibilities. It would have helped everyone anyway. That is why we will continue to do so if your advance defence continues. We will continue to inform Members here in the House so that they cannot later say that they did not know anything – you know the argument. That's also part of our job, and that's part of it. We'll take that. We would also prefer to do something else, you can believe us, but there is a distribution of roles in a parliament, and at least we are aware of them. And you shouldn't be delegating, but you should draw the necessary consequences yourself. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In the matter itself the confirmation was followed again on foot. It won't be better. Your wording alone, Mr. Federal Minister for Finance! literally: “We have taken over a capital market.” Who “we”? – The Federal Government takes over the capital market? I think you've been taken over by the capital market. In any case, that is still true. In any case, you have been hired by the Industrial Union. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] They've been assigned to the service. And it fits like a rhetorical figure on it, the attempts to escape, as far as the possible way out in the fiscal situation is concerned, that a construction is chosen here, where one must already look back on the fact that the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Austria is at least a member of the association to promote the New Economy, whatever the association is, or possibly even indirectly via the Industrial union. You need to get hold of this construction so that you can look over it at all. [[the speaker makes a corresponding hand movement]] And that's the story you have to answer! But we are not at all unkind about this legal figure, which is in fact a rhetorical figure describing your whole mess, which you are still wearing before yourself. It is really not to help you! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is likely that State Secretary Finz has also come to this disaster victim comparison. I need Klubobmann. Correct Van der Bellen in this one point: It is in this matter that you, Mr State Secretary, quoted, even concerned victims of disasters and flood victims. The comparison can only be made if one considers that the person concerned is the water up to here. We're glad you at least realized that. At this point, I should like to turn briefly to the announced motion for a reluctance against Mr Finz's Secretary of State. I'm pointing out what's been on the 11th. July, since this wonderful whitewashing – you don't want to hear that, I know – has happened. Nothing's gotten better. They have always defended everything, totally without any criticism, that is the problem. And our impression is that you are here reorganising the office of Secretary of State as Secretary of the Party, and we now consider that to be unbearable after a long period of respect. That's it. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I should therefore like to make the following request at this point: [[Quoted print version removed]] As far as the accusations to the Minister of Finance or the answer to the questions or, in fact, the non-response are concerned, the following can be summarized and summarized: In my opinion, as far as the government's advertising campaign is concerned, it is clear that: In Austria, government campaigns are now obviously falling from heaven! No one knows anything about it; obviously no one from this federal government is responsible for government campaigns. – Is also sausage, because that pays for the industrial union anyway! And that's how the overall construction looks. Say goodbye, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, to your responsibility! Good luck with this! There has been one who was fair enough, and I would like to quote it here, Mr. Kramer, who said to Christl – how does he come to say that To tell the public? –: That's not a good thing, that throws a sharp light on the Minister of Finance! - How right Kramer has! But you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, can no longer explain to us that all this has not been so! It's so ridiculous that you don't have to stop with it any longer! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is similar with the donations and fees: at the time a fund was set up. You know what? – At the time when these entire honors are intruded – by chance, of course, without asking for counter. – there was no social fund at all, because you were still talking about a foundation at the time. And that's not the same thing, you know that very well! You, Mr. Finanzminister, only went very late with the idea of the foundation – and at the end of the day you had to hold this idea with the Social Fund. This is also not going to bring much of the so-called open-airs, and by the way, this raises only more open questions anyway. An example of this – one point I am still dealing with –: the question of commissioning FistInEx with two relatively parallel operations, twice with the homepage, once with the homepage of Minister Grasser and once with the one of the association to promote the New Economy, where you, Minister Grasser, had nothing to do with it, but then you are the beneficiary. At the same time, it took place! I have been concerned about the call for proposals in Brussels: There are loud criteria inside that you have described here, the FirstInEx is not able to meet. This company would have been released from the beginning. But you, Mr. Minister, have failed to do so because at the same time there was the negotiation with the “New Economy” association. That is why, Federal Minister Grasser, you have not answered the question of who was sitting in the award commission: even Mathias Winkler, who at the same time came in at the other door as a representative of “New Economy” and who has promised the same company a contract, which is completely overstated. That is what you, Mr Federal Minister, do not understand that it is publicly to be separated from private. With this understanding we should clean up – and that is why we also make a request regarding the failure of confidence in the Federal Minister for Finance, which is: Resolution of Deputies Mag. Werner Kogler, Dr Christoph Matznetter, colleagues on the refusal of confidence towards the Federal Minister for Finance, introduced in the course of the debate on the urgent question put by Van der Bellen, Pilz, Kogler, colleagues The National Council wants to decide: The Federal Minister for Finance is in accordance with the nature. 74 B-VG trust failure. That's all you need to say. And that was my final sentence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e13950	The first motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kogler, Mr Matznetter, Mr Matznetter, on the refusal of confidence towards the State Secretary at the Federal Ministry of Finance is sufficiently supported and is expressly approved. You know that it was once a controversial legal question whether a State Secretary is a member of the Federal Government and is covered by Article 74 B-VG. This has been clarified unanimously in the 1991 Presidential Conference; science too is almost unanimous in this opinion. This request is therefore to be voted on. The second request made by Mr Kogler, Mr Matznetter, Mr Matznetter, Mr Matznetter, Mr Matznetter, Mr Matznetter, Mr Matznetter, on the refusal of confidence towards the Federal Minister of Finance is equally supported and is voted upon after the end of the debate. I would like to inform you here that there has been a request for a vote. The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Finz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e13985	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Minister! High house! I should like to introduce a brief period of time for the examination of the tax and tax duty of the Federal Minister for Finance and the New Economy Association. We've been on 20 on 20 May. In June 2003, the examination of this legal question was carried out in the independent area of activity of a State Secretary, as provided for in the Federal Constitution. I have not received any guidance and, of course, if such a thing had been tried, I would have rejected such an instruction. The review of the tax and tax liability was carried out independently by the competent financial authorities, namely the Financial Office for Fees and Taxation and the Financial Office for the 4th, 5th and 10th. Wiener Gemeindebezirk. I have also given no guidance to these financial authorities, which are solely responsible, but have explained from the outset, in the way of the President of the Financial Directorate, that I do not want to see an interim result and not to participate in a meeting. And that's how it was kept. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] ==References== In July 2003, I was presented with the results of this examination by the two financial offices, which on the following day Mr. Grasser and the association chairman, Mr Mag. Winkler, you've been handed over. The assessment by the tax authorities – and I would like to make this clear again here in the House – took place entirely independently. The legal opinion of these two financial offices was given by a well-known expert in national and international tax law at the Vienna University of Economics, namely, by Mr. Univ.-Prof. Michael Lang, in an APA issue, dated 11. ==References====External links== – I would like to hold on to this because You're always just talking about another professor here. High house! In my opinion, the political debate on this issue is beginning to develop in a direction that is more than worrying. Two statements of the past few days make this particularly clear. Mr Kogler, who is also the chairman of the Court of Auditors' Committee, met on 19 July. February to the “standard” versus the following – I quote –: “That alone would have to be enough to blow out the light to the ghost Finz.” – Yes, that’s a “good” statement. [[Abg. Lentsch: That's nice!]] The Federal Spokesman of the Greens, Mr. University Professor Dr. Van der Bellen, took place on Monday, 23. February, also published in the Standard, said: “It’s just what he’s been doing in the meantime” – I mean, Finz – “has put up on helpless and silly attempts of whitewashing for grassers.” [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I would ask you not to abandon the previous political culture which has not known such statements! End your persistent discreditation attempts, and return to the competition of political ideas – for the benefit of the Austrian population – because you will see: Finally, all accusations will go into emptyness and prove to be completely unstoppable! Ladies and gentlemen! The accusation that I'm making “difficults of whitewashing” is an injunction and will not be founded even by your countless repetitions! I have said from the outset that I have not influenced the investigations by the competent authorities in any form! You won't be able to show me that I'd ever done that! If you, Mr Van der Bellen, accuse me of ‘whitewashing’, I can only point out that I would have tried to influence the competent financial authorities in a certain direction. If I'd done that: This would be the accusation that I have committed abuse of office – but not only I, but also those responsible for financial officials, including those of the President-in-Office of the Financial State Directorate, two board members of the Financial Offices as well as the speakers on tax issues. Throw all those It is practically a premise of abuse of office. [[Abg. Oellinger: We have not accused you of abuse of office!]] - Well, what's that? ‘whitewashing’?- Oh, my God! – That is to say, I would have influenced a procedure in a certain direction. [[Abg. Oillinger: No, no, it works differently!]] For those staff who can't defend themselves here as I can, I'm going to point this out to you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e14081	Mr Lopatka is next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e14099	Federal Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! When Mr Finz said that the time would come for criminal investigations to be stopped, you were shaken by the SPÖ. – To this end, I can quote the APA of 16.54 a.m. – that is, relatively young: ‘Justice makes criminal investigations against grasses.’ [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: Look here!]] Professor Van der Bellen! Here's what it says: ‘Justice makes criminal investigations against grasses.’ [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: How fast is that?]] Yeah, it's going so fast! [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Can I tell you something? – That was a long period of time! It took a long time for justice to arrive at this time, which we have always seen coming! Nine months – Mr Puswald, nine months! – it took. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] Professor Van der Bellen, Dr. Pilz, Dr. Cap, Mag. Kogler: You all talked a lot here today, but you didn't say anything new, but you didn't say anything new! And that's the problem of opposition: There is a need to keep something at the corner here, which is now the case of the judicial system...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e14165	Mr Puswald! That's what it was. Your fifth call from the bank! I remember that we agreed that we would not do that! – The speaker speaks at the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e14181	Ladies and gentlemen! The dilemma of the opposition shows: The opposition has a problem, and its problem is simple and simply the successful work of the Federal Government! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Prammer.]] If you don't have anything to do with this on an objective level, you're trying for the x-th time today – and this was a dangerous threat that you're going to continue – with personal attacks to make the main players of this successful course bad. But slowly it's going to be fad! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] If I just look in the SPÖ ranks – I see only more very, very few sitting here anyway – and if I Her faces see some reading the “Kurier”, others reading another daily, then I have to say: There are only one or two who are doing this to join this mandatory ritual here, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Bures: Because it's so sad!]] Fadesse and disinterest are also seen in the greens, but after you have no counter-conception in the work in question, you are also trying to continue the same. The big difference to the past is only, Professor Van der Bellen, that you can get involved here now! This surprises me, because the SPÖ has missed it before the election, Karl-Heinz Grasser sustainable – so it has literally said in the study: sustainable – to disavow. This was the SPÖ concept commissioned by the Federal Managing Directors Kuntzl and Bures. – Before the election, however, one was too slow and has slept again and again. But now, after the election so far, nine months, there is only one topic: Karl-Heinz Grasser to disavow sustainable! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] Who were the main actors in the tax reform? – It was Karl-Heinz Grasser, Federal Chancellor Schüssel and, of course, State Secretary Finz. And that's also the reason why he's now being taken in the drawing, ladies and gentlemen. I quote the two most renowned German-speaking newspapers for this work only briefly – if you do not want to give us any faith – and that is now the “Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung” and the “Neue Zürcher Zeitung”. "Frankfurter Allgemeine" ("Frankfurter Allgemeine"). Years of this year: Austria's conservative government has achieved a large throw with its draft tax reform. The key points presented give the middle class a clear relief. - Quote. Even more clearly the “New Zurichs” – and I only read to you the headline of 27. January before, I don't want to bore you –: Grasser as master of household execution. - Quote. Should it not be the policy we are doing to secure jobs or to create new jobs? Wouldn't that be our common topic? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] Mr Oellinger! Because In between, they call and are more Upper Austrian: I suppose you have already read the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” today; others will not have. You will like the first word: Green light for the Voest: In Linz, investment is like never before. 950 new jobs are expected to bring the Linz 2010 project. - Quote. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] That is what Karl-Heinz Grasser succeeds with his financial policy and what this Federal Government is doing! The head of the Voest, Eder, has recently said it clearly: It was the tax reform that led him to invest to such a high degree. – This is Austria’s largest industrial investment of €2 billion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bures.]] Or: At MAGNA in Styria, 1 000 new jobs are created! – You do not want to take note of all of this, you want to put it under the carpet, because it’s about you to desavour Karl-Heinz Grasser in a sustainable way. Do you know how he took over the financial facility in 2000? – Austria, under Minister of Finance, was Edlinger in Europe on 14th and thus in the leading position of the 15 EU countries. Only Portugal was behind us, so we were second worst in the European Union at the time. Today, after four years of Minister of Finance Karl-Heinz Grasser, we have overtaken more than half of the EU's members, picked up eight places and so worked forward! But this is not just the case in the budget deficit. Ladies and gentlemen! We also have twice as high growth as the other countries in the European Union together! And this is with one reason why we always refer to red-green in Germany, because of course we see that our policy is the counter-model, namely the successful model, which is a hundred percent different from what red-green is doing in Germany! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Neudeck! Schachner-Blazizek enforced it at the time: He spent more than 3 million on the homepage. But that was just the one side of the medal. Do you know what the other side of the medal looks like? Do you know who received this award? – The former Styrian Juso chief Jörg Paller. But everything has been done objectively, and the process has been strongly defended by the Styrian SPÖ. [[Abg. Neudeck: We don't want to feel that deep in the swamp now!]] Colleagues will remember well, because the other Land Councils of the SPÖ in the Styria also had homepages set up by more than 1 million schillings. – But it was only tax money, it was only tax money! [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's how it is!]] Schachner-Blazizek as SPÖ-Chairman had to document this, of course: His homepage devoured more than 3 million schillings at the time. And 1999 has not been that long! Where'd there be excitement? – There was no excitement at the SPÖ! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] That's why I'm asking you: Who deserves mistrust here, who deserves confidence here? – Our 100% trust deserves a finance minister who makes such a successful policy that you can only be given a positive witness in all international media and also among us by those who look at the matter objectively. – The policy has to measure Karl-Heinz Grasser at work, and this is above average successful!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e14311	Mr Matznetter. 7 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e14341	Mr President. The Federal Chancellor is gone. Mr Finanzminister! Mr State Secretary, at the same time Head of Branch and Deputy to the IV in the Himmelpfortgasse! [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: But that's not very funny!]] High house! It's really not funny! Mr Bartenstein's statement today is indeed at the heart of politics! This morning we discussed how the first significant consequences of alleged non-intrusion to existing pensioners' rights can be compensated with a small 0.6-one-time payment. But you are not talking about you taking away the pensioners by 2006 in total over € 1 billion, which Mr. Branch Manager – without any connection, I hope, with the payments! – when a gift is distributed precisely to those gentlemen at Schwarzenbergplatz who have previously shown themselves so benevolently. – But let us return to the content of the urgent question. The Social Fund: The Minister of Finance answers here and today that a donation in connection with the above-mentioned lecture was given on 23. In 2003 the Social Fund had gone to the Social Fund. – I'm sorry, Minister! This is not due to the number of years! Unless you are able to have time machines and make time trips, there was neither a Karl-Heinz-Grasser Social Fund in January 2003 nor in February 2003 nor a Karl-Heinz-Grasser Social Fund in June 2003. – However, what was available at this time was an account with Notar Dr. Weißmann. You have threatened me with a complaint if I claim that this flow has taken place with you. To this I answered – publicly –: If it is true that another person can have this account in such a way that it can permanently devote the amount of the amounts on the account to the Fund, then I will be happy to withdraw an arbitrary charge in this respect. Unfortunately, the public has not yet been aware of the content of this declaration of commitment, which is absolutely necessary in accordance with the Federal Law on Foundations and Funding: The fund founder has notaryly confirmed his commitment to an asset. – There’s no stronger way to spend money than to devote it irrevocably! If this statement, Mr Minister, takes place only one day after the payment has been received, then you have a big problem. And there's nothing to help you if the beautiful speaker of Dr. Böhmdorfer – I don't think of what he's called – explains: Now the preliminary survey is set. One day, this question will be crucial: Have funds been flown from third side to you? Now we are coming to the Social Fund because in this context you are talking about a missing social vein of the others. – Do not be ashamed if you first announce large amounts of the Social Fund and say that you will devote €40 000, but then in the press release by Dr. Weißmann of 6. February 2004 is that you were the person who paid only €1,000? Are you not ashamed that people have paid funds that have really believed that the additional donations for the children are within the framework of the fund? In fact, if it were so that the fund would have been set up by you with the €40 000, then this fund would already have €79 000 with the €39 000 of the other donors. But the payment of the ladies, gentlemen, banks and all the others served only to compensate for your lack of willingness. But no one has forced you to set up the account! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] Mr Neudeck, I am coming to the problems you had with him as a financial reference to the FPÖ. [[The speaker points to Federal Minister Mag. Grass]] The history of the lectures is even longer. Let us look back into the past, at the beginning of your ministerial activity! Why did the FPÖ have to raise its magical 60 000 S net limit? - Because he wasn't willing to go down to 60,000 s! Because of Karl-Heinz Grasser was raised to 66 000 s! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Neudeck.]] Because of Karl-Heinz Grasser was charged with money from the FPÖ Social Fund in 2002, by the way! He himself has confirmed that there were these claims and that he has answered you that he has nothing to pay you as financial agents of the FPÖ. And he also said why he didn't have to pay it because he paid 150 000 S for two families in 2001. So far, we have only one presentation with 50 000 S, because it is contained in the presentation of its tax advisor. We don't know anything about the other one from 2001 at the level of 100 000 S; you could tell us that. We know, however, that he announced for 2002 – for he himself wrote – that he had donated €5,500 for three families. – If you look at and sort out the issue of your tax advisor, then of the € 7,500 – by the way, by the chance always the amount to be expected by the bank institutions – € 2 000 went to a foundation in Salzburg and was transferred by the Carinthian Raiffeisenbank exactly for three families € 5 500. So what's right? Is what he has told you, Mr Neudeck, that he has donated it, or is it true that no one has asked, but that the donation came from the Raiffeisenbank? We shall also be clarifying this question. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] Let us return to the question of social use. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] We're coming to Y-Line right now, don't be afraid! I would just like to point out what this €10,000 could include, I just want to maintain the legal substrate: It was claimed by the government bank that a pre-foundation phase should already be attributed to the Fund. In this context, Grasser referred to the corporate tax directives. However, this is precisely the opposite! There reference is made to civil existence from the date on which the foundation is established by instrument or statute. The Statute, Mr State Secretary, is now being established. Legal existence begins according to your own Stiftung guidelines, paragraph 24, only at the time of the admissibility declaration! [[Abg. Neudeck: You're interested in Austria!]] And before that time there is no legal person, and before that there is no such thing as the GmbH, a pre-founding company, because there is no company! But before that, there was an account on which money was entered. And through the account, exactly that person's authority that has entered into the trust agreement – that is, you as a person, and I say that it was the private person grasser! – and which then has the full sum of 40 211 S in a statement. And he can have it because the entire amount is to be attributed to him personally. On this point everything, as I believe, is crystal clear, and therefore your farewell, Mr Minister, is unfortunately not to be prevented in the medium term. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] Why Did I Say “Sufferer ”? – Mr Neudeck, I tell you: We from the opposition ask the party political question: Does a good day begin with a Karl-Heinz Grasser who has remained in office? – Yes, we use it, it hurts you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You threw in the tag Y-Line: I'll just stay with FirstInEx because I don't have much time. – A brief note: Papa Grasser was involved in FirstInEx as a founding shareholder. It was a coincidence. We don't talk about families. Let me know if it was the same with Y-Line! Then you'll be easier to do! Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e14439	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. Voluntary limit on speaking time: 5 minutes; 10 minutes of legal speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e14457	Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I have been thinking for a long time today whether I should be here today and speak on this item on the agenda. – As you can see, I am a decision-making person, and that's why I stand here. I am therefore standing here because I believe that once I have to be stressed that it is no longer funny – that would be the wrong word – but is already very laborious for a Member who is actually in Parliament to work for days, weeks and months to deal with the same thing, namely: Homepage: yes – no? Financing: yes – no? Where does the money come from? Where did it go? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] There are different bodies for this! These bodies will clarify this. There is, at least from my side, a very clear position, which the ladies and gentlemen know here in the House. Until then, this isn't a topic for me! Until then – and this is my topic! – we are here to work: The mandates are here to work, and the minister is here to work. – That’s exactly why I’m standing here now, because there are other things that move people, apart from this theme that has been so megaimportant for months now. In Vorsberg in Carinthia there was strong flood last year. Everyone has heard of it, they all know about it. Austria has been donated, the government has also invested a lot of money. Among other things – this is perhaps not as important to you as the affair you raised, but it is important for those who are concerned there – there is the agricultural community Vorderberg there. This farming community, consisting of several farmers, has been saving money for ten years to be able to use it sometime when it is important. I was on a campaign tour in this municipality and I had a conversation with the chairman of the agricultural community, and that brought me to the point of why I am here today. This agricultural community now wants to disburse these funds. In this context, it has now been argued that, on the basis of a 2001 regulation – which I had already tried to evade at the time, or I intervened with the Minister in order to avoid it – 25 percent of KEST must be paid. This means that these farmers have to pay around 2 million Schilling taxes in the distribution of 8 million Schilling now, and that is really bad for them, and all the more so when you know that donations have been collected throughout Austria to rebuild this place. That is why I thought that if the Minister is here today – it is not always easy to see him – I would like to hand over to him the letter from the agricultural community, which is also supported by me, and to ask him to work – as is expected by parliamentarians and ministers – and not to be constantly concerned with the pollution and desulphurization of the opposition, but to ensure that these farmers in Vorderberg – possibly on the basis of a derogation – get out of these funds without tax, what they need to do with the restoration of their goods. – Mr Minister, please help us with this!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e14503	The next speaker is Mrs Bures. 5 minutes speaking time, Mrs Colleague. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e14521	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Scheuch, I am not surprised that you have rightly asked yourself why you have even taken up the speaker's seat. Their statements have shown that it was completely pointless anyway. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame.]] I can tell you, it's ridiculous when you talk about the fact that there are bodies. Of course, there are parliamentary bodies, for example the small committee of inquiry. What was in the small investigation committee? [[Abg. Neudeck: Subcommittee!]] – You tried to hide everything there. They have tried there to prevent all the informers – whether Mr Winkler was from the Ministry of Finance or the representatives of Lehman Brothers – from actually speaking and responding to this Parliament, the public and the Committee. In other words, there are bodies, but in recent weeks you have tried nothing but to hide everything and stand behind the whitewashing of the Secretary of State for Finance. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe, however, that one has become clear, namely what kind of moral image is given here, when one hears from the yacht friends of the Minister of Finance, who increase their wealth, through speculations, to personal enrichments, when one hears that there are real estate investors in the near environment, who are cashing at the expense of taxpayers broker commissions and consultants, when one hears that school friends of the Minister of Finance receive homepage orders in an order of € 283 000. Federal Minister! Do you know how high the average income of a worker in Austria is? – It is 1 073 €. It has to work 20 years to get to the money you make so easy for baby photos on the net. [[Abg. May. Molterer: What do you say to Schachner-Blazizek?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] If one hears that Mr Winkler, who has not even been in the committee, is your new club chairman, who obviously does not care very carefully about the money, then this shows a moral image that rightly outrags the majority of the population, because it makes it clear that, if I am thinking about the pension debate this morning, you want to be very economical with those who actually need our help and support, namely micro-pensionists, that you are very, very generous when it comes to yourself, and that you are very generous when it comes to your friends up to Mr Papa in the vicinity. [[Abg. Ellwall: You voted against this!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Why did you just reject it?]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: You just refused!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: You just said no to the increase!]] Federal Minister! I think today has also become clear that you are increasingly entangled in contradictions. The contradictions of the association, whether the homepage is public or private, are already so embarrassing that it can hardly be endured anymore. Mr. Federal Minister, you have spoken about the association and the homepage – you have told us here in Parliament – being private. The State Secretary Alfred Finz took place on 11 July. In July, Parliament said: The homepage has only fulfilled service purposes because it has served to represent the policy of the Minister.This was particularly embarrassing especially in connection with the baby photos, which are of course particularly important to the Minister of Finance. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bayr.]] And today you're making yourself up again: The Secretary of State says that this is helpful; You say that's private. – He has now, as it were, come to an end, Mr. Finanzminister. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No!]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser returns to his place from the other end of the government bank.]] But probably he makes another contradictory statement. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Don't look too early!]] Then you say: We agree that this is all completely private. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] You're talking about contradictions: 175,000 €; suddenly it's 283,000 € that you've got. They seem to be sending information to tomorrow’s “NEWS”: The financial office remains there, the association is tax-free. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: I haven't put anything, please!]] It doesn't take 30 minutes for this financial office to sit down and clearly dementate it. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: I didn't do anything, Madam Member!]] The Financial Office, namely the Financial Office 4, 5 and 10 in Vienna, has never given you this personal license, because they are not responsible there at all. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser:... the untruth!]] Mr State Secretary! You have said that you have also commissioned the responsible Vienna Finance Office 4, 5 and 10. Mr Hofrat Stöger said: We have no competence here to actually examine this. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: This is not the fee finance office...!]] That is why you, Mr State Secretary, have also said the untruth here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] They have commissioned non-responsible jobs, and you are actually trying to prove this persilicate, this whitewashing, and are only getting more involved in contradictions. [[Abg. Neudeck: You don't even know what it's all about!]] Mr Finanzminister! You have been involved in contradictions, you are unbelievable in your policy, and you are obviously unable or unwilling to decide between right and wrong. [[Abg. Scheibner: You got trapped!]] That's why you're ready for withdrawal!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e14790	For now, the last speaker on the speaker list has been Mr. Dr. Kräuber. 3 minutes of speaking time, then your group's speaking time is over. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e14809	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I shall start with the Minister of Finance, who has spoken of a "polluting political campaign". “Sudel campaign” calls Klubobmann Molterer calls it Fassleven the debate about the homepage "Schutzkübel-Kampagne". [[Abg. May. Molterer: Where?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I quote something from the “Small Newspaper”, which is the largest national newspaper in Austria, anything but a left-wing newspaper. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] What does Dr. Ulrich Stocker, a well-honored journalist, write in-house political one of the most important? – In his “weekly show”, he says that the main topics of the Wednesday session of the National Council will be the pension mess and mole of the Minister of Finance and his crew. Or for Thursday he announces: “The new twilight of the Minister of Finance towards Parliament will hardly be dealt with emotionally at Question Time...” Ladies and gentlemen, do you seriously want to say that the honorous journalist Dr. Ulrich Stocker is a rabid "fuck" emptyer or similar? Because you like to quote German newspapers so much – the Minister of Finance has done it with enthusiasm, Fassleven has done it, Lopatka has done it –: You should quote completely and perhaps also use the “South German newspaper. ” There it says: In other countries Grasser should have resigned for a long time, and in other countries of Europe, Italy, Grasser, whose thickest thing is the case with the interception hunters – and we will come to this House too – probably had to resign for a long time. – So the “Süddeutsche Zeitung”. But you too, Mr State Secretary, should resign because you have said the untruth here in Parliament. ==References== In July I quoted from an internal instruction to the financial authority in the Causa Grasser: ‘To all: Questions to Karl-Heinz Grasser – The message is: Ladies and gentlemen! Any questions about the Federal Minister Mag. Karl-Heinz Grasser or questions about an association in connection with his person are exclusive to the press office, Mag. Winkler, persons to be passed on or requested are in power. Winkler. ... With kind greetings.” It is a blessing, ladies and gentlemen, that Stenographical protocols are being produced in the Austrian Parliament, where intermediate calls are also recorded: ‘State Secretary Dr. Finz: That is not true!" – Mr Finz, it is true! Here's the original document. [[The speaker handed over a document to State Secretary Dr. Finz.]] You did not say the truth here in Parliament, so you should withdraw! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Karl-Heinz Grasser is supposed to go, I've covered the nose! – That does not say any evil “sudel campaigner”, but your official, the Tyrolean AK President Fritz Dinkhauser, and he wishes for a little Christian-social orientation of the People’s Party. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] I have to tell you the following: With this statement, this man – your partyman, colleague Molterer! – achieves a flexible election outcome, although it belongs to the ÖVP. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] Karl-Heinz Grasser should go, all have “the nose full”!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e14882	Mrs Moser has also spoken. The speaking time of your group is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e14901	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Dear Minister of Finance! Dear Secretary of State! One thing is very strange and worrying, ladies and gentlemen: that you say here that we should return to political work if a basic political consensus is violated by you. [[Call the ÖVP:Yes!]] This is worrying for me, because a basic political consensus has a political morality, and we are discussing and fighting for it today. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This can't become commonplace! In view of the fact that a finance minister is most generously sponsored by a representative of interest, it cannot be transferred to everyday work. We cannot afford to do this in a political way! It is unique in Europe that the Austrian Parliament must have such a constellation, that a finance minister – he has said it himself – had to step before Parliament several times, even before the Federal Council, had to ask himself several times urgent questions and other questions, and still does not have the consequences, although it has already whistled the squats from the roofs and the various media – including foreign – clearly pointed out that Mr Finanzminister's behaviour is beyond the political morale and moves beyond the basic political consensus. That's what's outrageous about us, and that's why our clubman comes out and makes a urgent request here as the last option, so that you will finally be public about what you can in secret already admit to the couloirs: that this finance minister is no longer portable. [[Abg. Scheibner: On the couloirs?]] It is simply no longer politically portable for you, for it has not only contained itself in Parliament several times, but has, above all, pushed forward the constant mixing of private and political. This is, as it were, the politically corrupting long-term activity, but we want to turn our backs on it, and therefore this urgent question! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner:... that you explain this to us now!]] I just want to take one aspect out. The Minister has clearly revealed himself in answering the question 10, which referred to the association and addressed this association and, above all, its private aspects. He has repeated: yes, the association is private; in the same breath you have also said, Minister: he serves Karl-Heinz Grasser in the role of the Minister of Finance. - That's not possible, they're two pairs of shoes! Either the association is private, then it has nothing to do with the Minister of Finance, with this public function; or the association serves the Minister of Finance, then it is a public history and not private. There's only one or two, there's no both, Mr. Minister. This has to be clearly stated here again, and this is also the scale by which normally such concerns are measured internationally. I refer only to your colleagues in the Federal Republic of Germany and their political morals, especially on the conservative side of Parliament, because this is my main point and my main criticism point. For example, your colleague, Lothar Späth, has resigned in Baden-Württemberg when he was shown to have received sponsored holiday trips from industrial companies. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Have you read the “profile”, gel? Are not your own stories!]] That was a reason for withdrawal. – There is a Finance Minister who can sponsor a homepage and still sit and sit down! [[Abg. Großruck: He didn't go on holiday with the homepage!]] A second example from your area Please think of Kurt Biedenkopf! [[Call to the liberals:Mölemann!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] There it went by 68 € to a discount of 68 € at a furniture purchase. He has resigned as Prime Minister – but here is a Finance Minister who can be sponsored by the Industrial Association Long-term, then closes the sponsored funds into a network of friends and possibly feeds any reptile funds. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Also resigned: Özdemir! A green man!]] Please, this Minister of Finance is still sitting here, and next to that, a Secretary of State, Finz, sits in his capacity and resorts back to some of the times that have been past by taking this – I come to the conclusion – to criticise the President of the Court of Auditors, because something which, according to Mr Finz, seems to be beyond the Court of Auditors' powers: because it allows itself to review something! [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] [[Abg. May. Mainoni: The bonus miles of Mr. Özdemir of the Greens!]] You, Mr State Secretary, should have been working here for a long time, strengthening the Court of Auditors and not criticizing him. That is why our motion for censure to you, because you are so enslaved in your very own matter and are covering the back of Mr Finanzminister! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e15048	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Kogler, Dr. Matznetter, colleagues on the refusal of confidence towards the State Secretary in the Federal Ministry of Finance pursuant to Article 74(1). 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act. I expressly note the presence of half of the Members required for this decision-making of the National Council. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to do so. – The request does not find the necessary majority, it is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote - this will be a vote with votes, ladies and gentlemen - on the motion for a resolution by Members Mag. Kogler, Dr. Matznetter, colleagues on the failure to trust the Federal Minister for Finance in accordance with Article 74(l). 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act. As mentioned above, the presence of half of the Members is necessary. I expressly note these again. The vote has been taken by 20 Members. It should therefore be carried out. The ballots to be used are in the drawers of the Members' House and bear the name of the Deputies as well as the name "Yes" – these are the grey ballots – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. So whoever is in favour of the request for distrust uses the gray “yes ” vote, who is against, the pink “No ” vote mark. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I now ask Mr Wimmer to begin with the name call; Mr Jakob Auer will replace him later.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e15133	Did all give their votes? – That seems to be the case. The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make their votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. The meeting will be suspended for this purpose. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e15167	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 178, of which ‘Yes’ votes: 83, No votes: 95. The motion for a resolution on the refusal of confidence towards the Federal Minister for Finance has therefore not reached the necessary majority and is therefore rejected. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Contrary to the result announced by President Dr. Khol, the actual number of ‘yes’ votes is 82.]] [[At the time of the announcement of the vote, 83 ‘Yes’ votes were wrongly announced because a name card had been given twice. However, the President's finding that the request was rejected did not change anything.]] According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure shall be incorporated into the Stenographic Protocol with the names of the Members of Parliament indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Bauer, Bayr, Mulder, Binder, Brosz, Broukal, Bures; Cap, Csörgits; Dobnigg; Eder, one; Faul, Fleckl; Gaál, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Glavishnig, Grossmann, Green Forest, Gusenbauer, Hagenhofer, Haidlmayr, Heinisch-Hosek, Heinzl, Hoscher; Jarolim; Kaipel, Keck, Kogler, Königsberger-Ludwig, Krainer, Herbs, Crist, Kummerer, Kuntzl; varnishes, laps, lights, lunacek; Maier Johann, Marizzi, Matznetter, Moser Gabriela, Moser Hans, Muttonen; Niederwieser, Nürnberger; Oberhaidinger, oillinger; Parnigoni, Pendl, Pepper, Pilz, Pirklhuber, Prehauser, Prammer, Puswald; Rada, Reheis, Rest-Hintersief, Riepl; Sburny, Sharer, Schasching, Schieder, Schönpass, Schopf, Silhavy, Sima, Spindelberger, Stadlbauer, Steier, Stoisits; Trunk; Van der Bellen, Vergestnitsch; Walther, Weinzinger, Wimmer, Wittmann, Worm. Members voted with ‘No’: Achleitner, Amon, Auer Jakob, Auer Klaus Hubert; Bleckmann, Böhm, Bösch, Brader, Brinek, Bucher; Dolinschek, Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert; Edelwall, Eßl; Fassleven, Fekter, Felzmann, Franz, Freund, Frieser, Fuhrmann; Gahr, Glaser, Grander, Grillitsch, Großruck; Hakl, Haubner, Hofmann, Hellererer, Hornek, Huainigg, Hütl; Ikrath; Kainz, Kapeller, Keussnigg, Khol, Koßl, Kurzbauer; cross-country skiers, ledolter, lentic, light-egger, lopatka; Machne, Maier Ferdinand, Mainoni, Marek, Miedl, Mikesch, Missethon, Mitterlehner, Molterer, Murauer; Neudeck, Neugebauer; Pack, Partik-Pablé, Praßl, Preider, Prince, Princehorn; Rädler, Rasinger, Regler, Riener, Rosenkranz, Rossmann; Scheibner, Scheuch, Scheuermair, Schöls, Schultes, Schweisgut, Sieber, Sonnberger, Spindelegger, Stadler, Steibl, Steindl, Stummful; Tamandel, Tancsits, Drinkl, Turković-Wendl; Walch, Wattaul, Winkler, Wittauer, Wöinger, Wolfmayr, Zweytick. Short debate on the response to the question 1208/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e15376	We are now entering the brief debate on the question of the response of the Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry, the Environment and the Environment. Water management with the order number 1208/AB. [[Unrest in the hall.]] – I ask for a little more attention! The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that their reading by the author is not sufficient. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I am now looking for Mrs Mag. Weinzinger, with a speech time of 10 minutes to open the debate. – Mrs Colleague, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e15415	Mr President. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The literature provides us with the seamless transition from the last debate we had just had in the urgent, to the current question debate. George Orwell, Animal Farm: All animals are the same, only some are the same, it's called there. – This motto obviously also applies to the government regarding the Federal Animal Protection Act. This view can be seen by looking at the content. Before maybe: Considering this matter, it is obvious that a federal animal protection law is more complicated, more difficult and more complex than a tax reform, a pension reform or the creation of a biennial budget, when I look at how long it takes and into which mess the Federal Government has already manoeuvred. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A mess where the question is increasingly pressing: Is it really a mess – or is it a maneuver called “targeted failure” that the Federal Chancellor is doing here with the active help of his Minister of Agriculture? This Minister of Agriculture plays a crucial role when it comes to the de facto and the realite decision-making power to protect federal animals, even if he is not directly responsible for federal animal protection or should be under the new law. But the spirit in the government is becoming very clear in this question, because central areas and standards have been asked, and Mr Pröll has a clear answer to this question. Minister! One could answer questions such as “Will you comply with this or that standard? Will you forbid this animal torture practice?" and so on, that is, to sum up these about 10, 15 questions, actually with a single word: Njet! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This is essentially your answer to all central questions. Short translation: No, no, no, We can clearly read from what is being done here: It's a very intense agricultural lobby at work here. – By the way, I clearly distinguish between agro-lobby and the actual farmers or even organic farms. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: And operation inside!]] It will not be better, Mr Scheuch, if you do not make unqualified calls from your place. And after the President has not criticised it, I will allow myself this freedom. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Since we are already there, I also point to the considerable noise level in the hall. That's just for the protocol. [[Abg. Scheibner: Thank God only for the protocol! If you had told us, I'd have answered something!]] [[Further calls.]] The standards of this Act, which has now been placed in the Council of Ministers for the second time, or shortly before, because the coalition partners are not yet able to agree, clearly show the direction in which it is going. Under the heading ‘Bundestierschutz’, an animal protection law is hereby declared that economic effects are to be taken into account, in particular, for animal husbandry. That's really a novum! It has not yet been possible for the interests of protection to be diverted to the contrary and to return to economic interests as the main measure. What Minister Pröll supports or directs – it is far from me to judge that, but in his request it is at least obvious –: He uses the process of legislative discussion to elevate, undermine and levelle down existing levels of animal protection, and he is still quite open and clear about it. We already have clear bans in certain areas in Austria. The majority of the federal states forbid the cagekeeping of laying hens. There are numerous bans laid down in Article 15a agreements – for example, a full-division ban in several federal states – and so on. What does the Minister say on the question of how to ensure that the respective protection standards can at least be maintained or that the principle of "best of nine", that is, the best national regulations, can be incorporated into the Federal Animal Protection Act? I need to let you know this literally. The Minister said: “A continuation of country regulations cannot be the objective of a Federal Animal Protection Act. There are rules to be found that exclude a demigration of production in countries with lower standards of attitude. ... From this point of view, it is necessary to define what ‘best of nine’ means.’ Why don’t you just say stone and clear, “best of nine” is not in question, instead of trying to beat the ears with which this government obviously likes to work? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What does that mean? – That means quite specifically that you, Minister Pröll – but you are not the only one, we only have your answer here right now – just as government colleagues also want to have a legally sanctioned license to torture animals. I'm sorry, but That's exactly what you want. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] In general, we have listed part of this draft law, which is animal torture, which is prohibited throughout Austria. But because some animals are more equal than others, this does not apply to large areas of agriculture, for which exceptions are entered or for which the regulation, which is intended to regulate all of this, makes far-reaching exceptions. For example, it is generally prohibited to perform clearly animal torture – there are also the experts of an opinion – such as the coppering of beaks or tails, for example, in piglets, or interventions associated with significant pain, such as the castration of piglets without stunning. [[Abg. Großruck: A beak has never been coppered in a piggy!]] This is all animal torture and actually forbidden, but in the regulation which the Minister has written himself, and in part in the law written by the ministers of several employed resorts, it should then be allowed for agriculture. [[Unrest in the hall.]] What, I ask you, is that different from a legally sanctioned license for quealing? This is what you wanted under the title “Animal Protection”. That's the perverse! And there's the question for me: Faith You are all serious that you have such a...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e15524	Now the sound level is really too high! I would ask you to stop the conferences! President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e15542	Thank you very much. – What you are obviously doing here is a policy of prevention, because the ÖVP never wanted to have a federal animal welfare law from the beginning of the year. With what is available here, you will not be able to assume that you have only created a basis for discussion in Parliament for a two-thirds majority, let alone arrive in the population. We know that the population, to an extent of 80 to 90 per cent, agrees with the demands of animal welfare organisations and the desire for animal welfare. You will certainly hear more details about this in the next few days. In doing so, we do not even have this animal welfare popular desire in the demands. We have had key elements in the animal welfare demand, such as animal protection in the constitutional order. The ÖVP does not say that. An independent animal attorney's office doesn't even get into the bag. There were even resolutions in the Chambers of Agriculture that this should not come. [[Abg. Wittauer: There is a Ombudsman!]] The draft, which is now available, provides for a toothless animal protection council with a non-competent animal protection ombudsman. It's nice and nice, Mr Wittauer, that you've spent a word. If the Ombudsman still had powers such as a right of appeal or a party position in proceedings, one would like to discuss this, but a Ombudsman or an ombudsman who can't and cannot do anything is an alibi. And you should honestly admit that. Furthermore, the question of the financial promotion of animal welfare in the draft is almost blamble. Perhaps you can promote the changeover in the agricultural sector and scientific animal welfare research, but for active animal protection, that is, for those people who are mostly volunteering with a lot of time and commitment to animal welfare on the spot, you do not want to get out of a tired euro and not a cent. [[Abg. Hornek: Are those who light the stables?]] [[Call the Greens: Not just the ones!]] – That’s how your animal welfare policy looks! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I can therefore only ask the absent German chancellor, because I have no hope in the Minister of Agriculture for Agriculture for this blamable answer to the question. However, I would like to ask the ÖVP and, in particular, the Federal Chancellor, who has done a great job with his election promise: Does a modern federal animal protection law look like that in your eyes? [[Abg. Hornek: Yes!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! Federal Chancellor! Can you account for the fact that animal suffering in Austria will not only continue, but will increase because you want to regulate the standards by law? - That's what it looks like. [[Abg. Hornek: That is wrong!]] I am excited and appealing to the resistance of the FPÖ, which has tried several times to demonstrate it, and has never succeeded so far, but perhaps this time it will succeed. I'm afraid we'll have a maneuver again and now we'll get a little upset for the election fight. Then the law will be stopped and we will move everything. – Bet that it is not in the next Council of Ministers! Bet you haven't gotten through until then! [[Abg. Scheibner: next Council of Ministers? I don't bet with you because that's not in the next Council of Ministers!]] Let's move it up to the end of the 7th. March, that's very practical. Then there is an alibi regime, a motion for a resolution on animal welfare in the Convention, but the law will have little or nothing to do with it. If you vote or not, I'm curious about that! We won't be able to do it.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e15660	Mr Dipl.-Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e15678	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mrs Weinzinger, you are right in one matter: I am not responsible for the Federal Animal Protection Act. I want to do everything else in detail now. It is also necessary to see Genesis, the history of the Federal Animal Protection Act. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger:... Exodus!]] [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] We assume country laws based on a 15a agreement. There has been a development in this area in recent years – you have mentioned several bans – according to which, of course, a ban has been imposed on individual federal countries which were not familiar with farming in the agricultural sector in this genus. – So much for the development of country laws. [[Abg. May. Weinzinger: In Salzburg...!]] [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] We have done something very ambitious with the Federal Animal Protection Act, namely to discuss and present a modern, targeted Federal Animal Protection Act based on the laws of the countries and on the requirements of the European Union. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! They also know what the distribution of responsibilities is in this area. The Federal Chancellor will submit the Federal Animal Protection Act. Further responsibility lies in the Federal Ministry of Health and Women, because the Veterinary Authority is located there. I can still recall many discussions that argued that the Federal Animal Protection Act should not be the responsibility of the Minister of Agriculture. [[Abg. May. Weinzinger: The agreement!]] That is not the case either. It is a federal framework law and a regulatory authority for the Federal Minister for Health and Women, where agreement with the Minister for Agriculture must be reached accordingly. May I also tell you – you know the draft that is available – that we have discussed this draft not only at political level with the coalition partner, but also very intensively with three well-known experts: Dr. Troxler from the University of Veterinary Medicine, Dr. Pechlaner – I don't need to introduce him anymore – and Mag. Gsandtner from Vienna – also unwarranted in his attitude to animal welfare. [[Abg. May. Weinzinger: You know that their design was quite different!]] This design is also based on expert opinions, and expertise is involved. What are the cornerstones that are beyond dispute? – The cage stallion – you should have missed that – should be 31. ==References== This is also a call for early exit for many in the agricultural sector who hold hens in the cage, because the EU is not submitting it until 2012. We are more ambitious, but we also need to keep in mind – you forget the second side of the medal! – what we do to provide eggs from former cages. How do we replace the product? In this context, I call Switzerland again and again, because you also have to say that you have banned cage farming, can currently only produce 30 percent of the products from your own production and have to import the rest from abroad. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: This is a completely different agriculture!]] These are mainly eggs produced in the form of cages. I don't want to. That is why we will also try to provide financial support in the early conversion of cage farming to soil and alternative systems. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: In Carinthia we decided today!]] This is the right way: To establish exit scenarios and to provide support on the other hand, so that we can continue to produce the goods in Austria. A ban on fur farming is provided for. They have addressed the wise animal-ombudsman. In any case, another authority is not appropriate for animal welfare and animal welfare. In Austria, we have precisely arranged the administrative flow flows according to the question of federal and country level with the veterinary authorities. The animal ombudsman is to be an important point of contact in order to be able to show misunderstandings in the field of animal welfare in the future. Strict stockpiles of animals, the prohibition of qualifications and the prohibition of stalk collars shall be taken into account accordingly. A labelling system for animal-friendly stables is being introduced. This is also important for the farmers in Austria because they thus have investment security. If they purchase a product – e.g. installation facilities – they can assume with this marking system that they will at least comply with the law in all details. I could read a lot more here. You know the framework law. It is qualitatively a clear improvement compared to the starting point of our discussions, a smart, modern framework law for a federal uniform animal protection. I would like to make a point because the farmers here have been put in a bad light. You have said that the intention is to grant the licence for animal torture. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: She said the agricultural policy, not the farmers!]] This is a heavy accusation that I can't let anyone sit on because no one in the agricultural area – and you can believe this – is thinking only in the approach of tormenting animals. Animals are an essential income base for the Austrian farmers, especially in the lessfavoured regions of the Alps. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] No one is interested, has been interested and will be interested in tormenting animals.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e15825	The next speaker is Mr Auer. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e15843	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I'm used to being a politician sometimes. I may also have made my contribution to the opposition parties myself. However, I would like to point out that, as Mrs Weinzinger said today in your press release, a whole profession is generally denied, by writing that “the animal torture practices in agriculture are still permitted” and “the ÖVP with teeth and claws defends the right to animal torture”. – I firmly reject this general evasion of the farmers! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Cattlekeeping is animal torture!]] Take note of this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] That's not it! Everyone is called on to take animal welfare seriously, but in all areas, not only in the field of agriculture, so that we can understand each other clearly! Of course there are measures to be taken here. You should also know that animal protection is a sensitive and important issue. It must apply – as I said – to all. It is interesting that today we have this debate on the response of the third party to the question. December of last year. At a time when there was no law, you already wanted to know what is to be said in the future regulations! Ladies and gentlemen! As young Members, you too should know how parliamentary processes are going! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. May. Weinzinger: You should have a long-term memory!]] [[Further call to the Greens.]] But obviously it's not about you at all. Obviously, animal protection is intended to support further populism. [[Abg. Ollinger: Here you go, colleague Auer!]] We face this with a comprehensive work with truly profound experts, and the names Troxler, Pechlaner and Gsandtner guarantee this – so that it is clear! I would also like to say quite openly to you: I would like to invite you to visit farmers – you can choose them yourself – and to work for a period of 14 days in the stable so that you can know what you are talking about and what you are demanding, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Großruck: Then she would look like a piggy!]] It is very often heard that there would be mass production in Austria and that the animal husbandly mass farms in the agricultural sector would have to end. – I have had the animal stock limits and the animal stock on average removed from the comparison. Only three facts: Cattle farming in Austria: 20,5 pieces, five times in Luxembourg: 105 pieces on average. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Averages, colleague Auer!]] Milk cows: in Austria: 8,4, in Great Britain the eightfold: 68,2 pieces. Pig farming: in Austria on average 38 pieces per holding, in the Netherlands the 19-fold, namely well over 700 pieces per holding. I give you the right that some sort of thing should be done in the area of laying hens in particular – no question at all. But it is of course interesting if certain states in which a particular production does not matter at all are very brave. This seems to me as if one wanted to abolish the alpine economy in Burgenland. Ladies and gentlemen! That's not a reference either. [[Abg. May. Weinzinger: Salzburg!]] They talked about egg production. The Federal Minister rightly pointed out the example of Switzerland. You should have – and this is possible – the television broadcast, which took place on 25 May. ==References====External links== The Federal Republic of Germany imports 3 billion eggs. In this television documentation, it was once understood and filmed where these eggs come from, under what cruel standards such egg production happens, so that some animal protectors can calm their consciences so to speak. You should watch this movie! The following were particularly interesting: Last Saturday this color photograph was in the “Kronen Zeitung”: a burning chicken. [[The speaker keeps the corresponding page of the “Kronen Zeitung” up to date.]] This picture is surtitled as a “pangsome spectacle. ” I wonder very slowly: Where is the cry on these practices? Where did he stay? I hear nothing from you, ladies and gentlemen! Where are the newsletters, where are there actions, where is there a cry on your part? - Nothing! From the countries where this happens, we then import the eggs and egg additives we need so that we can say in Austria that our conscience is pure, we have exported production. Ladies and gentlemen! Reasonable animal protection is urgently needed. On the basis of this careful legislation, which is in progress and whose product will certainly be placed on the table shortly, in the mutual agreement of the government parties will be supported by the experts in a forward-looking law.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e15982	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Sima. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e16000	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Auer, just one sentence on eggs and laying hens: You know very well that, with certain transitional periods, it is also possible to give up legged batteries and still produce the eggs in Austria, which is to be quite acceptable animal protection standards. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Switzerland! Germany!]] You just have to make the right way to do that. No one wants us to lock today's leg batteries to tomorrow. We are all ready to accept certain transitional periods, but that should at least be our objective. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: That is done too!]] You don't even want to make that your goal again. They say they either import leghold batteries or from abroad, and no alternatives, and we are not willing to accept that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Grandruck: That's wrong!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! What you have presented to us in recent months in terms of animal welfare is unfortunately a game of mourning. Otherwise, I can't formulate it anymore. [[Abg. Scheibner: What are you looking at us?]] – I think you belong to the government, as far as I can remember. I would like to stress: still. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But we haven't presented anything!]] I am not talking about the many years before the ÖVP in the government blocked the condition of a animal welfare law, but I am really talking about the last year and the last months. It began with a full-bodied promise by the Federal Chancellor shortly before the election, which said that there would be a strict animal welfare law. We have so far been presented with so-called reforms, not least the pension reduction reform. You've all decided at a monkey-like pace. In animal welfare, however, we are obviously in an endless waiting loop. There are pre-designs and pre-designs, and even when the preliminary draft is submitted, we are told that we are giving it to you now, but in fact it is no longer up-to-date, because something will be changed immediately. In addition, the law contains so many regulatory powers that one cannot even call it a framework law, because it is too thin for it itself. If we are then asked and presented by you – and I would like to stress that this is, of course, only a pre-version of the pre-version and indeed not a final version – and then look at the content of it, then one really comes up with a little bit of greying in some things. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Not from me!]] In the field of farm animals, which is one of the critical areas, as we have already seen from Mr Auer's speech, there is serious deterioration in your draft regulations. On the contrary, the level of equality of level cannot at all be spoken of, on the contrary, the level is partially reduced to EU standards, partly even among them. I would now like to give a few examples: With regard to the previously quoted leghold batteries, at least one ban is envisaged in five of the nine federal states and also fixed with certain transitional periods. – This should be allowed again. The whole flooring – Mr Weinzinger has already mentioned it – is forbidden in three federal states and should then be allowed again. The constant bonding of dairy cows should also be very easily possible. I have here an article from the “Farm Newspaper ” of 22. The Member States in which it is found that there is no room for exit on the holding or the complaints of neighbours are likely to occur, shall be allowed to bind the animals without interruption. – So they are pleased about what you plan in the so-called Animal Protection Act. We simply cannot agree with that. What I find interesting: You are well-known and, I believe, aware that this law is a two-thirds matter. You need a constitutional change, that is, you also need the SPÖ to do so. – To this day, no one has approached me or us with any efforts to negotiate with us. Yeah, there's been preliminary discussions. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Intensive!]] - I agree. But that someone would have come to me and said he wanted to negotiate about this or that now, I can't remember that. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Mrs. Baumgartner-Gabitzer!]] – Mrs. Baumgartner-Gabitzer and I talked to each other, but we did not negotiate. That is, I think, a Quintessence, if you hope for a two-thirds majority in Parliament for anything. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Is there already a government template on which we can negotiate?]] – There is no government template. That's right. If you'd been listening to me, That's what I would easily have criticized at the beginning. [[Abg. May. Molterer: What do you want to negotiate?]] Perhaps it would be wise to involve us before there is a fixed and finished template, because of course it is much more difficult to put on again. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Ah! Soft now...!]] – What does soft mean? Excuse me, I'm very open and honest here, because my goal is really to get an animal welfare law. I doubt the seriousness behind your intentions, because the procedure is so strange. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We wanted to have “best of nine” under the Animal Protection Act – the best of nine national animal welfare legislation. What you have served us here is “worst of nine”!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e16208	The next speaker is Mr Wittauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e16226	Minister! Mr President. High house! Mrs Weinzinger, it is already a bit frozen if you say it is a mess in this government. I can tell you: That is why it takes so long because we take this matter very important and because we really go through every point. We have been negotiating with the experts for hours and days to get a good result. Even if you accuse the farmers' association or the ÖVP of running agricultural lobbying, I can tell you that we have negotiated very constructively and that the so-called agricultural lobby has also given up in many areas. We can be truly satisfied with the preliminary result. One thing I miss, of course. You seem to have not read the last draft yet. There has already changed a lot! They claim here that animal torture is determined. Of course it's like this: Transitional provisions – including the 15a agreements that existed before – have actually been adopted. For example, when you look at the question of cage farming: We agreed that a transitional arrangement will only apply until 2008 and not until 2012. We agreed that the design of experts would be to be defined and that we would then clarify this by the way of the regulation. That is, there are many areas that have changed to the positive. But one thing I miss very well: I haven't heard a word about you as a treasurer. This is strangely a subject that you do not dare to touch. That is, where animal torture is recorded, so animals are cut through the goggles without stunning, there is no subject for you. You get rid of it, you leave it to the liberal. However, in this regard it is really true that animal torture is laid down in the Animal Protection Act. And against that we are! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Of course it is true that I am calling on you, Mr Pröll, to support us. I know that it is not a matter of heart to him to help us bring in this provision, too, but it cannot be that animal torture is set in the Animal Protection Act. On the other hand, we are liberals, and we will fight for them too! [[Abg. May. Weinzinger: Why do you do it then?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: We don't do it!]] I need to tell you something: Our Carinthian friends today or yesterday in the state government decided to support the exit from battery farming with 50 percent animal investment promotion. And we must also be grateful for the fact that the countries where a liberal manuscript is recognizable also respond and support it. We will certainly not be able to agree to an animal welfare law where that does not happen. I am happy, and I know that the signals are really there for animal welfare to be established in such a way that people understand it as animal welfare. It also gives you credibility. I'm fighting for many areas in this animal welfare law, and I think I can claim credibility. On the other hand, I have the impression among some of you that you do not even have a canary bird and probably do not know how an animal looks exactly, otherwise Mrs Weinzinger would not have cut off a pig. - That's what you called it. – Reverse: The cooping happens at the hen and not at the pig, so that's what you've twisted now. Mrs Sima! Where is Mrs Sima? She's not here anymore. It seems that animal welfare does not necessarily have this meaning for the Social Democrats. – Mrs Sima claimed that she had no negotiating counterpart. That's not true. I sent our position paper to the Greens, directly before that, a month and a half ago, and also to the Social Democrats. I never got an answer to that. That means there was no willingness at all to talk to me or with us liberals about it. Now the economic impact. If you'd been looking at it, you'd have seen it, that's exactly what it's like: The Federal Ministry must take account of the law and also take into account economic effects, and consideration means a reclassification in the text. It is already a difference whether I write this evenly or whether I come across some farmers in the transitional regulations and transitional provisions, so that they are not rationalized. We don't want that, and neither do we. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We have also reached agreement with Troxler, Gsandtner and Pechlaner in a 10-hour round of negotiations. It was also very critical there, and we did it! There are four points that are still open from our point of view, and we will continue to fight for them. I hope, Mrs Weinzinger, to get your support on the issue of intoxicated slaughter. You may also be speaking on this. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] For us, the state objective is an important point for us that the co-created animal comes into the constitution. Even there we hope for support, but I mean, I've already heard that before. Then we will have a good animal welfare law at the end of the day. We liberals will fight for it, and the people outside...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e16299	Please note the speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e16314	... we will also welcome the fact that we will lead this fight and continue to lead it.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e16341	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber. Same time of speech: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e16360	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me take a brief look at the comments made by colleagues. It really surprises me that the President of the Austrian Farmers' Federation, Mr Grillitsch, is silently sitting here and does not find a word of speech worth speaking here in the view of the peasantry as an official representative of the Farmers' Federation at least his opinion. I appreciate this in a certain way, but you can also make your own rhyme on it. [[Abg. Oils: He is silent and enjoying!]] Mr Auer! We are very much ready for discussion, and Mr Weinzinger has tried to make contributions in the form of many good, concrete proposals within the subcommittee. [[Abg. Scheibner: She told you that?]] On this occasion I would like to return to the survey on the animal welfare law, i.e. on how the discussion started here in the house. I recall the statements by Professor Haiger, an internationally recognized agricultural representative, professor of animal farming, who worked for many years at the University of Soil Culture. [[Abg. May. Molterer: This is a representative of science and not agriculture!]] He said quite clearly in this house: Cattle farming is animal torture, continuous full-column soils are animal torture and a permanent bonding is animal torture. If a representative of a professional discipline, who also has practical experience, has carried out research projects that have advised farmers, has supported many producer communities, that is, we must take these facts seriously, ladies and gentlemen. We cannot simply pass these facts, nor should we be able to do so whether this is always the case with farmers outside or not. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I think it would be your responsibility, Mr Grillitsch, to take this forward for a future-looking animal welfare law, which, above all, ensures that the co-creativeness of the animals is raised in the constitutional order. Ladies and gentlemen! We live in the 21st century. Century and we must realize that with our animals we have “an economic and ecological symbiosis” – under quotation marks – and we must take this responsibility seriously. And this is what we call for by Greens in a serious, concrete and truly comprehensible dialogue, which also leads to results that give something, Mr Minister, for example binding deadlines for the conversion, Mr Grillitsch. With defined transitional provisions, no question! But in the current wording in the current draft, these deadlines are not foreseen, so there is a distortion of competition in the future, and we do not want them either. We want a high standard of animal welfare at all levels. I would also like to take up another point which, from our point of view, would be a goal and a great relief for farmers, namely the pre-certification and testing of the stables. So not just some pickerl, but really a serious, professional review of the installation systems. Ladies and gentlemen! That would be a good solution, which could also be seen internationally. I remind you: Sweden has a similar model, it is also an EU member country and there is no distortion of competition at all. But now to your answer, Federal Minister. Their wording that the economic competition decides what the best solutions of the federal states are at the level of animal welfare, can not be, because one must be clear and clear: It is not the animal welfare that has caused more and more farmers to leave production in recent years. It is a missing agricultural policy, which no longer allows farmers to obtain cost-effective prices for their products because of the dumping of food. That is exactly what I would expect your vote as a farmer's representative here, that you will finally be able to address and agree to this food dumping – and you are organised at European level – and also to develop solutions to how this can be communicated to consumers in a timely manner. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr. Federal Minister, your opinion is also embarrassing, because you are seriously claiming that funding, namely investment promotions and additional support for species-friendly animal husbandry, would not be possible, we could not introduce them if we were to enforce a “severe” – under quotations – animal welfare law with higher standards in Austria. In this context, I would like to remind you of the relevant EU regulation. There it is explicitly stated: The aid will also be granted - for a moment to quote it correctly - in Article 51 of the paragraph that farmers will be able to receive support even if...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e16429	Please note the speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e16444	... national rules are laid down in accordance with the Community standard. - So far.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e16482	There are no more words available here. The debate is closed. No application was made. That is why we are returning to the agenda. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e16503	Mr Dr. Stummvoll. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e16522	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Now, after the afternoon debate, which was a bit of a day hack, we return to politics as a future design. And I am really pleased today that we, all four parties together, are creating a new legal basis for the Danube Union in Krems. Because, my Ladies and gentlemen, as the representative of this region, I can still remember what sounding laughter the former head of state Ludwig caused many years ago when he meant: Lower Austria needs a university. Ladies and gentlemen! You can see this example: Nothing is as successful as success. Today, all four political groups are committed to this new legal basis and also to the 15a agreement between the Federal Government and the State of Lower Austria. I am pleased to be one who has thought this idea right from the start. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, the last ten years – and it has been ten years since the agreement of principle between the Federal Government and Lower Austria – have actually been a short period of time, an incredible success story. The fact alone: in the first year 100 listeners, now almost 3,000 are already a signal of how this university was adopted new styles, new types. Ladies and gentlemen! I say again and again – and this also applies here to the Danube Union, in the future it is called the University of Education: Success is never a coincidence. I believe that the success that we can celebrate today in this decision-making process is made up of a number of elements. I call first of all that we have recognised early on that lifelong learning is the major challenge in the education sector. This has long since not been a keyword, but is in part daily experienced reality. Ladies and gentlemen! The university in Krems is, in my knowledge of Europe, the only state university dedicated to 100 percent of further education. This is the great challenge we face today. Without further training, without lifelong learning, there will be neither jobs nor income opportunities nor social security. This is the economic aspect of this Danube Union. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And it is no coincidence that a large international group, Baxter, in its philosophy of settlement – we are going to Krems – meant that Krems was a major argument for Krems that Krems was an educational location in that country. Ladies and gentlemen! This shows the economic dimension of this decision. I am also pleased with a second element of success: This university had to prove itself on the market from the beginning, on the education market and on the market of the economy. And she's proved herself. And I am still pleased that this evidence on the market has led the Danube Union to generate almost 80 percent of its revenue itself in Krems, ladies and gentlemen, with students from almost 40 countries around the world. Third criterion of success is the incredibly strong practice orientation. From the beginning there was a very close cooperation between science and the economy. I dare to say: In no other university area does this work together, this permeability between science and the economy as well as at the Danube University in Krems. Only the fact that some 1,000 external speakers have been teaching at the Danube Union last year shows how much the economy, the practitioners are willing to participate in this Danube Union, so that this lifelong learning is actually fulfilled with concrete life. Ladies and gentlemen, let me say the following: The current President, President Fröhlich, with his excellent team of employees, has not always created friends, I know. There are also critics. But one thing I have to say: Without President Fröhlich and his excellent team, with its consistent, offensive, innovative forward strategy, Krems would not be the success story it has become in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen from Krems! I thank you very much for this initiative. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to say: With this Danube Union, a vision has become reality. It has been proved that the former saying of a former Federal Chancellor: If you have a vision, you need a doctor! But you need political enforceability to make a vision become reality. And I hope today that Mrs Gehrer's vision, which she said before the end of the meeting, will become a centre of further training in a new Europe after enlargement by 1. May – I dare the prediction, with all due caution in the case of forecasts – will become a reality in the coming years. We are pleased – and I see how my colleague Anni Höllerer from Krems is delighted – that we can adopt this law today.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e16598	Mrs Kuntzl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Speech time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e16618	Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the new legal basis for the Danube University in Krems, which we are discussing and deciding here today, I can also very well agree with the remarks made by my colleague, Mr Stummvoll. As you say, you have described learning for life as the great challenge. I would rather talk about life-long learning, because it might sound a little more motivating than lifelong learning. But that's just a question of conceptuality, in the substance we certainly agree. What I wanted to point out is that, on the one hand, it is important to create the institutions to improve, to put them on the appropriate basis – we do so today, and that is also good - although I would like to add that you hear about the Danube University Krems over and over again that you can think about the quality of the offer. This is certainly a step you have to take. One is the institutions, which is important, right and good, but there can be more. The other thing is that one also wants to set the framework conditions for those who go through the training courses, want to do that – that is a lot of work, costs a lot of energy – improves that one also supports the people accordingly. And for a long time there have been ideas that we have presented. One is that people who are not always cheap should also be financially supported by the state. We have developed the model of the educational premium, where there is a personal contribution and, depending on income, support for it. Perhaps we should discuss that accordingly. Perhaps we can reach agreement and get on with it. The second part would be to create time-consuming spaces, because, of course, they are mostly people who, in addition to working for a job, are also working for further training. You could do a lot of things to make life much easier for these people, but you wouldn't cost us anything. I'm thinking about education here. There is also a concept that we have developed and presented for a long time. The educational career, as it is now available, is important, but I think you can improve it, insofar as it is now a rigid block, for which you have to get out of the profession completely. I think it would be useful for the individual employee, the individual employee and the employer to allow more flexible models. There is, for example, the possibility to consume the same total time in smaller units, up to a daily reduction in working time over a certain period of time, so that one can meet, for example, the many people who accept evening offers in addition to the profession – which I think is particularly admirable, because I think it is very stressful – and the employer can also do this more easily than if someone leaves the profession for half a year. I think that we could continue to consider this, discuss it further, and perhaps find solutions for those concerned. The second point: Mr. Brinek! You have interpreted our consent to the submission as proof that we indirectly agree to the adaptation of the 2002 UG. Of course, I have to delineate myself from this interpretation and point out that we still have many good reasons – bad reasons in reality – to criticize the UG. On the one hand, there is the financial situation in which universities have come – Mr Broukal has already done this very impressively today – and on the other hand, we are dealing with the structural confusion, the ==References====External links== De-democracy is certainly also a wonderful point on the proposal we are considering today. Apart from that – this has nothing to do with the UG now, but with the situation of the universities – one has to question how the tuition fees have affected. So I think the world hasn't gotten rusty. I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] You know, the current situation is characterized by totally overcrowded hearing rooms, nightly placement of students for seminar and laboratory sites, electricity bills cannot be paid, modern equipment cannot be used because repair is too expensive, new laboratory facilities cannot be purchased, and courses need to be partially discontinued. So this is a situation at the universities that is not desirable and that you can and should repair.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e16692	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, distributed and negotiated. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e17212	Mr Brader. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e17232	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! If we decide today on this federal law on the University of Training Krems and the corresponding agreement with the State of Lower Austria, I can say that as a Lower Austrian – even if I am St. Pöltner – I am very pleased with this decision and that the other federal states will also understand when we are proud of it. At this point, I would like to thank the Lower Austrian Education Society, the Minister of Education and our country government, first and foremost Pröll, for this courageous step. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It can only be a real step if a former tobacco factory becomes one of the most modern educational centres in the world – I think you can say that. If one has heard, as my previous speaker explained, that the self-financing rate is 74 percent, then I must say, this is another reason to be proud. If at present five departments of this Danube University offer lectures in economic and management sciences, telecommunications, information, cultural sciences, environmental and medical sciences and European integration, then it is also clear where the heart of this House lies. I am convinced that this university will become a centre of competence for the whole of Central Europe, in which international understanding is also strongly supported. If I look at the extension of the service offer, I have to say, it is clear that the creation of new forms of financing of the federal and the country was also needed. I would like to take a brief look at what these financial agreements look like. There are 270 000 € implementing costs, and the country of Lower Austria has so far provided €9.6 million for the renovation of the building stock, which was completed in mid-2003. The total investments of the state of Lower Austria for the new building are estimated at € 47.3 million and include Audimax, Mensa, library as well as modern research and laboratory possibilities. The entire complex will be completed in 2005. Ladies and gentlemen! Free to Karl Farkas: Look at this!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e17279	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e17297	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr President. It is fixed that the innovation potential of a society and a country is an essential location factor, both in terms of value building and thus of better quality of life and in terms of improving international competitiveness, as well as in terms of increasing personal and social self-security. Countries – and this has turned out – and societies such as the Scandinavian countries show that well-trained people with lifelong training and training measures can face new challenges in economic, social, light, fear-free, and substantially more offensive and respond to system changes – an objective that is a special concern for us social democrats. Ladies and gentlemen! This law on Danube University is therefore a correct step in the right direction, and we will therefore give our consent. But, of course, this law can only be a partial step. A further step for the region, as Mr Stumpfully said, is, of course, necessary. Krems as a location is just as important as the expansion or integration of this university – which has already been called for several times today – into a general political university concept. One needs a special unique feature for this university – and that, I believe, is not yet sufficiently available – and one still has to work on it, even if this Central European competence center idea is important. Why do I say that? – Accompanying further education is essential, but technical training is just as important. At this location there are very good biotechnology and economics, and if you combine this with the methods of further training, I have to say that I consider this important for the international breakthrough of this site and then I also give you the right that perhaps Baxter was the cause. It was not a question of having further education as a scientific branch there, but it was also a question of having specialized training in biotechnology. And together is the real success factor. What is still particularly important there – and this applies to other locations in Austria too – is the creation of blue ribbon panels. Politicians, scientists and economists are developing this vision together for a region and are actually seeing this university as the point of crystallization of regional development projects. I think this is very important, because it has been seen to create jobs not only in the university area. There are gameover economic foundations, there are knowledge transfer over the respective heads and also through technology centres. But the provision of risk capital and also the management ultimately lead to breakthrough. I am therefore saying this because there is a very well-known example in this context: Cambridge: In Cambridge, precisely these factors have worked together so that there have been over 35 000 high-quality scientific jobs, which is an important point. But, of course, there is also a need for basic financial resources. I picked this out: It must not lead to the hunger of the universities. If you count the budgets of Cambridge and Oxford together, the two have the two and a half budget of the Austrian universities as a whole. These two universities alone have two and a half times the total of our universities! – You can read this in the last edition of the “Economist”. [[Abg. Großruck: What does a study cost?]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Is that from the state?]] Nevertheless! These are investment expenditure in this area. [[Abg. Big truck: 60,000 s a year!]] Ladies and gentlemen! These universities, of course, need to be supplemented by non-university research institutions and industrial research. This is the real point in Austria. In Austria we lack high-quality jobs for trained scientists, researchers and developers. This is an important point to solve. Unfortunately, it is also necessary to say that there is no overall concept, and Austria still has a massive part to contribute. Ladies and gentlemen! As a last comment, I would like to stress the following for those who know the location: It is really very nice to formulate a social democratic maxim: We are in favour of building universities instead of prisons. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e17375	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Donnerbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e17394	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, as a Lower Austrian, I am delighted about this recognition that we are expressing today at the Danube University by comparing it with the other universities in Lower Austria. Of course, I can confirm what my previous speakers have already emphasized that this is a story of success that ultimately, I believe, has several roots. One thing has already been done by my colleague, Mr Stummvoll, namely that in Lower Austria it has already been believed in this institution very early – especially on the part of the heads of state Sigi Ludwig and Erwin Pröll – and has also provided it with appropriate financial support and support. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As I believe, the Danube University or the University of Education, as it will be called in the future, has also succeeded in taking on an important role in a very important area, particularly in the current situation in which we are located, namely in the transition from the information society to the knowledge society. And this shows the upward development that Danube University has taken in the last ten years. The increase in the number of listeners from 100 to almost 3,000 shows that it is active in a very important area, which will be even more important in the future, that it has worked and edited very forward-looking areas, whether in terms of construction and environment, biomedical technology or also in terms of telematics and European integration, to name just a few examples. Another very important point for Austria is the study center for the film. These were just a few examples that document how forward-looking and forward-looking the offer was designed. That, I believe, is also one of the most important reasons for this success over the last ten years and also the justification for this equality. However, allow me to address the motion for a resolution that has been tabled very briefly, because I believe that it is going in the wrong direction. More money is generally required for universities, and the distribution of this money is expected to take place, as it were, in accordance with the principle of casting cans to all universities. Neither the number of listeners nor various other criteria are taken into account. But I would also like to clear up the claim that there is no more money for the universities. There's probably more money. If we draw a comparison of the years 2003 and 2004, I have to say that there is even a lot more money: 6 per cent from the regular budget, 18 million additional funds for the university research infrastructure, almost 11 million for preferential professorships and a total of € 600 000, as you have correctly reflected in your resolution, for special teaching courses and research scholarships. I believe that these additional funds should also arrive where they are needed. These are to be made available to universities which also perform appropriate services in these areas, and not to be distributed in the same way over all the casting cans. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the end, however, allow me to address what Mr Broukal said. He has actually provoked this by predicting what he and the SPÖ intend to do in the next election campaign as a motto and how they want to do this campaign. I remember the last election, Mr Broukal! [[Abg. Broukal: Not again!]] We have had this before, and you are one who always calls for honesty, honesty, material debate. [[Abg. Broukal: Reality, not honesty!]] Mr. Broukal! In the sense of this matter, I ask myself again: You told us in 2002: There should also be no additional money for the universities under Minister Broukal. Saving and repainting are its recipes. [[Abg. Broukal: That's quite easy, I didn't know how much money you've taken away from universities! 15 million in five years!]] You have moved away very quickly from this concept, and I can also tell you why, Mr Broukal, you have gone so quickly – and this is not at all the case in your motion for a resolution – because at the moment you simply do not have to worry about financing, because it is easy to say, as an opposition: More money for this area, more money for this area and more money for that area, without saying where this money comes from. [[Abg. Broukal: Don't tell me! Tell the students who need to work around a laboratory site for nights! Tell the professors, tell the universities! I didn't think it was possible!]] We stand for performance-oriented universities and ensure that these services are also credited accordingly and provided with appropriate financial incentives. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This is our concept, and we will continue to pursue it. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e17488	It is not Mr Broukal who is speaking, but Mrs Walther. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Not Mr. Broukal!]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e17517	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen on the ranks, perhaps some students are among them too! The S & D Group will also be working today for this new law, for a new study law for the Danube University in Krems. This is a necessary and reasonable step. Mrs Kuntzl has already done the right thing, accompanying learning would really be an approach that would have to be promoted everywhere. If you have the opportunity as an adult to do a re-training, then that is definitely to be welcomed. To that end, I am just as happy as some speakers from other political groups are with regard to the decision-making of this law. But I'd like to tell you something else now. The exchange of beats, which has just taken place in advance, has paves the way for me to do so. I'd like to give you three, just before Christmas, on 19. On 1 December 2003, he was appointed to the University of Graz, where he held his doctorates at the University of Graz. There, the dean of the Faculty of Humanities – the Faculty of Humanities has carried out doctorates and sponsors – before about 2,000 to 2,500 people – so many members were present at these sponsoring and doctoral celebrations, desperately resorted to a special means, and he has described the situation of his faculty very plastically. He took 25 minutes for this – at a celebration that takes about one hour, it is very long – and has pointed out the equipment of his faculty. For example, he said that in his care and despair he went so far, even to distribute leaflets with his speech to the guests and graduates. You can well imagine in what desperate situation a Honourable Professor must be in if he takes such a measure. He also apologised in his preface for a little lessening the solemn framework of such an event, but he had to do so. I would now like to focus on what we have found there. First point: At the Karl-Franzens-Universität Graz and thus also at the Faculty of Humanities there has been an investment and recruitment stop since June 2003, and it will probably remain even longer. The faculty has occupied only 73 percent of its professorships, and it is not to be noticed when the minimum desired capacity of at least 85 percent can be achieved. Although not only professors teach and research, this is a very striking indication of the situation. I would like to point out that at the Faculty of Humanities of the Karl-Franzens University, all teachers of the higher schools are trained for the Styria and for the South of Burgenland – at least for the South of Burgenland. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: This is actually a bit of an abuse of a celebration!]] It's not an abuse of a celebration! I pointed out that he felt compelled to point out that. [[New call of the abg. Dr. Brinek.]] The second point: The Faculty of Humanities has to the 320 staff and to the 300 external teachers. For these 620 people, 563 computers, built years from 1997, are available. In order to meet the requirements, about 90 PCs need to be purchased per year. In the calendar year 2003, however, only 32 PCs could be taken care of, and so on, and so on. I believe that these are financial gaps that cannot be overcome by a hardness fund and for which the €600 000 that are now being distributed as an emergency aid will not be enough. They are also dedicated to: € 527 000 for research scholarships and € 73 000 for special courses. Finally, I would like to stress – and this applies to all scientists and economic researchers – that investment in research and education is also an important factor for economic growth. If we want to achieve the world-class claim, which is constantly being conjured, then these funds are in no way sufficient. Finally, I would like to quote the Rector of the WU Vienna, Christoph Badelt, who said in a “standard” interview: “We have now created the organizational conditions that make the universities better. However, we need a positive commitment to the universities through appropriate resource allocation. Through an organization reform alone, no one becomes world class.” – Quote. The motion for a resolution on €100 million of emergency aid must be supported in view of this scenario. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e17562	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hütl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e17581	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The new law has already been reported in great detail, and I am of course pleased about it as a Lower Austrian. However, I would like to deal with a particularly interesting aspect, namely continuing training research. This university has set itself the task of making academic further education itself the subject of its research. Further training research is still a very young segment. The interdisciplinary platform for this was founded at the Danube University only in 2002 in order to promote the systematic, structured and multidisciplinary research on scientific further education. An urgent task falls within the field of participant research. This is about learning more about the new type of continuing education student, the so-called “non-traditional students”. What type are these “non-traditional students” who study at Krems University? And: What makes them different from traditional students? You will visit these courses of study in the form of part-time work. They have a longer professional experience. They have a great heterogeneity with regard to previous studies, and the path to the university is less linear than with normal students. Life biography looks different. In one word: The students there have a high level of continuing training activity, have a special life situation, and are exemplary in embodying the concept of lifelong learning. And, as my colleague stupidly said, The figures speak for themselves. In the winter semester there were 2,800 students from 40 countries, and 4,000 graduates have already completed. One of the most urgent research programmes in this research platform is therefore participant research. Some other important projects are also lifelong learning, quality, cooperation and networking. In the field of further education, particular attention is paid to empirical research of viewpoints and the conception of education of students. It is about motives, professional experiences, training orientations, barriers, work and life situations, further training, double burden by work and family, professional experience. Of course, the motivations to study at the Danube University are also of great interest. There is also a study on this, and I would now like to mention the main reasons. The focus is on specialist knowledge, interest in the subject area, and then on personal further training, followed by the experience of new and career opportunities. Hardly influence the motivations have the fear of job loss or unemployment. Quality is also part of further training research, as well as lifelong learning, cooperation and networking. I would also like to thank Dr. Wolfgang Jütte of further training research for the many information. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the promotion of further education. Scientific training continues to grow in importance. This also means the constant empirical discussion with it. We have numerous but island-like research skills. In other words, we need to pool resources to develop research strategies from them. In spite of different research approaches, priority should be given to priority research issues. The networking of singular research projects into complex allies is also important in order to use synergies. For the establishment of scientific further education as a research field, the formation of professional communities is becoming increasingly important where university and continuing education professionals can understand their practices and findings. At least I congratulate the Danube Union on this interdisciplinary platform for further education. I am convinced that the discussion with our own continuing training processes will contribute to ensuring the quality of their educational work and thus to the quality of the Danube University. And free to Brader, I'd like to say, “Look at this!” You will also have the opportunity to visit the fair “Best” next week: Profession, studies and further training. This fair takes place from Thursday to Sunday in the city hall in Vienna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e17658	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rada. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e17676	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Today, we are discussing the Danube University for a fee. The discussion was interrupted in the middle of the day, but I remember what all the discussions had been taking place since the early afternoon. There is therefore a fundamental support for this institution. I can remember exactly how difficult the hour of birth was, how difficult it was to create such a university institution in Lower Austria, and I also complain as a representative of Lower Austria that the Danube University, even though it is still so highly praised, is not a full university. There are still very, very many steps to be taken in this area, even if there has been some progress in this area. I am already wondering about the statements made by Mr Bleckmann, who has spoken, that can't be an eductive point in making money for educational institutions. I wonder, Who else should finance education? Education is the task of the state, education is the task for all of us, and it cannot be that one says: Whoever can afford to go there. It can't really be! If the Federal State of Lower Austria – and it has already been said today that the Danube University will eventually be called “Ludwigs-Universität” perhaps also called “Erwins-Universität” – invest a lot of money, then I welcome it. At the same time, the federal government has taken back investment, and it cannot really be that the federal states have to finance everything in the education sector. However, Lower Austria may be able to afford it. Despite all this, this university is still not a full university. And with all the praises we have heard today from our Lower Austrian Members, one must also be said: The aim must be not to have Krems as a training institution, but to have more. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: No, that's not so safe!]] I am very much with Mr Kuntzl, who today stated that we need to make greater use of such offers for working people who want to make use of them in their spare time in the evening. [[New call of the abg. Dr. Brinek.]] Mrs Brinek, I have listened very closely to you today. You are certainly more interested in you and you than in the Danube University in Krems with the University of Vienna. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: I know myself well from there!]] That is why I do not really believe everything you have said on this issue. But: The research centre is still positive, even if this research centre is not yet the same as we would have liked. But this is not really interesting for all regions of our federal state. If you invite certain groups of companies to research there, nothing happens – with this I mean the company Baxter – while in other areas – and here I mean the district of Gänserndorf – over 100 jobs through this In the field of research, there is no real danger of overscheduling. Despite all this, I see these efforts and these developments as a positive step. However, we would need a full university during the present period, given the enlargement of the European Union in Krems. That would be a really important step.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e17746	Mr Schöls is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e17764	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! A long journey begins with the first step. This is proof that all the political groups today are in agreement worthy of the positive development of the DUK, sometimes saying – and this has been demonstrated by Mr Moser's speech and much more clearly by Mr Rada's country school inspector – that it seems that the opposition role does not show that good work is being done here. I would like to thank, at the beginning of my remarks, many of those who have worked for the DUK, especially all the staff during the ten years of the existence of the Danube University, for having shown so much patience and so much commitment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I recall the many hours we have been negotiating as a trade unionist, also in the office of the Trade Union Public Service in St. Pölten, when it was about creating the framework conditions for the workers there. The Danube University of Krems, even though Mr Rada and Mr Moser do not want to take note of it, is an important aspect of employment in this region. Qualified jobs are offered there, qualified staff are required in both scientific and non-scientific fields. This university goes back to the idea of the former head of state Siegfried Ludwig, who started with it at a time when Social Democratic industrial ruins were saddening. At the time we thought about the old tobacco factory, and there was the innovative idea born, the DUK, which used to be different it was said to install there. On this, Mr Rada, we should be happy together as a Lower Austrian. I am only wondering why Mr Bauer, who at the time as a member of the government in Lower Austria has contributed a great deal to the fact that it has come to the start of this institution, is not allowed to speak today, but only to speak the raunzers from the Socialist Party who do not want to take note that something positive is happening here. I would like to thank all those who have contributed to the fact that the vision of the time has become a fixed institution in Lower Austria, which is an essential element in view of the enlargement of the EU. Mr Rada, it is also not true that the federal government has withdrawn the benefits, but the country of Lower Austria has provided 47.3 million euros in the summer of last year as a second step to what the federal government has done, although the benefits have not been withdrawn. Therefore: A beautiful day for the Danube University of Krems, a beautiful day for the state of Lower Austria, an island of humanity in the sense of the philosophy of Captain Dr. Pröll!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e17818	Next speaker: Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e17858	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr Kummerer, in my speech, I wanted to draw attention to something that has been a little downfall in the Committee, namely the opinion of the Federal Ministry of Finance. This is, I believe, not uninteresting if you look at the further development in particular. As Mr Schöls here spoke of a “island of humanity” and the Federal Ministry of Finance writes that the necessary funds must be raised either by a drastic increase in study fees or by the increase of federal funds, I must say: We'll see what's happening. A drastic increase in study fees would hardly be a “island of humanity” – at least not the way we interpret it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What's this about? – The Federal Ministry of Finance simply questions the calculations of the Ministry of Education. I found this very original in the committee, because Mrs Gehrer – unfortunately she is not here, otherwise she could have repeated it – said: What Grasser has calculated has never voted. – I would not want to doubt this in the light of our other experiences, but at least we look at it closely. The Ministry of Finance says: The calculations of the additional costs do not comply with the provisions of the Federal Budget Act. According to the draft Federal Ministry of Education, no additional costs will be incurred until the implementation costs of € 270 000. And on top of that: It is not understandable that no further costs are incurred for the federal government. The planned increase in scientific staff will more than double the cost from € 5 million to € 12 million from 2003 to 2007. These calculations were carried out by the Federal Ministry of Education itself – this is more cabaretistic now! – and are available to the Federal Ministry of Finance. And now this sentence already mentioned is coming: The additional funds must be provided either by a drastic increase in study fees or by a massive increase in federal funds under the benefit agreement and the global budget. - Quote. Now I only know one thing: We know the budget for this year, we know the budget for next year, at least the corresponding ideas, and there is certainly no mention of an increase in federal funds. So if you take the Ministry of Finance seriously, what you apparently do not do, just that the tuition fees are significantly increased. I'll tell you: Even if we agree today, we will take a close look at it! And you take responsibility for the fact that what Grasser writes is really wrong. If not, we will certainly continue to discuss this elsewhere.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e17904	In the word, no one has been reported for this. That concludes the debate. We shall proceed to the votes taken separately between the Committee's proposals. First, we vote on the law concerning the University of Krems (385 of the Supplements). In the event of approval of this draft law, I ask for a sign. – This was unanimously adopted at second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the proposal in third reading to give a sign. – unanimously adopted at third reading. We are voting on the Broukal, Green Forest resolution on €100 million as an immediate measure for universities. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the request of the Scientific Committee to give approval to the conclusion of the agreement with the State of Lower Austria pursuant to Article 15a B-VG on the extension of the University Centre. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to a sign. – The decision-making process has been taken unanimously. ==References== Agenda item done. 5. Point Report of the Scientific and Research Committee on the Government Template (345 D.B._Other Organiser Agreement between the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, the Czech Republic, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Poland, Romania, the Slovak Republic and the Republic of Slovenia on the promotion of cooperation in the field of Higher education within the framework of the Central European Exchange Programme for University Studies (CEEPUS II) (410 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e17983	We're now on the 5th. Agenda item. Mrs Wolfmayr spoke. Speech time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e18004	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We agree: The cultural and scientific exchange between us and the neighbouring countries, with which we met on 1 January. May grow even more together, is particularly necessary and has also been practiced for years. That is why I am pleased that I am speaking today on the subject of CEEPUS II, an agreement between Austria and many of our eastern neighbours, and I am pleased to give you this sensible and sustainable future design of a common education and science sector that is so important to the government template, through which a central European higher education network is to be created. I would also like to see this short presentation as an incentive for you to continue to apply for this excellent European project. Short to history and development to this day. At the end of 1993, a first agreement was reached in Budapest between Austria, Bulgaria, Poland, Slovakia, Slovenia and Hungary on the opening of cooperation in the field of education and training under CEEPUS – the abbreviation for Central European Exchange Programmes for University Studies. The law entered into force with 1. January 1995. Since then, Croatia, the Czech Republic and Romania have joined, and CEEPUS has been extended for another five years in 1998. On the occasion of the eighth meeting in Pressburg in 2002, it was decided that the so successful programme of the Bologna Declaration should be further developed accordingly. To remember: Bologna: ==References== In June 1999, 29 European Ministers of Education, Ministers of Education, declared their intention to create a European Higher Education Area. The necessary intensification should be achieved through joint study courses from each university – joint programmes – and joint degrees or double degrees – joint degrees. All courses, lectures and seminars are to be attended without restrictions and recognized at the home university without bureaucratic obstacles such as application, accounting clauses et cetera. From CEEPUS, in expert discussions of representatives of the above-mentioned States, the multilateral agreement CEEPUS II grew. It is planned for the duration of five years, i.e. of 1. January 2005 to 31. December 2009, with possibility of extension. Ladies and gentlemen! The intention of this Convention is obvious: Academic mobility in Central and Eastern Europe is to be achieved, networks between higher education institutions in the respective regions are to be promoted by means of scholarships, joint study programmes with double or joint degrees are to be developed. For this purpose, each Member State shall provide full scholarships, including the cost of living, any laboratory fees, accommodation, insurance, where applicable, adapted to the host country and inflation-protected. These scholarships are made available to students, young academics, university assistants, professors, other Contracting States, on their guidelines and conditions. All this is no longer practiced through the transfer of financial resources to abroad, is charged in scholarship months, not in money, but in time – a practical, unbureaucratic and useful solution. The administrative and organisational management is carried out by the organisations in the Member States. The costs to be borne by Austria for the maintenance of the General Secretariat and for scholarships from the Contracting States are budgeted from the Federal Ministry of Education, Science and Culture. Ladies and gentlemen! The opportunities that Austria grows up through CEEPUS II are excellent. More and more Austrian students are already accepting the wide range of bilateral and Austrian scholarships for stays in Central and Eastern European countries. The number of participants in exchange programmes continues to increase. CEEPUS II makes the academic mobility offer more extensive and even more attractive for students. My colleague Carina Felzmann will bring some concrete examples. This agreement CEEPUS II will surely require further extensions and extensions in the future, but in any case CEEPUS II is a success story. I am very happy and very proud that today, as an Austrian parliamentarian, we welcome the success of CEEPUS II as a promising model of the future, as it proves and is also a sign to the public, how important and important it is to us in the fields of education, culture and science with other countries, but in particular with our neighbours.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e18072	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Niederweiser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e18090	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! As mentioned above, we are dealing with the CEEPUS II programme. That means it already had a forerunner. It has worked well, and the contract is such that we are very happy to agree with it. I can only agree with the previous speaker's remarks on the importance of this Treaty and also on the importance of high school policy. [[Demonstratel accompaniment of the abg. Dr Wolfmayr]] But I do not want to leave this House unclear about the relations. We have 200 000 students at the universities and colleges in Austria, and this programme concerns about 200 students coming from various Eastern European countries from Bulgaria to Slovenia to study for a short time, two, three, four months, on the basis of a scholarship in Austria. We pay €600 000 for this. So you don't think it's a huge program we're talking about here. That we are talking about this shows, however, the need for the Austrian Convention. We need a decision by the National Council to make these €600 000 available to 200 students, while the Federal Minister of Education has not deleted more than a long time ago with an ordinary regulation 4,000, 5,000 teachers' posts in Austria. At that time, the House had nothing to decide, but we need a decision with these 200 students. So the need to rethink the importance of the individual decisions in the Austrian Convention is likely and is clearly comprehensible by this example. I would also like to take advantage of this opportunity if we are talking about a university topic to draw your attention to a very up-to-date, burning problem, namely: How are young academics doing today, four years after the start of a reactionary black and blue government? I have the current figures of labour market statistics here, in which the number of unemployed is differentiated according to training: University of Applied Sciences: 418, plus 97; Change compared to the previous year: plus 30 percent. [[Abg. Walch works on the laptop.]] – Mr Walch, unemployed: Isn't that interesting at all? – I just wanted to present that once. And as far as university degrees are concerned, it is not much better: unemployed academics with university degree: 7 798; increase compared to the previous year: plus 15 percent. So that you may have illustrated it a little more plastic, I can read from a letter that a graduate sent me some time ago, who studied in record time, completed with really excellent testimonies and perhaps had the wrong thing to study German studies and communication sciences. But she really enjoyed an excellent education at an Austrian university, specifically in Salzburg. This graduate writes: At the moment, on the basis of a small amount of work with the support of the students, the German integration course at the Volkshochschule and the project cooperation in the Middle Ages, I am still very supportive of my parents. I have colleagues at the Institute who have been dependent on four or five jobs for years or are still working. However, I believe that years of training have been too precious to waste them in this way. - Quote. I think that's something we should seriously break our heads on. And I would like to mention something that we would like to discuss in the Committee, namely the question of how the colleges are going on at the moment. Because if you see how unemployment rates rise, and then you still refuse these people to go from Bachelor's degree to a master's degree, and if that's just the preliminary step of what we expect from universities on the basis of performance contracts, you have to be clear that seeing eyes here are not only producing 15,000 unemployed academics, but then it will be 25 000 or 30 000 in three years. I can only say: That's the wrong way you're going. I'm appealing to you: Turn around, let's give these people a fair chance!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e18160	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Bleckmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e18179	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Niederwieser, look at the figures in the German comparison! Then you will see which state really reacts to the current situation as well as efficiently as possible, and find that Vienna is an absolute leader here and has the worst figures in this regard. So you should look at these figures, especially in the Federal comparison. You also know that, on the basis of your request, we have agreed on an appointment with Mrs. Minister, in which we will discuss exactly the high-school development plan, but also this problem. I'm very excited about what you're going to bring in. But now on the subject of the CEEPUS II programme. We've heard a lot about it, just one: It is not just 200 students, as you said, Mr Niederwieser, but it has been 776 students and 390 teachers from Austria since 1995 who have been affected or have come to this enjoyment to be funded with an average of € 940 per month. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: Yearly, annually!]] That's not so little. And there came to us after Austria 1 495 students and 623 teachers. This may not be epochal, you are right, but it is an important area that contributes to the exchange of views between students, but also among teachers, who can only be forced and promoted. I hope that the programme will not only be in force for five years, but that there will be programmes like this and many others over many years to force the exchange between Austria and the other countries. I am pleased that we will take a unanimous decision here.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e18218	Next speaker: Mr Grünewald. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e18237	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! With the Bologna process, the EU has decided to initiate a single university area in Europe, and there is, of course, a need for greater mobility, better exchange, better coordination between the individual Member States and the new acceding countries. That's quite clear. If we make a contribution here with this law to fulfill something of what you want, it is good and right, but also cheap – cheap in the sense of € 600,000. As Niederweiser has said, this will affect about 1 percent in the final development. That is, 1 per cent of all students in Austria will have the opportunity to learn from these countries for a few months, perhaps some of them to learn here for a short time. It's not crazy much, and I think it's too early to rejoice. It is very good that you plan joint study courses, if necessary double studies, which can then be reckoned on both sides. But what we see again and again, and that is why it is easy to agree on something: that some things are easier to decide than to realize. Now we have a nice decision, but we have to see what will happen from these budgets, because the facts ultimately look a little different. If you see that at the universities the so-called travel pots that serve to attend international workshops, to provide conferences with young scientists, to be cleared out, to serve as hard funds or as emergency funds, if any invoices cannot be paid, or if you may want to hire a secretary or a scientist, you will realize how little it really is with this mobility. It will also be possible to see to what extent the employment law for foreigners can be further liberalised, because when foreign students from the former are They will now pay full tuition fees as EU nationals and will probably have to work alongside the Austrian students. This must first be coordinated and made possible. In the ministry itself, the responsible section director Weitgruber told us that for larger international exchange programmes there was still a lack of money and that cuts had to be made in this area – see ERASMUS et cetera pp. That is to say, it is far from as we want, and the quota of those who can fit into these exchange programmes is appallingly small in themselves. We should therefore also call for an evaluation of international mobility to be commissioned by the Ministry – that does not have to be an agency, that can also be experts – to see how high the percentage is and whether the support measures only cover the cost of living. Otherwise Get They are once again a social gap, and the better people, who may later become unemployed less often, will be able to seek better care at a private medical school with 50 students, will be able to approve better stays abroad due to the income of parents et cetera pp. This means that we should also look if we already want to be patriotic and open up here and also want to put Austria in a positive light, with what care relationship and what space and space offer foreign students are confronted at our universities. It's not that you have to do nothing because it means it's people from the East. There is also a need to offer something good to them – and also to the domestics; in this case I even admit it. So perhaps we can once again decide on a joint proposal that will spend or invest slightly more than €600 000, because visions alone are not sufficient to improve the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e18295	Next speaker: Mrs Felzmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e18313	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr. Dr. Niederwieser referred earlier to the unemployment rate in the field of university graduates. I didn't know. Is this a plea for or against university education? – He also meant that you might want to break your head over what you do with the people. Mr Niederweiser, you simply assume that this government has already broken its head and has addressed many of these issues of principle. The fact is that the economy is the basis for the generation of jobs and that this government has already done a lot on the subject of economics – because only in this way can we achieve an increased number of jobs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] EU enlargement is now underway. The neighbouring countries will meet in a united Europe in a few weeks' time. Now, of course, the question is: What do we need to get together? – It is, of course, the good will on the one hand, on the other hand it is the training, the cooperation in research, in science. Austria, like our neighbouring countries, has a very excellent education system – although unfortunately there are cakes in some universities, which certainly does not help to stimulate our image in the national and international connex. As far as CEEPUS is concerned and the questions are concerned: What's behind that? How does cooperation between universities work?, I would like to take two examples. For example, the Technical University of Vienna has been looking for cooperation with a small university in Bulgaria. These two universities have joined forces to build a joint-study project in water and road construction, with students then receiving a double diploma. The trigger for this joint study area was the Austrian and German economies, which attach great importance to the Austrian level of education. I spoke briefly with the Vice-Cector for Teaching, Professor Kaiser, to hear: How does this work in practice? How satisfied is the university and how meaningful does it feel? – This is also on the subject of evaluation. – Professor Kaiser was able to confirm to me: It is a very excellent programme, and it is very much used. Another example is Network H-19. This is a combination of various veterinary universities and faculties. This is about pooling resources. For example, the Vetmed in Vienna does not have enough large operating rooms for large animals, and there was a remedy to be found in a cooperation with Slovakia, which has these rooms at its university and can offer the local students. You see, these are very practical examples, which, although not yet able to be implemented to a large extent, are already marked by great successes in small ones. All concerned are in favour of continuing these projects. We also believe that it is necessary for the creation of a European Higher Education Area to support these projects, even if they take place to a lesser extent. We are therefore pleased that all the political groups have agreed on this point.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e18368	Next speaker: Mr Krainer. Speech time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e18386	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! At the speech of Mr Bleckmann, Reference to the last 30 years is missing, but this may be due to the fact that it should have said something positive about the last 30 years – and of course it does not happen to her lips. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] CEEPUS is a successful, very successful project – despite all the unknowings that existed during the introduction. At that time, there was a fear that all students from Eastern European countries would want to come to Vienna or Austria and not to study Austrian students in Eastern European countries and do not want to teach teachers there. In spite of these unmistakable calls, it has then been shown that it was not so, but that – in the technical language – the “incoming” and “outgoing” persons have kept themselves in about the balance, as far as the duration and the months of scholarships are concerned, that the project is very positive in the subsequent evaluation by the teachers and students and that it is to be described as very successful. As successful as it is, it is so insignificant or so small from quantity, because we speak of 69 students from Austria who went to Eastern European countries last year, and vice versa, 242 people from Eastern European countries who have come to Austria to study. The Austrians were there for about three months and the Eastern Europeans were here with us for about two months. This is about a tenth or less than a tenth of what is achieved through programmes with Western European universities and countries. To this end, it appears that it is necessary to do much more here if we are to achieve an international union similar to that of Western European countries. It is not because there is a lack of interest on the part of teachers or students. There are about two and a half times as many of these programmes as they can actually be accepted, because the capacity is not sufficient. In other words, if capacity or supply were to be increased, there would be no problem with the need, because there is much more that would like to participate. However, despite the dementis of the Federal Minister in the Committee, we also have some homework to do in Austria, of course. I asked them how this is with Article 6 of the Treaty, where it points out that barriers in Austria, or generally in the various countries, are to be eliminated – administrative, financial barriers, which are mainly linked to visas. Their existence they have disputed roundly, they do not exist according to their representation. And here, in today’s “Kurier” – you can read it again and again in the newspaper – you can read the following on page 17 – I can quote from it: “Scientists urgently needed” is the title. “It should be clearer than for workers in other areas for scientists from the candidate countries to research in the ‘old’ EU from May onwards. Should: In practice, the path of the researchers to the EU of the 15 with Schikanen was paved, reports Manfred Horvat, Head of the International Research and Technology Cooperation Office (BIT). For example, recently a Polish grant holder had to submit a valid rental contract to the authorities three months before the start of her internship in Vienna. In order to achieve the EU’s Lisbon objectives, which aim to increase research and development expenditure to 3 per cent of GDP by 2010, there would need to be an additional range of between 700 000 and 900 000 scientists across the EU. The contribution of the candidate countries to this could be great. & Hor: “There is a great human potential.” – Citation. And indeed: If we want to achieve this common objective, 3 per cent of the gross domestic product for research and development, a bird-traffic policy, as the Minister is doing on this issue, will not help us, but we will also have to consider domestically what we can do here in order to make it easier for students from Central and Eastern European countries to accept scholarships in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e18437	The next speaker was Mr Schweisgut. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e18456	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I may also be allowed to sum up briefly – most of it has already been said, even though the numbers and the game of numbers have been somewhat different from the different parties –: I believe, with the law that we decide here, we do not decide what is very irrelevant or what is actually in the field of universities – just as Mr Niederwieser said – is not worthy of discussion at all, but it is something in which we also think very strongly about the future. It is particularly important for us Austrians, who are in the heart of the new Europe, who want to be the bridge to the former Eastern states, that we build these bridges also in the university area, and that we perceive the possibilities of training, both for students and for teachers, in the future. These exist on both sides, and that is why I think this law is very important and will also be adopted with a far-reaching view for the future. If we hear that it is only about 500 students and teachers who currently dare this exchange every year, then we should also take into account the economic figures, which clearly speak for a very strong future economic aspect in the new countries, assume that we must form networks in particular in the area of language and also in various other areas, and these networks must be coordinated between the Austrian and the foreign institutions. I believe that the figures from the past few years indicate that the need to catch up in training among our neighbours is increasing and that the figures there are also very important for us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Three and a half months of average study duration, which is of course not much. However, considering that the duration of their work abroad for many teachers is a shorter one, it can be assumed that students are still spending at least one semester abroad. The recognition of these semesters for their own studies is certainly of enormous importance in the future. The language barrier that exists between us and many of our Eastern European neighbours is certainly a problem. However, this can only be overcome if there is mutual exchange in the coming years. I am pleased that colleague Felzmann also referred to the example of cooperation between the Veterinary Medical University of Vienna and Slovakia. In my area too, there is a very good cooperation with the teachers in Slovakia, and I see that there is an effort there to continue to open up in the future. As a tourist speaker of the ÖVP, I would of course also like to put tourism in the balance. I believe that in the future there will be a booming tourism in our neighboring countries and that we will certainly have a need to catch up in the area of guest care, especially as regards the language. This means that even our tourism professionals, including our tourism students, will have to be able to address the Eastern European guest more in the future, and this also includes better training. I believe that exchange in this area is also very important for all of us in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] CEEPUS II creates a better European higher education area. With the provision of approximately € 1 million, we will create an incentive for students to enter the venture to spend at least one month in Eastern Europe, and thus to build bridges to Eastern Europe and a united Europe. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e18522	The next speaker was Mrs Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e18540	Ladies and gentlemen! CEEPUS II aims to create a European Higher Education Area, to develop joint study opportunities, to facilitate joint degrees and to increase academic mobility. Of course, cooperation with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe is of great relevance, especially with regard to EU enlargement, and academic mobility brings about an important scientific transfer, which is not only a one-way, but can also act as a motivating and promoting one another. There are €658,000 available for about 700 young people who receive grants of €940 per month on average, and – that is really remarkable – these people who receive the CEEPUS scholarships do not have to pay any tuition fees. I would like to congratulate you on this step. It is a very important insight that we have agreed with, namely the understanding that study fees – and just double study fees, how they have to pay young people from abroad who come to us to study here – especially for young people from Eastern European countries, and also to ban them from university operations. Of course, this also applies to Austrian students. It is proven and clear that tuition fees are increasingly excluded: They exclude children from workers and small employees, they exclude women more and more, they exclude students with children, they exclude professionals, they exclude people who pass through the second educational path to universities, and they exclude mobile students from poorer countries. And: Not only do they exclude tuition fees, but they are also highly insecure. I have been talking to dozens of students in the last few weeks, all of whom have received a letter stating that the tuition fees for the next semester in June will be notified to them, that the tuition fees will then be set autonomously and that nothing can be said about the amount of the tuition fees at present, but that they will then experience this anyway in June. – I do not think you can imagine how much these young people are unsure, namely, whether they will be financially able to continue their studies. In any case, this is not a contribution to increasing the academic rate in Austria. And study fees certainly have no positive effect on our universities in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] However, the abolition of tuition fees for those students who receive a CEEPUS scholarship and participate in this programme is a really important first step towards social justice also at universities. I very much hope that you will be consistent and that you will also abolish the tuition fees for Austrian students. Not only because there is this insight into this agreement, but also because the Socialist Group believes that this agreement promotes the internationalisation of universities, we will agree to this agreement. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e18593	Next item is the report by Mr Zweytick. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e18613	Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to repeat briefly to my previous speaker: Fortunately, despite the even more negative presentation of the tuition fees in our country, we have never had as many applications as this year at the universities in Austria and at the same time never had as many degrees as last year. So the tuition fees already bring a certain movement in this market! They do not have any adverse effects at all. It could also be said, even from my side, that they are more beneficial for the students in this country and also for the universities. But this is not really the subject of my contribution, which is rather devoted to CEEPUS II, which has been mentioned so often. I have nothing left but to sum up what my previous speakers have already said: This Agreement will be extended for a period of five years until 2009. The participating countries are Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Slovakia and Slovenia. However, this higher education programme has been available since 1993. It is therefore nothing new, it is a good development, which certainly also benefits from the experience gained in recent years and moves towards further development and expansion. As an example, a cooperation from my region can also be mentioned: In Lebring, South Styria, there is a technology park where there is cooperation with the University of Maribor in northern Slovenia. This is a very fertilizing development, and that works well. In this context, CEEPUS II must also be referred to. Again: Austria provides 700 study months of the total of 4 300 study months available to the EU in this programme. And Austria was also the initiator of this idea. We currently have 125 applicants for the coming semester. It also turns out that the economics of the Austrian students are very much in demand. This is also due to the situation of the forthcoming enlargement and to the future major market in Europe, namely in the East. In fact, there will be great opportunities in the future, also for Austrian products, for Austrian research and for Austrian products. The increased effort to acquire knowledge in this field should ultimately also ensure the possibility to sell products in this market in the future and to place goods from Austria. That's why economics is so popular. Finally, I note that this important programme is now guaranteed for the future, as it is a welcome guarantee of funding in the Minister's budget. – I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e18650	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We are now voting on the Committee's request to approve the conclusion of the State Treaty in 345 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted. 6. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (355 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Consular Fees Act 1992 (393 d.b.) 7. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (344, e.g._Other Organiser Framework Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Slovak Republic on the cross-border cooperation of local authorities (394b.b.) 8. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (255 e.g._Other Organiser Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an Association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Arab Republic of Egypt, of the other part, and Annexes, Protocols and Final Act (395b) 9. Point Report of the Foreign Policy Committee on the Government Template (388, e.g._Other Organiser Euro-Mediterranean Association Agreements between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Lebanese Republic, of the other part, including Annexes, Protocols and Final Act (396, e.g.) 10. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (389, B.C.E._Other Organiser Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an Association between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Democratic People's Republic of Algeria, of the other part, and Annexes, Protocols and Final Act (397, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e18730	We shall now proceed to points 6 to 10 of the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker was Mr Spindelegger. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e18754	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At this hour I would like to make a few comments on the foreign policy proposals, but at the beginning I would like to express my great pleasure at the fact that all the issues of foreign policy on the agenda have been concluded unanimously in the Committee. This means that we have a broad consensus in foreign policy across all political groups, and I am pleased that this has succeeded. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! The Consular Fee Act is adapted to European rules. It is interesting in this regard to what is behind all the consular incidents in all the official acts carried out in this context. The number alone is impressive: In 2002 there were 600 000 official acts for Austrians or for foreigners, at least at the Austrian embassies abroad. This is an enormous number, which, as I have just learned, was raised by 15,000 in 2003. For me, this is an opportunity to say, in recognition of the Foreign Ministry, that there is great satisfaction, because we often learn from fellow citizens who are in need of effective assistance from our representative authorities. I would therefore like to thank all the Members of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on behalf of my group, especially the representative authorities, for doing good work for the Austrians. [[As a result of this, the European Parliament has adopted a number of amendments to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, namely the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty on European Union, and the Treaty on European Union on European Union on European Union, and the ……]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister does not support this either, because the Federal Minister also takes the phone listener into his hand in particularly tricky cases, lets her play contacts to do something for Austrians. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: Genoa? Volxtheater?]] Since you always mention this and smile a little inconsistency, ladies and gentlemen: Many Austrians also owe her freedom, for example. [[Abg. Sburny: Some U-Haft!]] There is an Austrian who was in prison in Cuba for over a year, near death because he was sick and was not treated there. She made three intervention with her counterpart in Cuba that he was transferred to Austria. So someone owes you his life too, you can lead this completely plastically in front of your eyes! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sburny.]] And she has made it for people who have tried to do it all over the world, and who have also been scarcely escaped from death; there she was with one. Remember that woman who was sentenced to death in Nigeria by stoning! The Foreign Minister, together with the UN Secretary-General and others, has managed to get rid of it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Prammer.]] Many have tried to admit this, but also our foreign minister is putting his hands on it and trying to help individuals, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to highlight this very positively. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I would like to mention briefly a second item on the agenda, namely an agreement between Austria and Slovakia, one of our neighbours, on cooperation between the local authorities. This is about spatial planning and transport. It is very positive that this is put on new legs. And here too the handwriting of the foreign minister is carried: Whoever pursues a long-term strategy in foreign policy, namely to view neighbouring countries as someone with whom we work well in a common European Union in the form of a regional partnership, will at some point be reaping a harvest, which for Austria means a change in the direction of a regional partnership in a large Europe, where not only large states such as Germany, France and the UK meet and are meeting in advance, but we are becoming a new core in this Union with Central Europe. I think this is a groundbreaking decision. The idea for this comes from Benita Ferrero-Waldner, the idea of a regional partnership, which you often smiled and cut down, in fact, a great foreign policy course that cannot be praised enough. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If now the Hungarian Prime Minister – who is not close to us! – coming to Austria and saying that he wants to work with Austria in this Europe, this is a great success. And it shows: If you make bridges at the right time, you can also go over it when it comes to it. Our foreign minister is a guarantee for this! [[We welcome Mr Scheibner and Mr Rossmann as well as the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).]] I am pleased that we have an experienced, competent, popular and above all a successful foreign minister. Even if it doesn't fit others: We can be proud of them!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e18858	The next item is the report by Mr Arbitrary. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e18876	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I too am glad that all these proposals will be adopted unanimously. And I think it is a sign that we as the opposition party – the government will of course always be for its proposals – not because of the fact that a Federal Presidential election campaign is in place and the foreign minister is a candidate for creating a different scale now, but the principle: If something is all right, then we agree!, maintain, proceed according to the matter, and not on personal questions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I believe that Mr Spindelegger is a little tempted by the fact that the President-in-Office of the Council has given a great deal of praise to his speech. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Are you surprised?]] – Yes, it surprises me, because it does not fit what he said before about unanimity and other things. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Not me! Because it's justified!]] And perhaps you too, Mr Klubobmann, are surprised that I am not going to react in the same way, so the excess of praise is not with an excess of criticism – how much criticism do you have to bring to balance this praise? [[Rejoicing at the ÖVP]] – wants to compensate, but only to deal with a few points, especially the Consular Fee Act. In fact, I think it is wrong that these proposals should be used too much praise, just as it would be wrong to bring back criticism that you have not always had – even when there was no presidential campaign – now. To the Consular Fee Act. I believe that it is right that fees should first be harmonised within the EU; it is happening and also right that we do not wait until the last moment, that is, until summer 2005, with the increase, since in some areas we are still below, that we are already going on this standard and taking it forward. I think it's most fine. I do not find the D-Fear – I have already mentioned it – in order because we are actually giving a bad example to all Austrians. What we criticised for many private individuals is that the Republic itself does: With a value that would be €72, it is said that we are rounding, with the argument that it would be necessary to use no euro hard money, but only paper money. So you're going to take a five jump. And because we round, we don't round from 72 to 70, but to 75 €, and then we can pay with paper money. Since, I think, the Republic is giving the tradesmen and the others whom we have said you should not make the euro the reason for price increases to round with the argument, a bad example. As far as the work of the consulates is concerned, I agree with Mr Spindelegger, which is why we voted in favour. The work being done there has really increased sharply, is all right. It is also all right for the Minister to be thanked, because I believe that the use in Cuba was also correct – I would like to stress that. I just don't think that's something so sensational, that's what all the Foreign Ministers of the Republic have done, no matter which group they belonged to, and that's important. We should also take a look at the fees consulates on this occasion. Many are doing a great and important work for Austria. While the selection criteria are somewhat old-fashioned and not transparent, we should probably set new ones here, but there is room for new ones, as in other areas, also in foreign policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e18948	The next item is the speech by Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e18966	Mr. Schieder! [[The speaker holds a ballpoint pen, located on the speaker's console, up to the height.]] I suppose the red BawaG pen is yours? [[Abg. Arbitrators: Not from me!]] No, no, no, Good! – But hopefully not by Raiffeisen, Mr Colleague! – But on the color of the organization perhaps! [[Abg. Arbitrator: I use a black one!]] [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: It doesn't matter to the color of the ballpoint pen!]] Mr President. Mrs. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would now like to deal less with electoral struggles, but rather with the Association Agreements that we have to decide first and foremost today, and I would like to very much support them. My group and I, too, personally have very often criticised this speaker's voice from various projects of the European Union. This project, however, through these association agreements – including the so-called Barcelona process – to bring the Mediterranean countries and especially the Arab countries of the Middle East to Europe, to integrate them, to signal that this region, these countries are important to us, is a very, very important and right project to support. We are also doing this out of full conviction, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I believe – and whoever has always been on the road in this region knows – that there are very great hopes in Europe and in the European Union. We know that we are dealing there with a long, decades-long conflict: the Middle East conflict, a spiral of violence! Especially in the last two years, the terrorist attacks – from many different sides – have unfortunately been repeated, there have been military actions and little hope of a negotiated solution to give people a perspective in peace, freedom and social security. It is now hoped that the European Union will become stronger than ever as an objective partner, as an objective mediator and as a supporter of these progressive, progressive forces in these countries, too, which want to give people a perspective in their homes and want to build social standards and economic standards. We all know: If people have a perspective when they see a future for themselves, they are less vulnerable to radical theses and terrorist ambitions. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This is probably a danger in all these countries that we are now dealing with. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Foreign Minister! I believe that there is also a very important role to be played here by Austria and the Austrian foreign policy. These countries – the Arab countries, the countries of the Middle East, the Mediterranean countries – expect Austria to take our good position in this region to work as a bridge between the Arab countries, the Arab world on the one hand, and Europe, on the other. Such agreements are quickly ratified and concluded, but very, very slowly really occupied with content. This occupation with content will also be our task, your job, Mrs Foreign Minister! I know that you are constantly forcing initiatives here to ensure that these agreements are really filled with content, because creating hopes is easy; disappointment is also very quick. And we have already disappointed many hopes in such crisis regions in the past. I hope – and this must also be the Austrian contribution – that we will help to ensure that the hopes that are currently being placed in these association agreements are not disappointed, but that they can form the basis for an economic, cultural, social, political cooperation between the Mediterranean countries and the European Union, and in particular with Austria. This is a real contribution to peace in this region and hence to our security, because we all know that our security is also affected by the situation in this region, in these countries with which we are now ratifying this Association Agreement.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e19054	Next is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e19072	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is rare that a green person comes to the speaker's desk and praises or says to the previous speaker of the Liberal Group: Yes, in this case I can fully agree with what Mr Scheibner said. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Nice to see you, Mrs. Colleague!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch:... that of you almost no one is there!]] But sometimes it happens, especially in matters relating to foreign policy – I find it pleasing. However, where I cannot entirely agree, the colleague of the ÖVP has expressed his opinion. I would like briefly to make a few comments on your comments, Dr. Spindelegger. Although, as you have already said, we have a broad consensus today – and I am pleased about this too; the agreement of my group on all the issues on the agenda today, I can anticipate that – I would nevertheless not necessarily conclude that this broad consensus means that there are hardly any points in foreign policy in which we do not agree. This is not the case, and you know it very well. To this end, I would rather say with my colleague, it simply proves the objectivity of the opposition that we agree on issues that are in fact content, which are also useful for us – and for Austria – and do not say partout: Just because Mrs Foreign Minister now wants to become President of the Federal Republic of Germany, we do not agree with that. That would be childish! We're not gonna do that! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: No! That's not what we do!]] However, the state of affairs does not always exist to the same extent – I would venture to claim – and take your example from that Austrian who was detained in Cuba and for whom the Minister has worked. It's quite all right for her to do that. But we have already debated this here, and I asked the question at that time whether she might have been working for the victims. At the time, there were two Austrians, one of whom - I don't know who that was - caused a car accident with five dead in an alcoholic state. It is true that he is in prison and that he will also come to Austria, but the idea of interested in what is happening to the members of these five dead, you, Mrs. Minister, answered me at the time that this is not our task, we would not have been able to do that. So I would expect you to understand this more widely, not only that you say that you brought it from Cuba to Austria, but also that you hold on to what has actually happened. [[Objection to the ÖVP]] The second point – we have already noted this in an intermediate call – concerns the Volxtheater-Karawane. Mrs Minister, it is still a long way off that you are apologizing here, because these people were acquitted in Italy two weeks ago! They have condemned them at the time! [[Call the ÖVP:No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] They never said that it did not agree that You're apologizing that you're sorry. [[Abg. Murauer: She looked over!]] I still expect that from you, Mrs. Minister! Let me now come to the contents! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In particular, I would like to address the Association Agreements and raise a few points here. This Barcelona process since 1995 is actually one that makes this region grow around the Mediterranean region – Europe and the Mediterranean – in a form that is not only concerned with the fact that sunny Europeans travel to the North African coast and are sung and served there by the locals, but also that it will actually be a process with giving and taking and that both partners also feel treated as such. This includes political dialogue, which is also taking place and which I very much welcome. The aim of a free trade agreement is the one point – in many respects I can quite agree with – but the other point is that all these states still have deficits – some very large – in the area of human rights, women's rights and democratisation, and that the only way to support civil society there is to promote women's organisations and women's participation in the political process, which is – that is what one can do from our side – such a political dialogue. For this, these association agreements and the structures that exist between the EU and the respective countries are very useful. Another point – which I noticed when studying the documents – is the following: The country that is still missing in all of this Connex is Syria. There are twelve countries, nine of them already exist, two now join the EU – Malta and Cyprus – and Turkey at least has candidate status. But is there an agreement with Syria? . Although the Commission has already put forward the proposal, the EU Council has, above all, said the UK, the Netherlands and, in part, Germany: No, we need a stronger pass on weapons of mass destruction. – Syria should first destroy the alleged chemical weapons before this agreement exists. I have concerns that now we are trying to prevent the agreement. I would like to know about you, Mrs Minister: Have you been committed to the fact that this agreement with Syria is very likely to be decided in the Council and then to ratification? – An actual process with all countries can only take place if Syria is involved. What applies to the other countries also applies to Syria. Only by this cooperation, this cooperation, this mixture of pressure and something for that can it be achieved that there are better conditions. In this respect, I sometimes lack the initiative from your side, Mrs. Minister. Let me come to something basic! It is, of course, relatively simple to be in favour of something, for which everyone else is in favour of it in the European Council and to present it here for ratification. But in those things where it's not that simple, it doesn't happen. These are the contracts, where there could also be initiatives from your side, for example as far as Syria is concerned. There could also be initiatives – perhaps closer to us – in order to come to other contracts that are not further processed by this Federal Government, namely – I do not want to address it at all – to the border agreement and to the intern agreement with the Czech Republic. You have always said that this is important, but now you are also on Bartenstein's line, which says: We remain restrictive until unemployment decreases. [[Abg. Amon: Maybe we have a different position...!]] In the areas where it is difficult in the government to find agreement, Mrs Minister, I lack the force of enforcement. They won't show you there. I say: It is relatively easy to present the Association Agreements with Egypt, Lebanon and Algeria, which are now in place. But there is no resistance, these are good agreements. But where does your initiative remain with those things that are not so easy to fulfil? – Mrs Minister, I can only conclude with the words of Mark Malloch Brown, the director of the UN Development Programme, who asked the four development policy speakers of this House, when we were in New York in November, what role does Austria play, for example, in the UN structural reform of the UN when he said he was missing Austrian leadership. Mrs. Minister! Unfortunately, many things are all right with you, there are several interesting points where you can say, yes, okay, but this political leadership to set initiatives that are more than a human rights manual – that is already good – to set political initiatives in which you feel that this good name, the Austrian name in many countries, is worth something in the UN, has been used too little by you. This is also my political criticism of you, which I must say here again in this sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e19188	Next item is the report by Mr Dr. Fassl evening. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e19206	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to say how pleased I am that there will be an agreement between Austria and Slovakia, one that allows cooperation at different levels of local authority. In practice, it has shown that there is indeed a major problem because the competences are very different. We have seen, for example, during the negotiations and discussions on the establishment of a PSE bridge at Marchegg, but also at Hohenau, that in Austria the competence lies with the respective state or federal government, but at the same time the competence is based on the Slovak side at the local level. That means that the mayor is responsible for the approval. Without this agreement, it is therefore very difficult to conduct such negotiations legally and also to carry out appropriate conclusions. The second point is the Euro-Mediterranean Agreements. I also think this is very necessary. I can still remember when, at the end of the eighties, the Moroccan Foreign Minister in Vienna was visiting. At that time, Morocco has already applied to be included as a full member of the EU. This shows this profound interest, which is particularly evident in the Maghreb States. I believe that from a European point of view, it is probably one of the most important matters at all to contribute to the stabilisation of North Africa. I am therefore very glad that you, Mrs Minister, have not only involved in your activities, but that you have put great emphasis on a neighbourhood policy. This is undoubtedly the most important thing. What I don't understand about this – I also want to say – is the following: Mrs Lunacek, not even two hours ago, a colleague of yours came out of here and complained that we have too many unemployed. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: They no longer have colleagues in the ranks for this!]] – Does that mean anything to you? Do you know that the average wage level in Slovakia is a seventh of the Austrian? [[Abg. May. Lunacek: I talked about the Czech Republic!]] Do you know what happens when you open the borders in a relationship where the city border of Preßburg is 35 kilometers from Vienna? [[Abg. May. Lunacek: It's in the government statement!]] You know that? - I think that's bad! I think it's bad to just act like it's nothing to talk like once and then different again! [[Abg. Sburny: Read your government statement!]] I would like to see that there really is a line behind it, which is also aimed at the people concerned. And I miss that with you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would like to say to Mr Arbitrator: Mr. Schieder, I was pleased about your words, the little arbitrator's salto. I was delighted that Mr Spindelegger's special praise had to be balanced with some criticism. [[Abg. Scheibner: Arbitrators and Salto?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Indistinctness with referees!]] But I'd say, If you really need to praise Mrs. Minister, you should not be held back by party reasons. You have to praise her, she's really good! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] You shouldn't worry, she'll... [[Abg. Arbitrators: I think I have to nominate two counter-voicers now!]] – It will in any case continue to be responsible for foreign policy and for the external representation of Austria. I have to say that I have experienced her as a Secretary of State, preparing the EU Presidency of Austria. She did this not only excellently, but excellently! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If this has become a real success story, it was her. I'm sure she's already set the other course. Similarly, she has also been the chairman of the OSCE. I know that you see this in a similar way, Mr Arbitrator, that's why you're not doing it! If you're after that, tell me! - Okay, I'm sure my colleague Cap will find other words. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Don't exasperate us too much!]] [[General hustle and bustle.]] In any case, let us express our joy accordingly! We are really proud of the Minister. We are not only proud, but we are very happy that we have them because they do so much for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e19360	The next item is the report by Mr Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e19407	It was at least an impressive plea by Mr Fassleven that Mrs Foreign Minister should stay. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Otherwise, I can't understand the love statement you made here from this stage. You have to tell the voter that he is also acting accordingly. My task is, as always, to deal critically with foreign policy issues here. I would like to deal with the issues of agenda items 8, 9 and 10, namely the Euro-Mediterranean Agreements. We have also looked at the homepage of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – because we are so happy to look at homepages now. The euro-Mediterranean region has not yet fully settled: Under the title ‘The Ministry of Foreign Affairs – There for You Worldwide’, the area of ‘External European Space’ of the Middle East, Africa south of Sahara, North Africa, the Asia-Pacific region, North America, Latin America and the Caribbean will appear. The Euro-Mediterranean region has not really settled down. You should review the homepage, which is certainly cheaper than other comparable homepages, maybe something and also give this room a little validity. [[Rejoicing with the Greens]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Now you are not right!]] I would add that all of us have followed with interest the discussion on the Barcelona process, the famous Euro-Mediterranean Foreign Ministers Conference, which took place in November 1995. There a Euro-Mediterranean partnership was negotiated, which can only be welcomed. The many problems that develop in this area concern not only the military component, but also a cultural, an economic component, but not primarily the economic component. Mrs Foreign Minister, I think we once had a meeting in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, where you supported the ideas and initiatives developed by Joschka Fischer. It is always so, it is commented, it is interpreted. But the question is: Where are the initiatives you are taking?, so then Joschka Fischer says: I think that what Mrs Commissioner Benita Ferrero-Waldner is doing is interesting. – You know, this seems to be the qualitative difference in foreign policy. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Ferrero-Waldner.]] – You’re still going to put up with this criticism because you just murmured a little involuntarily. In any case, this comment, I believe, is justified. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Some smiles agreeing with the ÖVP members confirm to me that in my criticism I seem to be really on the right path. [[Abg. May. Molterer: consent for Ferrero-Waldner!]] The decisive idea of the Joschka Fischer is – although he presents the NATO initiative as part of this idea and the Barcelona process is the basis – that the real fight against terrorism is not a primary military one. It is a question of social and cultural modernisation, of democracy, of the rule of law, of women's rights and of how governments are led and coordinated. It is also about the fact that on this basis there is a cultural process of understanding, perhaps even integration. There can then be different opinions, as the French have pointed out, for example, that this must first be done in the northern and southern Mediterranean and then developed in the eastern Mediterranean. But the basic idea of really setting up these initiatives, I believe, is an idea that sends a signal of independence, also to the United States. It is an idea that gives the European Union a position in the Mediterranean. You know, the problems we have are of course also economic. Of course, we would like Algeria, Morocco, Tunisia, that is, the Maghreb zone, to develop in such a way that there are no migration flows, but that there is an infrastructure there, that there is an economic basis, that one sees a value in working there too, but also in association and in cooperation for both sides there is something meaningful. This cannot be limited only to the question of the free trade zone or to the economic question, nor can it be limited solely to the military component. Every fight against terrorism, which is cut short on a military struggle, is too short. This may be interesting for the arms industry, but it will not solve anything. That is why this fishing initiative is a very positive one. It should be understood and understood in this overall work of art, I would almost say. – Shame, Mrs. Foreign Minister, that this idea did not come to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e19486	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Mainoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e19507	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! It is almost tangible to feel that the presidential election campaign is at hand. It is almost all the speeches of it. We liberals will certainly not express their views here, in this form in particular. The issue of Euro-Mediterranean Agreements gives me the opportunity to talk about a very different important topic, which is far too little to be heard of from the opposition. In the context of EU enlargement, I believe that an important aspect has never been discussed, possibly overlooked. These are the costs of this enlargement. For all those who have this enlargement euphoria, the issue of enlargement costs must be discussed. I do not share this unrestricted euphoria. There has been a paper from the European Commission for 14 days now, which informs us of the wishes and ideas that we hold and maintain until 2013. I would like to point out that the enlargement of the European Union certainly makes a contribution to peace, which may also bring an economic advantage to many. The fact is, however, that at least for all Austrian citizens costs are also incurred. This paper, under the title “Financial perspective for the years 2007 to 2013,” says roughly the following: The current budget of the European Union is €99 billion. In view of enlargement, the European Commission is planning that €138 billion will be needed in 2008 and, finally, €158 billion in 2013. Ladies and gentlemen, for Austria, the following means: We are currently paying €2.2 billion annually to the European Union. In 2008, this would be €2.9 billion and in 2013 at last €3.1 billion. As an example, I mention another number that is very important to us, because we are net payers. The Austrian net position currently looks as follows: We pay net € 450 million more than we get back, including the subsidies. In 2008 we pay € 900 million more. In 2013, as the European Commission wishes, it is €1.4 billion that we pay net more each year than we get. Why is that happening? Why is the sheer going further apart here? – This is because the European Union’s priorities for Austria are detrimental. That's how it's in this paper. The European Union's 2007 priorities are first sustainable growth, second, Union citizenship and third Europe as a global partner. So not only do we have to pay much more for these enlargement efforts by the year 2013, we will also get a lot less out of the funding. This is, however, only the first part of this enlargement cost, which is due to us Austrians. Moreover, the insolent desire for direct taxes comes. This topic has been discussed for many years and it is currently floating like a damocles sword over all European states. It is about whether or not a kerosene tax may be introduced or whether VAT is increased by one percentage point and transferred directly to the European Union. I therefore think it necessary for this enlargement euphoria, which some in this House have here attached, to finally turn aside from reason. For one thing you need to know: Enlargement always costs us something, and we should think about it.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e19553	The next speaker is Mr Murauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e19571	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! You can really say: It is a very good and quiet discussion of foreign policy, which is taking place here today. I think that's all right. There is also a good climate, and that is why, I would like to say, the Foreign Minister Benita Ferrero-Waldner is always very hard to do. I would like to thank Mr Cap for having been relatively serious here. I have to say: I didn't expect that to be so serious. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Schieder, too, meant that one could not have as much criticism as one could say positive things about the Foreign Minister in order to get quite close to it. – I have In any case, you understood, Mr. Schieder. [[Abg. Arbitrators: No, no! You got me wrong!]] That's why I didn't understand you correctly. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Aware!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Under the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement, North African policy is also an essential part of the security policy. It is also increasingly a security matter for foreign policy. We in Austria, too, have established the security policy more widely than the previous doctrine provided. In addition to internal and military tasks, foreign policy is a major part of the process. It has already been said that the Barcelona process was relevant. Of course, Austria also wants to make a contribution and is committed to supporting security policy in these countries as well. Already in the Committee and again today, Dr. Cap asked Mrs. Foreign Minister what she had initiated and what course she had taken, and basically meant that she could not be like his green friend Joschka Fischer, who is obviously the prototype of a foreign minister in Europe. To do this, I have to say: He's doing quite well, but I think we have the right foreign minister! In this context, as mentioned in the Committee on Budgets, I am allowed to cut down the intervention of the Maghreb countries. I think that was a very personal intervention, a request from the Maghreb states to take on Hussein's influence, that he helps to prevent the war that was at the doorstep. The same stored states with the same religion were asked to do everything they could to prevent this war. After the war, they asked for immediate support from the poorest. Security in the countries of Algeria, Lebanon and Egypt is about security in the areas of culture, democratic principles, prosperity and peace. But this is also about our safety. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to thank you very much for your work. If today also some criticism was made by the opposition, that is, I think, a little bit of their business. What's in the foreground is your effort, that's your successful foreign policy, that's your international reputation and recognition. The charm that accompanies you there always leads to success. I wish you all the best at all levels where you are still working.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e19631	Mrs Ferrero-Waldner has spoken from the government bank. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e19650	Mr President. High house! First of all, I would like to thank you for the relatively broad support I have given to my foreign policy, and I am delighted that I have always tried to pursue an objective foreign policy. Ladies and gentlemen! There are two main issues on the agenda today: One is the Euro-Mediterranean Agreements and the other is the Consular Fees Act. As far as the Mediterranean agreements are concerned, I can say that, as some of the previous speakers have mentioned, I have seen this world area as a very important one since I was working as a State Secretary. This is reflected in the fact that I keep in constant contact with the countries there. I should like to say to the 1995 Barcelona Agreement, which you mentioned, Mr Cap, that: I have so far participated, with the exception of a single one, in all the Barcelona meetings. I believe that I am the only person in the European Union – also due to the length of my activity – who has participated in all the Barcelona meetings, from the first, except for one. Why? - Because it was a very big concern to me. I tell you – and it is perfectly right what has been said here: It is not just the economic conditions that are important, but above all it is the question of political stability for all of us – more for Europe than for the United States of America! – a very special role. But I would also like to say to you, as far as Joschka Fischer's initiative is concerned: I was myself at the security conference in Munich, where Horst Telchik was the organizer, and I heard the lecture by Joschka Fischer there and also commented on it. He took up something that was initiated by the French many years ago – at the time I was a diplomat in Paris – and reworded a little. He has cooperated with the Americans in the background, as we know. What he has proposed is actually something like a Mediterranean OSCE. This is certainly not a bad idea, but one thing is essential, and I also said that in my intervention in Munich, and it has also now come to the Council of Foreign Ministers that it would be wrong to re-establish this initiative in order to eliminate the Middle East conflict. There is a danger of saying: We want a democratic offensive for the Arab countries, but we want to avoid the Middle East conflict, which is largely due to the fact that the whole region cannot get to rest. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. May. Lunacek: That must not be said by Joschka Fischer!]] This has not only been addressed by me, but also by the Irish EU Presidency, among other things. I would like to say to the Association Agreements which are on the agenda today: It is very important to us to implement it. It is particularly important to us – and, Mrs Lunacek, I am surprised that you have just mentioned this briefly today – to pay particular attention to respect for democratic principles, human rights and also the principles of the rule of law. For example, the European Union is carrying out projects of the social-human component in Egypt through the promotion of NGOs and seven projects of 4.5 million for initiatives in this area. However, it is also important to promote regional and sub-regional trade and thus to create more attractive foreign direct investment. As far as Syria is concerned, the agreement is almost negotiated. You're right if you say this is just about the issue of weapons of mass destruction. We have always made every effort to ensure that the agreements are concluded as quickly as possible so that this free trade area for 2010 finally comes to fruition. I think that both sides have one more step to take, but I am confident that this will succeed. As far as the initiatives are concerned, Mr Cap, where the Germans were very likely to follow us, I should like to say: As regards freedom of movement for workers and, above all, freedom to provide services, we have from the outset called for much more than the Germans, which have been much more hesitant. But you've seen very well that this was important and right. We decided to implement the Council of Ministers two days ago, and it was very important to find a solution that would benefit Austrians and ensure the labour market. That is exactly what it is all about, Mrs Lunacek, and that is why there is a careful approach. It doesn't mean that it's not coming, it'll be safe. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: But when?]] It will come when it is good for the Austrian labour market. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] As far as the Consular Fees Act is concerned, I would like to tell you that more than 400 000 visas are issued annually by the Austrian representative authorities. But that's just a part of consular services. As a foreign minister, it was my concern to shape this part of the service-oriented, and it is really true that there is a contact person around the clock for any emergency situations. This is not a matter of course, but it is, of course, done in this way with us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] There is the public service, the service of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is available around the clock seven days a week, from 0 a.m. to 24 p.m. and which, of course, takes action at any time. By the way, this temporary service has also taken action at the so-called VolxtheaterKarawane. I myself, too. What I said was not a prejudgment. I had an information that might have been possible for internal use – I admit that. I said: You're predestined! That's a big difference! You're always very accurate, too. Therefore, be precise in this case too! Then, as soon as we knew where she was in prison, we offered this group a lawyer, right away, but he was rejected. But it is never spoken of! Then we did everything about our ambassador and a Special Representative – and that was a difficult process – to get these people out. As in all other cases, we have followed the processes around the clock. Last year, in 600 accidents, we had questions of organisational management and financial assistance to solve. We have made available €80 000 in financial resources for this purpose. These have been targeted to help Austrians financially. Other consular assistance was the care of prisoners, depots and assistance in cases of death abroad. Yesterday, two pilots crashed again, in Cagliari, Sardinia, a very sad news, but immediately our Honorary Consulate, commissioned by the Embassy, took action. I'm telling you, too. Important consular cases are always a matter of course chief, but of course they are also in good hands with my good officials. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Since good news is known to be no news, you have to say: There are countless cases that we are doing positively, but we are never talking about. For example, when I was in Munich about 14 days ago at the security conference, in the evening at the Kaiserball, I received the message from our general consul that 13 Austrians were locked in because they randalized. Mr Wiessheu was also on the ball, and I immediately contacted the Minister for the Interior of Bavaria via intervention from Minister Wisheu, and I released the Austrians in two hours that night. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I'm just saying, You don't hear anything about that! [[Abg. Arbitrators: Go to all balls!]] I don't want to list all the positive cases now, I'm just describing one more thing about Cuba because you mentioned Cuba. You didn't look at this case exactly! This was about an Austrian student who was in Cuba for a very long time because of an accident he caused. He had a drink, but not so much that he would have fallen below the alcohol line in Austria. First point. Second point – and I have to say that we have looked at this very carefully, I can remember this case very well –: It happened on a kind of motorway where at night a truck stood unlit on the right road, where five people were in the process of changing the tires. This Austrian student was forced into this truck, and these people there were dead. This was also a bad case for securing the truck. This case would certainly have found a completely different outcome in Austria. This young man would have been done forever if we had not allowed him to spend the rest of the months in a prison in Austria. He's done his studies a few years ago, and he came to me with a bouquet of flowers to tell me: Thank you very much! - I'm just saying: These, too, are cases of reality! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] To the visa area, I would like to say the following: In Moscow and Zurich we now have 60 000 visas a year, in Kiev 47 000, in Belgrade 37 000 and in Beijing 28 000. That's why my foreign exchange is: Exactly, but not minorly, and we must ensure the framework conditions that make it possible for visa seekers to come to their visa under acceptable circumstances! This is in the interest of the Austrian economy, which is in the interest of tourism, but that is also in the interest of the individual candidate. That is to say, to prevent developments that can lead to a massive redirection of the visa seekers to Austrian embassies – that is, I have arrived at the novelle to the Consular Fees Act – and that is also the reason why we have said: We want to act quickly, because otherwise there would have been a redirection of the visa seekers, and this would have been an additional burden on the Austrian embassies. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e19758	The next item is the report by Mr Dr. Einsamt. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e19776	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Bundesminister, we do not dispute that you are fulfilling the duties you have, but I do not think that is yet a particular reason for great praise. [[Call the ÖVP: Beautiful!]] I think it is natural for you to carry out your tasks, and we are also willing to acknowledge that. Let me speak, Mrs Federal Minister, on a specific subject to relativize a little what Mr Spindelegger gave praise here at the beginning. Consider the example of the framework agreement on administrative cooperation with the Slovak Republic! We agree because we believe that it is important that such agreements be concluded and that there is a framework for concrete cooperation. - That's not a problem. Mr Spindelegger said that this agreement and other agreements would be examples of how broad consensus is in foreign policy. Mrs Bundesminister, let me address another point in this context, which also plays a role with Slovakia, but not only with her, and also there is not that you are primarily making an accusation, but the whole federal government is making an accusation. So it is all right for us to conclude this framework agreement with Slovakia and ratify it here today, so much so that we wish there were also appropriate border agreements with our neighbouring countries. You know, there has long been the agreement that has been concluded, in itself the agreement with the Czech Republic, but the only agreement that has so far entered into force has been concluded and ratified with Hungary, and this has been concluded and ratified in 1998 under another majority of governments. What bothers us is that it is here that the seven-year transitional period for free movement of the labour market in the EU would have anything to do with citizens from the enlargement countries. What bothers us is that you act as if you had already achieved something with it. In fact, they haven't reached anything yet! The real problem is not that members of our neighbouring countries want to settle with us permanently, but the real problem is that there are day commuters who are looking for work in the context of a already problematic labour market situation – that has already been said by honourable Member Fassleven – and that there are no legal limits for this at present. They abolished them two years ago. At the time, they abolished them with the argument that making bilateral agreements would be a great failure, because then we could regulate it in a tailor-made way. What have you done since then? - Nothing you've done! You have concluded the agreement, but you have not even brought it into Parliament. Other agreements which had the same subject matter, namely the question of the extent to which and from which neighbouring countries are allowed or restricted, have not been concluded and not ratified. That's exactly what it's to criticise! What you tell here with the seven years is the scattering of sand into the eyes of the population and nothing else. They didn't do anything to prevent commuters coming over to us. You complain that there is a high level of unemployment, and you hope for the economic upturn, but you do not do anything for the economic upturn or for not extra counterparts to come as long as the labour market does not tolerate it. [[Abg. Großruck: This is very cheap polemic!]] That is not cheap polemics, but these are facts, Mr President. You could reply with facts if you had any, but you don't have one. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What we have to criticise, Mrs Federal Minister, is that you are unable to enforce within the government in the questions that would have been appropriate to enforce yourself, because otherwise it would have It has already been brought to Parliament by this agreement with the Czech Republic. – That’s what weakness is! Let me say a second, not just to end seriously. I was “fascined” – I have to say that – when I heard some speakers, all of them from the ÖVP say that you have to stay here, because you are such a great foreign minister. Congratulations! I think that in the ÖVP it should be made clear how one would like it to be: whether Mrs Ferrero-Waldner should become the Federal President or remain a foreign minister. I note that you felt that Mrs Ferrero-Waldner should remain a foreign minister. I'm right. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The only one I heard about was colleague Cap. With him I had the impression that he is quite sure that something is changing. I'm just not sure he's really in favour of you becoming the Federal President. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Take it off with Cap! We know what we want!]] I'm telling you, I'd be right if you weren't the Federal President. You do not have to remain a foreign minister for me either, because you were the best Secretary of State for me, which we have had in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e19866	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e19885	Mr President. Dear woman – still a foreign minister! I could now put a lot of emphasis on what Mr von One has said. A bit of annoyance has bothered me that he reduces the transition times, because I live right at the Slovak border, I talk to the masons in my environment and the employees of construction companies and I know: These are very happy that we have these regulations, and we also know very well that these regulations will be effective if we need them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Today's day, at least the foreign policy chapter, is under the title of cooperation with the neighbours, namely with the neighbours on the one side of the water, namely March, and with the neighbours on the other side of the large water, namely the Mediterranean. Both are agreements that, as time is just ripe, have reached the right stage. On the one hand, I am glad that we can conclude the framework agreement with the Slovak Republic. It is important for the Slovak side, because in Austria, the local authorities are already capable of action on the basis of the current rules. But that means the Slovaks can also enter into appropriate cooperation with us, we need this agreement, and I thank you for your decision. We also have the other side, the Mediterranean countries, and I had the special pleasure to travel to Egypt, and the very special pleasure I owe to our social-democratic colleagues that I was able to spend a few days extra off the tour group, because I should come home for the special meeting. I took advantage of this time away from the group and had a very long conversation with our ambassador. It has only become clear to me what good reputation Austria has, because I have also come to know Egyptians who still have a very good memory of our wife's foreign ministers from their visits. I have then also experienced that the Egyptians very much appreciate that Austrian officials, officials on security issues, are very helpful by passing on the falsification security of documents, the knowledge we have about them. These services are highly appreciated. This is active security work, far from our borders, and I thank all those who have introduced it with great competence. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is certainly a region – and this has been said very correctly by Mrs Foreign Minister – which is very important for peace in the Middle East and the impact on Europe. For me it was very impressive to see how many machine guns one protects the tourists there. I then remember this great kidnapping in Algeria and the role of our Mrs Foreign Minister. I can still remember a woman who said: She has also given us family members the feeling and the certainty that she takes our concerns and needs very seriously and with high personal commitment does everything to bring the matter to a good end as quickly as possible. We know that our Mrs Foreign Minister sets the right accents: in large and small with great joy, with great love and humanity and with charisma and character. And that is something she always uses for Austria – whether she works for us as a foreign minister or as President of the Federal Republic of Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e19942	The next item is the report by Mr Bauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e19960	Mr President. Mrs. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would also like to explain as one representing the border region that the border crossing agreement means something different than it has been communicated here. It means that one actually has a scheme, and that is not complete for the Czech Republic or for Slovakia and so on, except Hungary. That is why I believe that it can be described as a failure. What needs to be added is that the Foreign Employment Act is also reworded, because only then is it an effective instrument. We confess to the transitional periods, and there is still so much idealism to be brought in: We need this transitional period in the interests of the border population and also in order to control regional policy on our own, which the economy will need in these seven years. However, I would like to say that although today's proposals are adopted unanimously, it cannot be derived from the fact that, as Spindelegger has, for example, there is consensus everywhere in foreign policy. This would be a bit bold, especially, Mr President, if we continue with the regional partnership. This is actually an example of the fact that foreign policy towards the enlargement countries has not been as successful as it is; I would like to express it quite clearly. On the contrary: The acceding countries did not want to know anything about all of this, the strategic partnership was announced in the media, but in reality the new countries did not even “swallow with the earwashing” as they say in Lower Austrian. Secondly, The Višegrad countries intend to deepen their cooperation, where Austria is not at all involved. All that you, Mrs Federal Minister, claim that there have been great advances, is in fact not given. [[Federal Minister Dr. Ferrero-Waldner: Do you know the details?]] I know them very well! We are always talking about a common story, which was essentially ended in 1918 by the collapse of the Danube monarchy, where history was not always so clearly considered positive by all, while the others have a story that went together until the turn of 1989 and therefore, of course, the density of cooperation and also the knowledge of the agents is quite different from that which essentially ended in 1918. You can never forget that. I would like to mention something that Mr Mainoni said about EU enlargement and enlargement costs. In fact, it has always been said that there will be no additional burdens by 2006 – that is true too. But if you stop, you can expect an increase of €50 billion from 2007 to 2013 according to press reports. This would mean that for Austria an increase of 2.2 billion to 3.3 billion gross per year would occur, and the net payment position could increase from €450 million to 1.15 billion. The Social Democratic Party therefore convened the Council for Integration and Foreign Policy, as the attitude of the Federal Government and the Foreign Minister is in fact unclear. We assume that the net payer position of Austria is that one aims at 1% of the gross national product. There is, I think, a clear attitude. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we want to support any improvement in cooperation, as is the case now with the Madrid bilateral framework agreement, which is in implementation, because I believe that the capacity of the local authorities to act should actually be improved, by the fact that the obligations of these Treaties are determined accordingly. That is why we agree. But because we are pretending that foreign policy was particularly successful with the EU enlargement countries, I wanted to put it right once. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e20000	The next item is Mrs Felzmann's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e20018	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The most important event this year is the EU enlargement decision. It is one of the most important foreign policy decisions. This successful course is, of course, the key to our external Ministries. Thanks to Dr. Benita Ferrero-Waldner – unlike some other politicians who have recently recognized their love for foreign policy. It is our wife, Dr. Benita Ferrero-Waldner, who is an excellent representative of Austria abroad and has also done excellent work in times of sanctions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If Mr Cap and Mr One now say that the ÖVP regret to lose Mrs Ferrero-Waldner as a foreign minister, of course that is true. If you've worked very well with someone and very much like to work together, it's a pity, but at the same time we know Mrs. Dr. Benita Ferrero-Waldner with the best properties for the highest office in the state. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] On the topic “Set Flag”: I only remember briefly the visit to Israel, Jerusalem, in July 2003, when the confidence between these two countries could be restored, when Israel also acknowledged the share of the work of Dr. Ferrero-Waldner, since this Federal Government has made a real contribution to the past. This was a matter that former governments simply did not want to address. I would like to return to the agreement between Austria and Slovakia, which Mr Fassleven has already said: Now it is about legitimizing, a legal framework between the bodies, that those activities and projects, which are already taking place in part, are also enshrined by law. It is good that all the political groups are in favour of the joint implementation of this. I think the issue of partnerships concerns all the countries of Europe equally. Austria has recognised this and made a big contribution. I assume that we will continue on this course.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e20091	Mrs Hagenhofer is speaking next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e20109	Mr President. Mrs. Foreign Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We've been going back and forth for a while now, as if we had presidential elections. I would just like to point out that the issue is now foreign policy. We know, of course, the work of the Foreign Minister, but we also know the positive approaches that we have taken. Properties of our President Fischer very well, who is also candidates for this office. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Scheibner.]] Just one more comment: My predecessor meant that our candidate had no such foreign policy experience. – When President Khol became President of the First National Council, he gave an interview – I think it was in the press – in which he said he would not perceive the representation of the country of Austria externally as much as his predecessor Heinz Fischer, but he would be a strong president inward. – So much about the foreign policy competences of our President Fischer, who was given to him by the current President Khol in a press interview. Back to the Association Agreements, of which we today decide three – two which are about to be founded, namely with Egypt and Algeria, and one – the Association Agreement with Lebanon – which is almost a deepening. These Association Agreements set up major milestones and significant steps the EU's Mediterranean policy and the objective of contributing to stability, security and prosperity in the region and the Mediterranean. I am talking about the framework conditions set out in the agreements that will allow Lebanon, Algeria and Egypt to prepare for the free trade area planned by the EU, but in particular I am referring to the fact that these Association Agreements are an essential feature, namely respect for the principles of democracy and respect for human rights, to equality and to the fight against racism and intolerance. – These are essential approaches that contribute greatly to the peace and satisfaction of this area. How can this be done? – In this too, the agreement gives us guidelines and approaches. In particular, it is the political dialogue which has already been addressed several times today, which should also lead to a slow formation of democracies. Cooperation in the social field should also be carried out through regular dialogue on social issues. Cultural exchange is encouraged to develop also intercultural dialogue – for example, the differences between cultures and civilizations, in order to improve the understanding of the different cultures. However, it is also important to promote joint measures on the conservation and restoration of historical and cultural heritage, i.e. monuments and works of art. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) All these are essential approaches that serve people in Lebanon, in the EU, but also ourselves when we help. Mrs. Foreign Minister! It is also indicated the control. I would be interested in how this control will work if the Association Committee is responsible for the implementation of the Agreement and the Association Council for the monitoring of the Agreement. How will control be played in regional parliaments? The European Union and we will succeed with the agreement if we work with people and not against them. These Association Agreements give us the framework conditions and we are invited to set up appropriate activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e20187	The next item is the speech by Mr Ledolter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e20206	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I find it particularly impressive that in this debate, the opposition is constantly trying to criticise foreign policy, but above all to the person of our foreign minister, but that it does not really go beyond a few lustless approaches and some comments of some quality. Mr. Federal Minister other than Service One! Criticism of a successful minister is one – the test in the government obviously the other. You already have the nail sample behind you in several functions. Besides a few distinctive sayings of advertising nature, I don't really remember much either. Mrs Lunacek has repeatedly called for leadership. There are probably enough examples for this. We only need to take the Consular Fees Act, which is decided and implemented at great precision and considerable pace and which protects our external representations precisely from being added to it. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. The Federal Minister has already explained this. There are a number of achievements that demonstrate the competence and leadership of our Federal Minister. Just think of her role during the time of the maliciously broken sanctions or of how she has converted the ministry and the offices into a civil service, which represents the interests of Austria in an excellent way abroad, and which is always capable of helping precisely and helping to ensure that the interests of Austria are represented accordingly abroad. I'm just thinking about the geiseldrama in the Algerian desert. However, I am also thinking about the role of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Dr. Ferrero-Waldner in the period of the OSCE Presidency in 2000. At that time, she had a very far-reaching view of those crisis regions, which were then around the 11. ==References====External links== Many then passed the smile or smile that this forward-looking woman had partially negotiated with her policy at that time, but it was absolutely unjustified, as the events that followed. – Thank you for this wide view, thank you for this competence and for the massive representation of our interests! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In this context, mention should also be made of the “Reverse Europe” initiative, in which the prospects for the coming years are highlighted, or also the role of the spearhead in the interest of the newly joining smaller countries in the context of the demand for a Commissioner with the right to vote per candidate country. – All these projects clearly document the far-sighted view of the Ministry of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Ferrero-Waldner. This also proves their qualifications to carry out other higher tasks in this Republic with the same competence and quality. I only remember that the Minister of State not only understands Austrian interests because of their humanity, competence and sensitivity, but also because, on the basis of her language, she can parliaise with some 65 heads of state in this world in their native language. That is a quality, Mrs Federal Minister, which I believe does not bring any competitors into this form! I therefore wish you all the best and continue to be successful!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e20269	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Gartlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e20287	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Ledolter, I believe that the gentle association with the Federal Minister through our group is also due to the fact that we are sure and convinced that the people of Austria will make a right choice in this presidential election, and that we are very optimistic that Mr. Fischer will win! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] I think that is quite legitimate! I've already feared that my colleague, Na, is good. [[Abg. Scheibner: Finally stop the Federal Presidential election, everyone together!]] Let's get to the subject matter. Consular Fees Act: Mrs Bundesminister, we believe that the desired solution to adapt the Consular Fees Act in this way is reasonable. We are sure that this is a reasonable and very economic institution, considering that, as you have already done, more than 400 000 visas must be issued and administered by anno. The forthcoming solution is also good because it is also linked to additional revenue and cost reductions. But let me also ask You are right: I just recently learned about a more unpleasant consular matter in Sri Lanka in a radio broadcast; You will probably know this case: It is about the high consular charges that an Austrian had to pay in Sri Lanka, who wanted to bring his wife to Austria. I do not know the details in this regard, and it was not really clear from the mission where the problem lies. But in itself, the question of the Honorary Consulate is very much a question of interest, because one always feels that this supposedly selfless activity is not always and remains a selfless one. I think it was in the “help” mission in Ö1. However, let me also comment on Mr Mainoni's concerns about the costs related to the EU enlargement that he has raised today by quoting from an EU report. – I think you have to ask yourself if there is an alternative at these costs, and I think there is no reasonable alternative, except one is willing to accept higher costs for crime reduction and higher costs for military struggles and peace actions in the future. That is why I believe that the European Union and the European States' strategy to force the integration process is very reasonable, and I am also convinced that in Austria we will ultimately benefit very well because we know that the Austrians are already one of the leading investors in Eastern Europe today. Wherever you go, the Austrian, Austrian and Austrian companies are already very well represented. So we will certainly benefit from it! The distribution of costs in Austria and the allocation of taxes to the individual professional groups could be discussed. There may be some disadvantage on the part of the unself-employed. Otherwise, we are satisfied with this, but we must face this challenge. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e20330	Next item is the report by Mr Brader. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e20348	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I would like to make a brief comment on the comments made by my predecessor: I would not have his optimism, especially because I think that a Federal President also needs a certain degree of foreign policy experience, and I do not see it with our Second President of the National Council! [[Abg. Pepper: Go!]] He is not even in the Committee on Foreign Affairs! He was also expelled from the Integration Council three days after his appointment, but that was not a great loss because he was never present at his meetings in the previous year. Mr. Minister One! It's nice when a minister gets praise! You should know that! Or have you never received praise for your work? – Also probably! However, the debate is now under way with the Mediterranean Agreement and with the establishment of an association between the European Communities and their Member States and the Arab Republic of Egypt. – This Association Agreement replaces the existing one and, I believe, will also allow for a new quality in the EU’s external relations and in the bilateral relations of the two countries Austria and Egypt. A process was launched at the Barcelona Euro-Mediterranean Conference with the aim of creating a zone of peace and stability. I think the European Union is well advised to take advantage of this opportunity and to take action in this direction, and I believe that EU involvement in the various regional conflicts may also be able to open up the potential for solutions, along a path that deviates from the so often quoted “Fortification Europe” and that, as I believe, is the only possible way. – Our foreign minister has long recognized this and, with her concept of regional partnerships, has prepared the groundwork for enlargement and future cooperation. This new Euro-Mediterranean cooperation currently includes twelve partners, and with all other candidates – except Syria – this association agreement has now been initiated. I think that the fundamental elements, namely respect for human rights, democratic principles and security and economic cooperation, are very important and cannot be assessed sufficiently in the current situation. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this agreement is also very important in economic terms. After all, Egypt is a very important trading partner in the Mediterranean. And I am glad that this agreement will receive the approval of all!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e20385	Next item is the report by Mr Heinzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e20403	Ladies and gentlemen! The association of the European Union with the Mediterranean countries is an essential contribution to improving our political, economic and social relations with this area. Not least is one of the partners of the negotiations – as has already been mentioned – Egypt, and this state is one of Austria's most important trading partners in Africa, but also in the Middle East. The continued industrialization of this country also opens up new opportunities for Austrian mechanical and plant engineering. Ladies and gentlemen! It must not be forgotten, however, that the economic development of the Mediterranean countries as a whole cannot at present keep pace with the development of the population. Economic growth in the Mediterranean countries is only half as much as it would be necessary to provide sufficient jobs for the population there. The result is a progressive impoverishment of large parts of the population. And this situation is a good breeding ground for fundamentalism, extremism and other anti-democratic currents. It is also clear: A youth who has no future has nothing to lose either. The mutual opening of the EU's and the southern Mediterranean economies It is therefore only one aspect of the Mediterranean agreements. It also calls for greater political dialogue and cultural cooperation. This also includes the preparation of conflict-stricken issues. For example, the rights and opportunities of women in the Arab states in particular are, in most cases, very limited. For example, every year 80 million women die from complications during pregnancy and birth because they have no access to education and medical education. The North African region is therefore truly affected by this indescribable human suffering! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! With this in mind, I would like to say that you have not set up an initiative which, for example, would have facilitated the access of women in the Mediterranean countries to information and use of contraception. Minister! This is in stark contrast to your attempts to position itself as a woman with heart and as a women's rightsist in the Federal presidential election campaign that has been so often cited today! This is indeed in stark contrast! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that there are no such projects can certainly not be because there is too little money at your disposal! As your own answer to a parliamentary request can be found, you have spent a total of €382 663 – in old currency: 5.265 558 million schilling – on your own since your start of government in 2000! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! It is not to be understood that for such secondary things as personal PR, so much money is being wasted by you, if there were much more important aspects for the financing of a functioning Austrian foreign policy, such as development aid! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As beneficial as these agreements are, it would be so important for them to be supplemented by an active Austrian foreign policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e20470	The next item is the speech by Mr Böhm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e20488	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Foreign Minister, dear Benita! Europe continues to develop thanks to its excellent active cooperation. You, Mrs Minister, have traveled as an Austrian and often on behalf of politics many countries within and outside the European Union. You know the acting persons, and you'll be recognized. In the time of the sanctions of the EU-14, you, dear Benita, understood how to connect bodies in Austria as well as in the EU and find the right way in the field of tension between anti-European mood and heated emotion on the one hand and objective reasoning on the other. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I don't understand the excitement! Mr Heinzl “brilled” with great numbers earlier. I can only, if I take the gross national product and then calculate it down, the relation cannot imagine that you use 300 000 € for photo advertising on the one hand... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] Nevertheless, it is in no relation! Mr Col.: Without Benita Ferrero-Waldner, the EU enlargement would not or would not be in the form of it, as it did on 1 January. May 2004 will be carried out! With its concept of regional partnership, it has prepared the ground for enlargement and future cooperation in Europe. The integration of new members into the EU has changed the framework and increased cooperation has led to reforms and structural changes over the years. Border regions in particular have been among the less favoured regions for years. As a result of the opening up of the East and European integration, new prospects for the border areas have emerged, but new problems have also arisen. In this context, cross-border cooperation in the fields of politics, economy, culture and so on has often been called for to give this region new impetus to development. The proximity of Prussia and Vienna is not only a geographical one; it is above all an expression of a living and living friendship. Among such close neighbours, the personal conversation is particularly important. Especially in times of great challenges and dramatic global political change, the direct discussion is all the more necessary than our two states and peoples are equally affected by many developments in Europe and in the world. Close and broad cooperation between Slovakia and Austria is therefore in our mutual interest. With the forthcoming enlargement of the European Union to Central Europe, our relations will deepen further. We must prepare with all our strength now! Slovakia is one of those countries which have the best conditions for early accession to the European Union. Austria will continue to support Slovakia to the best of its strengths, and I am convinced that persistence and discretion will lead to success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e20542	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we reach the vote on the draft federal law amending the Consular Fees Act, including the title and receipt in 355 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – That is also unanimous. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty on a framework agreement with the The Slovak Republic on the cross-border cooperation of local authorities in 344 of the Supplements is authorised. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty on the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an Association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Arab Republic of Egypt, of the other part, and the Annexes, Protocols and Final Act in 255 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Policy within the meaning of Article 49. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that the embodiment of the German, Danish, English, Finnish, French, Greek, Italian, Dutch, Portuguese, Swedish, Spanish and Arabic language version of this State Treaty must be carried out by the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign to do so. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty on a Euro-Mediterranean Association Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Lebanese Republic, of the other part, and the Annexes, Protocols and Final Acts, in 388 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Policy within the meaning of Article 49. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that the embodiment of the German, Danish, English, Finnish, French, Greek The European Parliament, the Council and the European Parliament must be able to give their full support to the Commission's proposals. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign to do so. – This is unanimously adopted. We now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty on the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an Association between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Democratic People's Republic of Algeria, of the other part, and the Annexes to the Protocols and Final Act in 389 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Policy within the meaning of Article 49. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that the embodiment of the German, Danish, English, Finnish, French, Greek, Italian, Dutch, Portuguese, Swedish, Spanish and Arabic language version of this State Treaty must be carried out by the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted. 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Ulrike Lunacek, Mag. Barbara Prammer, colleagues in support of the peace process in Western Sahara (398 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e20680	Now we get to the 11th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mrs Magistrate. Prammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e20704	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! I too would like to refer briefly to what Mr Spindelegger said in the previous debate today: that everything would be unanimous and unanimous in terms of foreign policy. I very much regret that we do have a joint resolution, but the original draft, Mr Lunacek and I, could not find the approval of the government parties. I would like to take a brief look at what this is all about. For almost 30 years now, there has also been a regular discussion here in Parliament about the need for a very small people to support these people in the middle of the Algerian desert and that we must not forget these people. It has always been decided that Austria, including the small part of Austria, has to set up – and has already set up – many activities and that these activities must not be torn off. Now, in this joint motion for a resolution, a point has come out, namely, that, also a clear commitment to the fact that we should send a signal to the United Nations in particular, to guarantee support from Austria at any time, if there is any further activity or what we all wish for. I'm very sorry! I think it is precisely these initiatives that would also provide support to the Polisario, the people who have been living in the desert for 30 years, since now a whole generation. We must not forget: There, people who have never seen their home live in refugee camps, they know nothing but refugee camps, a very small group that may have had more attention before, but has become more and more forgotten with increasing numbers of conflicts around the world. We also know that international support is declining, that the health situation there has become worse in the camps, and that from Austria we have to do everything we can to give this support to people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mrs. Minister! I expect it not only to remain in this motion for a resolution, but also to ensure that Austria really sets out activities, in particular in the humanitarian field, to continue what is already happening – and in addition to putting some initiative at European level to signal people there: We have not forgotten them, little Austria does not forget the people in the desert, the caurus people! I would be very glad to hear a clear confession from you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e20755	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Hakl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e20774	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! We are debating the conflict in Western Sahara, Morocco, a few days after 600 people died in an earthquake in Morocco. I would like to express my sympathy for the whole house from the speaker's desk, but at least from us with the people who are hard hit by it. I am glad that we also provide humanitarian aid in the earthquake area. There are already 37 Austrians and 19 search dogs on site. Let's keep the thumbs together, that people can be saved alive! In Morocco, too, for 30 years there has been another pitiful conflict, and I am glad that we have tabled a joint motion for a resolution, which we will be initiating within the European Union, although not alone as before. We now have a European common foreign and security policy, all of which we want a common constitution and the strengthening of Europe's political role, and we also need to strengthen these foreign policy issues. That is why there is no longer a single forerunner in Austria, although I am firmly convinced – and also understand the opposition if she wishes – that our excellent Foreign Minister and hopefully future President Benita Ferreo-Waldner, who has a great deal of experience in solving and addressing difficult conflicts, would intervene here too. [[Abg. Brosz:... do not become polemic!]] Our foreign minister has already addressed many major conflicts during her OSCE Presidency in 2000 and has helped to develop and prepare viable solutions for them. Dr. In view of her excellent contacts with the UN, Ferrero-Waldner certainly also has a hearing at the UN in the conflicts of then – Armenia, Azerbaijan, Berg-Karabach, Central Asia and the Balkans – when she speaks on this issue within Europe and at the UN. For this, Mrs Bundesminister, thank you very much! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We want to support Kofi Annan, James Baker and Alvaro de Soto as mediators with the peace plan that is now being developed to bring the conflict to an end. The military mission has been extended until April; Austria has two soldiers. I believe that without the need for a requirement from the UN, which has not been the case so far, there can be no “human quotas” so easily provided if one does not know whether in the next future the conflict will actually be solved with these peace efforts. We are, as everywhere in the world, for the right of self-determination, even for that of the Sahauris. This is reflected in this motion for a resolution. I hope, above all, that the rest of the prisoners of war – more than 600 – will come into freedom as soon as possible. In this respect too, our Minister for Foreign Affairs, later on also as President, will work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e20816	The next item is the speech by Mr Scheibner. [[Contradict with the Greens.]] – My screen's gone, he hasn't worked properly for a few minutes. Next speaker is Mrs Lunacek? – You do not seem to be here, but you are cordially invited, Mrs Lunacek. You're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e20844	Even if your screen is gone, Mr President: I had a written list, that's how it stood. [[Abg. Arbitrator: The screen is still there, but the picture is not!]] I would like to say one more word on Mr Ledolter's comments before I deal with the real issue. As he mentioned in the previous debate my statement that I missed leadership on political issues with the Foreign Minister and that this was also said by the head of the UN development programme, Mark Malloch Brown, I must address this again. Mr Ledolter meant that the Consular Fees Act, which we have decided here today, proved Mrs Foreign Minister's leadership. – Mr Ledolter, I spoke about political initiatives – and not about a law that needs to be implemented in Austria anyway and which is now made a little earlier than the EU considers. There should be political initiatives, for example in the area of Western Sahara. At any rate, I am glad that it has been possible, after longer debates, to come to a joint motion for a resolution. It is about the last colony in the world. After East Timor has finally become independent, it is still about the Western Sahara. To you, Karin Hakl: It is not a conflict in Morocco, but the conflict is about a territory which has been under international law for almost 30 years. So the conflict does not exist in Morocco – that is the division of Morocco, it says its sovereignty is at risk – but it is an area which is under international law, for which hopes now exist after 30 years of real peace. The point we are putting into the motion for a resolution is that it is about supporting the efforts of Kofi Annan and James Baker as well as this peace plan. For the first time, it addresses three options for the further process: either independence or autonomy – all after a referendum – or the point of total integration in Morocco. It was the first time at the end of last year that the Polisario, i.e. the liberation movement, recognized this autonomy at all. Morocco has done the same before, but now it says no again. That is why we have found it useful to prepare here a resolution by the Austrian Parliament, namely that Morocco is now joining such an option with three variants to provide the necessary support here. Mr Prammer has already said that unfortunately, we have not succeeded in bringing all our points in. I am now wondering that Karin Hakl has said how important the two Austrian soldiers who are at the MINURSO, so there at the UN troupe. You're bringing it in now. But that is exactly the point where, unfortunately, we have not been able to convince the government groups that we should also stick to this in the motion for a resolution: That Austria offers the United Nations the opportunity for future military observers, police officers and civilian staff to be sent in case of need as soon as clear steps are visible in the implementation of the peace plan. This contradiction, first of all, to say how important the Austrian soldiers are at MINURSO, but then not to have in the motion for a resolution that we want to continue to offer this possibility to the UN, is a contradiction which I very much regret. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hakl]] In the Committee, Mrs Foreign Minister said: That doesn't mean we don't intend to do that. – I say this here in plenary, too, because I hope that this may be the case in the future. In any event, this is the reason why we reject the negative committee report from my group, but we will nevertheless vote in favour of the four-party proposal. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mrs Minister, I very much hope that you will actually become a political initiative in this area, such as those points I have mentioned to Morocco, and will be more active in the context of the EU than before, so that there will actually be success and peace for the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e20914	Mr Scheibner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e20933	Mr President. Mrs. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Klubobmann, the Western Sahara is probably an almost infinite story: for almost 30 years now, a boisterous, sometimes an open conflict. I have already said in committee that we are slowly losing hope that there will really be a viable peace solution. Often during the last ten, fifteen years, there have been dates for referendums. Especially the Austrian Federal Army, then still under Minister of Defense Fassleven, has already prepared for a greater commitment, Mrs Lunacek, to secure there a referendum, a referendum and the transition to independence. At the time, one has already purchased equipment and infrastructure. This device and infrastructure were used, but not in the Western Sahara, but in other uses such as Albania, Mozambique or Afghanistan. Unfortunately, it has not been possible to implement this project. We see that even the factual situation does not give a lot of cause for optimism. Only about 50,000 Sahauris live in the region of 700 000. A corresponding population policy of Morocco and also the occupation troops completely reversed the population structure and vice versa. 170 000 have been living in refugee camps for years, in part under very difficult circumstances. Now you have to consider: What future prospects a region has, has a country that has for so many years and decades had no tradition and no perspective and as many disappointed hopes as this population Did you have to take it? – Nevertheless, I also believe that hope must not, of course, be abandoned. It must also not happen that one forgets a conflict and fails the activities to reach a solution there – this danger exists too – because it is a dire conflict and because we do not have daily pictures of it on our television screens: of smoking machine guns, of bombing attacks, of terrorist threats, and perhaps we also feel threatened because there are any terrorist organizations that threaten to lead this fight in Europe. Then maybe the activity would be bigger. But that's exactly what must not happen: Liberation movements must not get the impression that they only attract attention by force, which is “necessary” – under quotation marks – to move the international community to enforce concrete and initiative-based peace movements. Mrs. Foreign Minister! I hope and I am convinced that you, the External Office, but also the European Union – this too is a region that can and should be important to the European Union – do everything in power to revive the problem of this shocking conflict, which unfortunately has become more and more forgotten, so that, at last, the population in this region does not have the prospect of living in independence, as far as possible, or that it is at least achieved – and perhaps before the 2008 deadline now foreseen – that the people can decide for themselves what future they want to choose for their country.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e20987	Mrs Ferrero-Waldner has spoken from the government bank. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e21005	Mr President. High house! First of all, I should like to say that I am pleased that there has been a joint four-party resolution request here, because it is the Western Sahara, although it is a conflict which is not on the agenda every day, but which has not been forgotten by us foreign politicians. [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] When I visited both Morocco and Algeria about a year ago, I also discussed this issue with the Moroccan Foreign Minister and King, but also with the Algerian Foreign Minister and President Bouteflika there, and I must tell you that there are not a lot of initiatives – initiatives on the part of the European Union, but above all on the part of the UN – but rather it is very, very difficult to find a real solution between Algeria and Morocco. At any rate, we share the view that the last plan that was prepared by Baker and discussed by the UN Secretary-General would be an optimal way to offer the people of theZaravian people this way to implement their claim for self-determination. We explicitly welcome the agreement of the Polisario on this proposal. However, we also know that Morocco is currently not in agreement with this proposal in this form, and you are right that no progress will be made at least before the Algerian presidential elections in April. Nevertheless, this question has to be addressed again and again. Another essential question, which links us totally, is how to continue to help the people of the Zaravians, above all in humanitarian terms. We have been supporting the Polisario refugee camp for many, many years, especially with the maintenance of basic municipal infrastructure projects and in the field of education. Special programmes in the field of education, technical infrastructure and capacity building have been continuously being operated and pursued by us since 1994. In the evaluation, we have found – that is, when the Austrian ambassador of Algiers was in the course of a local eye-catching at the Saharauis – that our kindergarten project, in which we have been particularly committed to improved education in kindergartens and which runs until 2007, is especially appreciated by the Saharauis themselves. A total of approximately € 640 000 are planned for the whole programme in refugee camps in 2003/2004. I say it is again a period of careful hope, but for us it is important that we do not abandon the people in the refugee camps. We're certainly not going to do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e21054	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Muttons. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e21072	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Today, after longer debates, we are discussing a four-party request to support this peace process in Western Sahara. As we have already heard, it is about a conflict that has been sleeping for decades and has brought a lot of suffering to the people of this region. After Spain had given up its colonies in the Western Sahara in the 1970s, Morocco claimed the area: very much against the resistance of the population and also the liberation front Polisario. The UN has been doing for decades now, one can say, trying to get the parties to a table. It is one of the oldest peacekeeping missions ever. Although an escalation of the conflict has so far been prevented, the conflict has not been resolved. Morocco still sees the desert region as an integral part of its territory. Although there are commitments by the Moroccan king to let Sahauri decide for himself in the context of a referendum, not only the date, but also the question of who is entitled to vote has always been controversial. As has already been mentioned today, the conditions between Sahauri and Moroccans in their country are not quite clear because of a massive immigration policy by Moroccans. Ladies and gentlemen! The current negotiations seem to be at a crucial stage. Former U.S. Foreign Minister and UN Special Representative James Baker speaks of the “last chance to end this conflict. He proposes to put the Western Sahara into a broad autonomy under Moroccan sovereignty, and then in 2008 to provide the opportunity to decide on the future in a referendum on the future, in various stages that he indicates. At present, however, this long-term political instability for this region means more than just a standstill. Fragile diplomatic relations which exist: are at risk, no democratic reforms can be implemented, but the humanitarian situation of many refugees is estimated to be particularly problematic – that has already been mentioned. There are about 150,000 Sahauri refugees who have been living in the desert in camps for almost three decades, poorly fed with food, with poor medical care. To survive, these people depend on external help. There are Austrian organisations such as the children’s friends, but also the Austrian-Sahaurian society among EU members Karin Scheele, who are very active in trying to support children in particular. It was found that the children in this area suffer chronic deficiency or are malnourished. Therefore, a sign should be given here in the Austrian Parliament, as has already been set out by other European Parliaments or the Council of Europe, that Austria, too, actively supports the UN in its efforts to resolve this conflict. However, further international support for reconstruction, demilitarisation, removal of the fissures and the demining of the region should also be sought. We should also stick to the resolution of the conflict, so that it can finally come to this referendum and the Western Sahara can look forward to a democratic and self-determined future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e21123	No one's been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We now proceed to the vote on the Committee's request to take note of its report 398 of the additions. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 398 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This has been adopted unanimously. (E 42.) The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2004-02-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e21175	I am still announcing that in today's session, autonomous applications 341/A to 352/A have been tabled. Question No 1484/J to 1513/J has also been received. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 26. February 2004, 9 a.m. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. This meeting is closed.
