ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the session of the 7th working week of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to pass on drafts and enquiries? Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U2	Good morning. I have the honour to refer the members of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia to the Minister of Culture of the Republic of Estonia. It is presented in connection with the exhibition "Aesthetics of Diversity" opened at Kumu Art Museum on 17 February. The organisers and curators of this exhibition have started to change the names of the museum's art works, which are historically fixed on them. In our opinion, changing the names of these works of art is not inherent in the cultural space of a free democratic Estonia. In fact, it is not inherent in any cultural space in a free society. In Estonia, this imitation of alien and over-idelogged campaigns is likened to repressive intervention by the occupying authorities in art life. In this context, we have five questions for the Minister of Culture, to which we ask an answer. An inquiry has also been sent electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U3	Thank you. Government representative Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U4	Good morning. Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu and good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is today initiating a draft law amending the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases and, in this connection, amending other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Health and Labour when the bill is being processed. Thank you. Everything's been delivered.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U5	Thanks, it's really been delivered. There is no further request for referral of drafts or enquiries. On behalf of the Management Board, I have adopted one draft and one inquiry, and the Management Board of the Riigikogu processes them in accordance with the procedure prescribed by law. Incoming check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U6	85 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 16.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U7	Let's go to today's agenda. We have one item on the agenda: the debate on the key national issue of action in the fight against corona virus, initiated by the Special Committee on State Budget Control. Before we go to this, I will briefly present to you the procedure for dealing with this item. First, Urmas Reinsalu, Chairman of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, will give a presentation for up to 15 minutes, followed by questions and answers for up to 30 minutes. Then there is the presentation of the Minister of Health and Labour Tanel Kiige for up to 15 minutes and the questions and answers also for up to 30 minutes. Thirdly, Krista Fischer, the academician of the Estonian Academy of Sciences, gave a presentation of up to 15 minutes and the time for asking questions is 30 minutes. Any member of the Riigikogu may ask any rapporteur one question, followed by negotiations. We ask that the representatives of the political groups take the floor first in the negotiations, and then the other members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to participate in the negotiations. Before we go to the agenda, Ivi Eenmaa is a procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U8	Thank you! But I couldn't sign in. I'm just saying I wanted to log in, but the computer didn't let me.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U9	Thank you. We're aware and we'll fix it. Now we can go to the agenda. I would ask the Chair of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, Urmas Reinsalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U10	Dear Members, The most important task of the Estonian state and the people is to reject the corona virus. Today, we are in a catastrophic state due to the explosive spread of the virus. In a few weeks Estonia has gained second place with its relative infection rate, both in Europe and worldwide. The representative population must discuss the situation in the fight against the Corona virus and give clear messages on what action the government is expected to take in the current critical situation. The key is the speed of decision-making, the effective control system and the intrepidity to take all appropriate measures to prevent the virus without delay. I would like to pay tribute to all the health-care frontline workers who, every day, reject the virus under increasing strain. The Heads of State, who have the authority to make decisions, have the responsibility to make decisions that help frontline workers to control the virus and save lives. The Special Committee on State Budget Control has conducted public hearings to assess measures to prevent the spread of the virus, the situation in vaccination and the development and implementation of new economic mitigation measures. The information identified and recorded by the Commission in the course of the hearings has substantial implications for the resolution of the crisis. It is not a question of finding the guilty, but of identifying possible problems. The question is how to take appropriate measures without delay and remove obstacles to resolving the crisis. But first, we need to be honest about why the situation has gotten out of hand in a short time. Today, I am going to give an overview of the key points raised during the hearings and of the Commission's positions. On 22 February the Commission heard Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, Minister of Health Tanel Kiige and expert professor of biology at the University of Tartu Andres Meritsa. I would remind you that on that day, the virus spread coefficient for 14 days was 794 for 100,000 people. The central question in the Commission's debate was what is the main indicative target set by the government in the context of the increasing spread of the virus. The Commission had at its disposal the proposals of the Scientific Advisory Board on 16 February. The Scientific Advisory Board centralised the government's objective of reducing the infection rate R to less than 0,9. According to the daily information, the rate of infection was R 1.2, and at this level the estimated number of people affected was expected to be around 1300 by 12 March, or tomorrow. In order to achieve this objective, to lower R, the Scientific Advisory Board on 16 February proposed, among other things, a ban on public events for the government, the establishment of a maximum number of all, including private gatherings, of up to six people, the limitation of the opening time of catering establishments, the closure of spas and water centres, the establishment of voluntary coronal hotels to avoid infecting family members. These proposals were not taken into account by the government. The evaluation by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas at the committee meeting was that the government's aim was to ensure the resilience of the medical system. The Prime Minister did not reply to whether the government assessed the impact of the selective restrictions of the scientific council previously put into effect on 18 February on the infection coefficient R. The Prime Minister could not answer when he found out that the infection coefficient R had reached 1,1. Tanel Kiik, Minister of Health, who attended the meeting, confirmed that he did not consider the restrictions imposed by the government to be sufficient and that the government had learned about the R movement of more than 1 on 26 January. According to the swing, the government was not aware of the prognostic impact of the decisions taken at the time of the decision on the coefficient of infection, but this information was expected later. Professor Merits stressed in his presentation that it is vital to ensure that the medical system is able to cope, but it is still about dealing with the consequences. The whole reason for the situation is, however, that the spread of the virus is high and that the causes and handling of the virus could be more clearly identified in parts. In his opinion, the antiviral measures should not be mitigated in a situation where the virus spread has stabilised. Stabilisation alone is not enough; the spread of the virus must be brought down. The Special Committee on State Budget Control took the view that the government should make the reduction of the infection coefficient as a central objective in the prevention of the virus, and stressed that the measures proposed by the Scientific Advisory Board should be implemented, which prognostically allow this to be achieved. The Commission also considered it important to develop compensatory measures for businesses without delay. On 22 February, the Special Committee on State Budget Control addressed the spread of the mutated virus in Estonia and the detection of its spread. By February 22, a small random sample survey showed at least 5% of the spread of the mutated virus in Estonia. The members of the Commission expressed concerns that no comprehensive population study has been carried out to detect the spread of the mutated virus in order to provide an adequate risk assessment in relation to the rapid spread of the mutated virus. The Minister of Health replied that Estonia had rather relied on the central system of the European Union in this investigation. He agreed that these studies could also be carried out in Estonia, but the cost is 1000 euros per sample. Members of the Commission were anxious to ask whether a general test requirement should be introduced at Estonia's borders in order to prevent the introduction of a mutated virus into the country. According to the Minister of Health, this is not the intention. Following the hearing, the Commission took the view that it was necessary to carry out a comprehensive, regular survey of the general population to detect the spread of the mutated virus. What happened next? On the following day, 23 February, the Scientific Advisory Board proposed that the government close down, inter alia, shopping centres and entertainment and cultural institutions. All entryees could be required to test for corona virus and limit the number of participants in all meetings to six persons. The government did not support these proposals. On 2 March, when the virus factor of 100000 per person had already increased by more than 1000, the Scientific Advisory Board proposed both the proposals made on 23 February and, in addition, the restoration of 2 + 2 rules in the field and the closure of catering establishments. The government did not support the proposals in this form at its meeting on 4 March. On March 8, Monday, when the coefficient was already above 1300, the government decided to impose additional restrictions that the scientific council had requested during weeks of explosive virus rise. There was then and there is still no restriction that only six people should be gathered, as well as the obligation to carry out general testing at borders to prevent the mutated virus. So we see that the anatomy of the current disaster was, unfortunately, step by step. If one day a measure was rejected, the result was that the Scientific Court proposed more stringent measures the following week. And that has been the case for weeks until more rigid rules have to be established than the experts originally proposed. The virus fire has evolved rapidly and continuously. The cost of such hesitant behaviour on society has been severe. Since the primary objective was not to reduce the spread of the virus, but was considered to be the main indicator of hospital congestion, since one inevitably results from another, the increasing spread of the virus could not be kept pace. Today we are facing a situation where there is a real risk of overcoming the critical mass of hospital overload. On 8 March, the Commission heard the Deputy Director-General of the Health Board and a member of the Board of the Health Insurance Fund in relation to the situation in the health system in order to get an overview of the situation. Deputy Director Mari-Anne Härma informed that the Director General of the Health Board issued an order to prepare the third level of health preparedness. In the current second level, the ambulance is given the right to reorganize work in order to reduce the quality of treatment. The ambulance also has the right to reject the challenges of a lower priority. Family doctors have the right to exclude screening and hospitals are instructed to prepare themselves for temporary triage, according to which scheduled treatment in hospitals will be suspended and only those in need of emergency care will be accepted. The health department's resource to identify the infected in the northern region was exhausted two weeks ago. The main objective of the Agency is still to identify all infected and close contacts, but if not all infected persons can be identified, they may not be informed of their close contacts. So far the eastern, southern and western regions have survived and have been able to identify the infected and close contacts, but there are already the first signs of difficulties there too. Speaking about the arrangements for vaccination, Mavi Parv, member of the board of the Health Insurance Fund, raised reporting issues. It is currently agreed to use the vaccination notifications available in the TECHNIQUE, but it would be necessary to interface them with the staff register data. This, however, requires certain changes to the law. In order for the vaccination process to be carried out, these data are currently combined as handicrafts and once a week. On Monday morning, vaccination notifications will be taken from the TEAC and linked to the register of insured persons available to the Health Insurance Fund and to the register of health professionals. From there, lists of frontier workers are sent to the Health Insurance Fund in order to compare the vaccination coverage. According to the board member of the Health Insurance Fund, reporting should certainly become faster and more detailed. The board member of the Health Insurance Fund also considers it necessary for people to be informed more quickly. Speaking about the HOIA app, the Deputy Director of the Health Board stated that HOIA is a joint project between the Health Board and the Ministry of Social Affairs TEHIC-u. Its parameters were changed to work and, as far as it is known, it was planned to turn this 2 metre perimeter into 10 meters a month ago, but it has not been done. The Deputy Director stated that the Health Board has been talking about overloading the health system all along, and the current situation cannot come as a surprise to anyone. Members of the Commission have examined whether testing in epicenter areas such as Maardu has been made more accessible to people and, if not, whether it is planned to do so. According to the representative of the Health Board, this has not been discussed with the contractor, as this change could obstruct the current testing system, but he promised that it would be put on the table for discussion. The Scientific Council has proposed that antigen tests should be used as rapid tests in schools. The members of the Commission examined whether, in a situation where it is not possible to test under normal circumstances for people without symptoms, a mass rapid test should be considered in epicenter areas. Mari-Anne Härma said that such mass tests require the availability of health care personnel, so this possibility of testing depends on how much medical staff we have. He promised that the increase in test capacity would be discussed with the contractual partners. Following these reviews, the Commission stated that our hospital network has reached a critical point. The Commission considers that there is an urgent need for legislative changes to ensure that vaccination is carried out smoothly. The HOIA application must also be improved so that it works more effectively. It is necessary to conduct ongoing national surveys of the rate of spread of the choronavir mutant strain in society in the general population. According to the information given to us, the vaccination rate for the 80+ age group is uneven across the country. The 32 lists had not started vaccination in this group as of Monday. The Commission took the view that vaccination should be started immediately on these lists. In addition, the Commission considered it important for the Health Board to consider introducing additional testing options in the epicenter areas of the virus. The government's proposed support measures to compensate companies for restrictions were briefed by the Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus. He briefed the Commission on the use and procedures of last year's mitigation measures and informed the committee that KredEx was most affected by last week's decision on transferable funds. The KredEx loan and surety measure of EUR 180 million can also be introduced this year. Last week, the government remained open on how to move forward with the acquisition of shares. Last week's decision was that initially EUR 300 million will be left in reserve in KredEx and the Minister of Enterprise will come to the government in the coming weeks with a proposal for the exact design of measures. It was also decided last week to extend the reconstruction measure for buildings. In addition, the deadline for unused funds was extended to that year at the Rural Development Foundation. Raol Lättemäe, of the Ministry of Finance, presented an analysis of the impact of last year's support measures, on the basis of which it could be concluded in macroeconomic terms that the business support measures implemented last year have served their purpose and are a good basis for planning measures this year as well. The Commission has extensive information about the various authorities at its disposal and I would like to emphasise that it is certainly available to all members of the Riigikogu if necessary. To conclude: urgent action is needed. Work needs to be done to address the problem of infection, improve the logistical arrangements for vaccination, enforce the mitigation measures of the economic crisis and establish an exit plan. Effective governance and setting the right target are the most important in the current national crisis. As the quality of decision-making deepened, my assessment is that, first and foremost, in order to establish more effective governance, a state of emergency must be declared. The current model of decision-making has shown that it does not allow the necessary operational action at a more serious stage of the crisis, and its cost is borne by the entire Estonian society. Thank you. I'm ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U11	Thank you. Indeed, there are many questions. Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U12	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Urmas! I'm gonna start with the end of your report... about the announcement of an emergency situation and the strange attitude of the Prime Minister to it. We are used to the fact that the head of the government, let us say, is very creative. For example, there is no need to impose any additional restrictions, as the virus spreads at home so that there are some kind of outbreaks of the virus in Estonian families and they come to society. Or an example from yesterday: there is no need to shut down the country because the virus is spreading within the country, and there is no need for an emergency situation, as all the necessary restrictions can already be imposed. But when we were talking about shutting down the country, especially the cancellation of charter flights to viral outbreaks, it was said that they could not be cancelled, because it would require an emergency situation. So, the emergency situation cannot... (President: "Please ask a question!") ... That was the question. What would a state of emergency do?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U13	Thank you. Indeed, if we look at the current situation, we will see that the government has not implemented the principle of total testing. This is what is needed to prevent mutated viruses from reaching Estonia. I would point out that there is not only a British strain but also a South American strain, but there is an African strain that is constantly mutating. This measure has been introduced by most European countries, from our region Sweden, Latvia, Lithuania, Germany, France. These countries have taken up the defence of their own people, their own countries. And these effective measures have also been recommended by the Scientific Advisory Board, thanks to our better know-how. We have not adopted it. As far as the emergency situation is concerned, I think that the resolution of such a complex crisis starts with an assessment of how serious the crisis is. The state of emergency is nothing out of constitutionality. This is the legitimate way to change the model of governance in the most critical situation. And the opposition to the imposition of an emergency situation, according to my understanding, actually shows that the crisis is not being assessed seriously enough. Based on the actual figures we have at our disposal, we can say that this is the most serious moment in the spread of the corona virus that our people are now facing. And it requires that the effective measures that we have at our disposal be implemented. It's completely constitutional. What does imposing an emergency situation on the Prime Minister, if he is appointed centrally responsible as head of the government, mean? On the one hand, it gives him a very specific responsibility, a monopoly responsibility for resolving the crisis. On the other hand, as a counterbalance, the Prime Minister is given the authority to resolve all issues in the country by imposing obligations on all authorities, including local authorities. Let me give you an example of the possibility of an emergency situation. Surely we can also consider the use of the Defence Forces medical system for vaccination. And in the event of an emergency, many other people who can be used to administer vaccination can be employed, if necessary. This is one technical example.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U14	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Good Urmas! There really is, I would say, a total corona crisis here in Estonia because of the failure of governments. Here's my question. In September last year, when the first increase in infection occurred in Ida-Virumaa, the Social Democrats asked for the first days of sickness to be resolved. The Health Board confirmed that in Ida-Virumaa the korona is spreading in large groups, because people working sick cannot afford to stay home. That's where it all started. At that time, the government waited until December, allowing the infection rate to rise tenfold or even more. Then why didn't you change the sickness compensation system? The new regime only entered into force on 1 January.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U16	Thank you. In this crisis, I think we need to learn from the lessons learned and look to the future. It must be said, Kalvi, and I do not hesitate to say that the experience I have gained from this crisis is that if you hesitate to decide, you will lose time. And you won't get your time back. So time is the most critical resource in resolving the crisis. Looking back, I agree that measures should certainly have been implemented at a faster pace. There is no doubt about this, now that the situation is evolving. But it's not about looking for the guilty right now. The question is that we must be able to draw relevant conclusions on how it has happened that we have reached a catastrophic spread of the virus in a few weeks. If we can draw any conclusions, and if certain positions are reached in the open debate in the national representation, then it is possible to correct the measures at the highest level of national governance. The situation is at this stage where we need to implement a special management system. And we certainly need to focus all our power and resources on the unconditional implementation of the measures that we have at our disposal. Once again, I stress that this year's most critical situation is at hand. We are all tired of the virus, but we must be able to assess the situation correctly. Last spring, the numbers were smaller, but then the situation was different in the sense that we were faced with an unknown. We didn't know what was going to happen, what was the mortality, what the risks were, what the virus was spreading. At present, we have much more management information at our disposal and, in this context, it is irresponsible not to take decisions that need to be taken without delay.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U17	George Luik, please! George Luik, I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U18	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! I'd like to ask you a question. I myself support the launch of an emergency situation, because the law is quite clear in this respect: it will be triggered in the event of a natural disaster, disaster or the spread of infectious diseases. It is quite clear that this current situation is unambiguously consistent with the definition of the epidemiological situation. Mr Reinsalu, what do you think are the reasons why there is so much opposition to declaring an emergency situation? I personally cannot understand these reasons.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U19	When the Prime Minister appeared before the Special Committee on State Budget Control on 22 February, he said that there is no point in blaming and that, in this case, the coefficient of infection has still led to the decisions taken by the previous government. I think there is certainly a political consideration behind this, just as it was a political consideration to be popular on 26 January, when the government already had information on the R movement over 1, but still did not make any decisions to alleviate the situation. However, I think that, in the current situation, we need to put this aside, we need to put aside political considerations. The Estonian people expect us to act. The whole of the country, the parliament, the government, all the people who go to work every morning or are in their homes, both young and old, expect public authorities to act. You see, on the one hand, it is certainly important to put the emphasis on human responsibility. The people of Estonia have done well; they have also put themselves together at this most serious stage of the crisis, which is difficult, we know, to survive both psychologically and economically and socially. However, in this type of major crisis there is a function that a citizen's own endurance cannot replace, and that is leadership. It is not possible to make leadership bottom-up when a crisis needs to be resolved. This is actually what we need to implement in advance a special procedure, a model of governance. Unfortunately, I have to admit that this hesitant side of the line of decision during these weeks, I have read to you examples where, next week, the proposals of the Scientific Advisory Board rejected last week had undoubtedly been raised by fire. It's a reality.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U20	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U21	Good manager! Honourable waitress! Last spring, border control was quickly established and border action was then very effective. The picture that's now opening is question marks. On the southern border, the Estonian side is not moving at all. I do not fully understand the Prime Minister's argument that Latvia has lower corona indicators. In my opinion, it is still necessary to establish itself at the borders, because these Latvian figures are not so low now. And I am also thinking more generally about testing and quarantine requirements for arrivals across borders. It is recalled that Ida-Viru County was one of the first regions with high tides, from which it also moved towards Russia. How do you think border control has succeeded in recent months?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U22	The current reality shows that, in these weeks, we have indeed become one of the epicenter regions of the virus in Europe, at least by statistical means. It's a reality. As regards the various control measures, the evidence-based control measures that prevent the spread of the virus in Estonia, my assessment is clear and clear. We must apply all of them, there can be no hesitation here if it is necessary on the basis of evidence. What's important? Already at the end of December last year, the European Centre for communicable diseases announced its view that measures to prevent mutated forms of virus should be implemented in such a way that the mutated virus is a new virus. We have to rely on being prepared to build two-storey restrictions. As regards the total testing that European countries have used, they have done so because people carrying the virus cannot come to one country or another to move freely and spread the virus that is spreading faster. If we ask whether our country has the capacity to re-apply border control, this capability is technically there. There's no question about that. I believe that it is indeed essential to build a comprehensive filter at the borders, which is about testing. This is a primary task, and so have other European countries. It has been said that since one mutated virus strain is already spreading extensively in Estonia, we should no longer apply this measure. I don't think that's a reasonable angle of approach. It doesn't make sense to say that we're already late. The crisis starts again every day, every morning starts again and all decisions must be taken again. And if, at some point, there was a delay and, therefore, there is no desire to change their rhetoric, it will not help in any way to solve the crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U23	Tarmo Kruusimäe, is this a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U24	Good vice chairman! I would like to point out that we have set some standards for the remote hearing, for example, that the questioner should be in the picture or, if not, that there is a photograph of him. But we have another dark screen. I realize it got out of hand last night, and I pointed it out. But it could be at least a day, so we wouldn't have three different options: one is such a sigmigrisic black picture, then there's a photo and then there's a person on the screen. I would also like to emphasise this to the questioners. Perhaps technical support can help in some way and if the webcam is not in front of the picture, we will use the photo.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U25	Thank you. I hope that all the members of the Riigikogu have listened to this request, but I will repeat as chairman. Indeed, there is a prayer, and we have said it many times: if it is possible, it would be very good if we also see the person asking in real time. It's a request. It's not so well regulated at home and running, but we have such a request. Unfortunately, it works very differently for members of the Riigikogu. In the future, we will probably have to complement the part of home and working teleworking so that everyone can understand in the same way and we will all implement teleworking in the same way. But now there is a request: if possible, we will follow this proposal. Let's move on. Anti-Semiamets, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U26	I want to make it clear that, of course, it is very good to be in the picture, but one of the reasons why yesterday there were many interruptions, I myself had problems, is probably that rural areas are not such a good connection. And if you see it on the screen, you might lose more connection. So there's probably just one way to put it in the photo.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U27	Thank you. Let's get on with the questions. I'll add 30 minutes to that time, so the answer time won't be lost. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U28	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress, when we looked at yesterday's shopping orgy at the shopping malls, it reminded me of Sportland's phobia a year ago. It was all actually foreseen. Here's my question. We know that there is a phase of denial in every crisis. Does the Prime Minister deny that it is worth learning from the mistakes of the previous government, or does he deny that he is the head of the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U29	I would not want to criticise the Prime Minister, whose shoulders have a central responsibility in the so-called personal key. But what I want to say is that as far as the so-called central management handwriting is concerned at the highest level of executive power, I see significant fundamental differences in the way the previous head of government acted at the beginning of the crisis. And the question is not that we must necessarily be able to foresee the consequences of any decision when we are faced with an unknown. But the situation is different when we have available scientific and evidence-based management information that says that if you don't make any decisions, that's what's gonna happen. It is, unfortunately, the reality that, during the first crisis phase, we did not have this information at our disposal. Tomorrow will come about the announcement of the year's emergency situation, and now we can say that we have this information. And it is not appropriate, to put it mildly, to refrain from making decisions or making them in slices. Today, Professor Fischer will present a presentation on the prognostic perspective of controlling the infection coefficient in the current situation. However, it is a fact that the scientific council's analysis of mortality, hospital loads and virus circulation, assuming that the rate of infection remains the same, has been available to the government every week in the last month. There has been a complete management desk to understand the cost of making a decision and the cost of not making a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U30	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U31	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! To our great sadness, we must see every day the government's very leaping action, or even the inaction, or, in other words, stopping. If we look at what is happening towards the Riigikogu, there is actually no communication between the government and the Riigikogu. We worked for a week to inform the members of the Riigikogu in front of the Prime Minister's large hall. After that, he sent a letter to the political groups saying that he would actually prefer to meet the body of elders instead and asked for proposals for a meeting two hours later on the same day. So far, we hear every day accusations against the previous government, though, about the current opposition. And the information that the members of the Riigikogu will now receive after a great demand is classified in the form of information. So we can't discuss it anywhere. How do you assess the Government's communication capacity and willingness to actually cooperate with the Riigikogu? Is there a wish to overcome this really very, very crazy crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U32	Thank you. I think that there is room for improvement when it comes to strengthening dialogue. And it is not a question of this dialogue that Parliament sometimes likes to ask uncomfortable and painful questions. And this right is what Parliament is obliged to ask such questions. There is no alternative to such dialogue in a parliamentary country. At the same time, I believe that there is a great deal of this sense of austerity for the whole people, including Members of Parliament. It is the feeling that no matter what political line our world-viewed preferences are going, we will stick together. Right now, at a critical moment, we need to converge. And Parliament's feedback actually supports the government in resolving the crisis. It is known that in reality there is a strong shared platform and that there is also an assessment of the situation. But I think one major problem that has occurred in the last month concerns communication with the public, with the people. It must be acknowledged that, at the highest level of crisis management, there is, in fact, a signal that restrictions are seeming. And if the restrictions are apparent, it will undoubtedly have a negative effect on compliance with the restrictions as well. There's a lot of appearances in the restrictions. Or, in fact, the message about imposing further restrictions that the lock must be held. On the contrary, my understanding is that it is the animals that do not comply with the restrictions, but people obey the rules and comply with the restrictions. This is a completely perverse thought when the Prime Minister said: "The lock must be created." No, you don't! Civilized people, reasonable people, when rule 2 + 2 and other rules are in place, usually adhere to them and follow them. On these issues, I believe, the most important thing right now is serious communication that calls for vigilance, signalling the whole society's sense of danger. There is no alternative to this in my opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U33	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U34	Thank you, Mr President. Good Urmas! It seems to me that the Estonian people are not waiting for an endless description of the problem, but also for solutions from the parliament. And one instrument in this toolbox is an emergency. My question to you is that the emergency is certainly not an end in itself, but an instrument. Why don't you show us a little bit about these possibilities: if the emergency were announced, what would it give to the Estonian people? Our role is to protect our citizens and protect them at strategic, operational and communication levels. Could this instrument improve the situation for Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U35	Thank you. It was precisely the Commission that has been working on identifying practical issues since, as I said, the integration of IT systems, the availability of testing facilities and so on and so forth. In the current situation, as I said, there is no more important question. I think that all the committees in Parliament should now be discussing the issue of the control of the corona virus in their own field. I believe it is also a good initiative for the body of elders to gather. Today's debate would be the first starting point for the political groups to put forward concrete proposals that can be discussed by the Council of Elders together with the Prime Minister. I think it's inevitable. Otherwise, we withdraw from our duty as members of the National Council. Now the question of declaring an emergency situation. You see, there are two most important factors in resolving the crisis. Firstly, what is the objective, which strategic objective we have in mind? In my presentation, I stressed that the Scientific Advisory Panel set a clear strategic indicator objective: the coefficient of infection must be brought down to 0.9. However, the Prime Minister's assessment was that the central objective was to avoid the congestion of the hospital system. But we finally saw that it wasn't enough. This was already a goal of consequence. In fact, the goal must be more aggressive. The aim must not be that the current level of spread of the virus persists, but that we must bring the spread of the virus to a decline. As Professor Merits pointed out in his presentation. Another factor alongside the objective is, of course, leadership. If you have an objective and if you have the willingness to use the evidence-based set of measures necessary to achieve the objective, then there must be a management method to do so. Unfortunately, over the last month, there has been a type of management method in place for the implementation of the measures, which is not enough to address the crisis. That is the unambiguous answer. If we look at this virus explosion, this virus-induced chaos, we can conclude that it's not the right control model. I would argue that all practice, which is a criterion of truth, has shown that we need a different, more operational model of governance. And this governance model is embodied in the Emergency Act, which provides for a single liability. Somewhere in the media yesterday, it was criticised that the Prime Minister should deal with all the details. Of course not! Just as in a war situation, the command will prepare materials for the Commander-in-Chief of the Defence Forces and sign specific decisions and plans, so, of course, this will also happen under emergency conditions. The important thing is that we don't lose time. Time is the most critical now and we have already lost time. But as I said, the crisis is recreating itself every day in the morning, and now we have to assume that we are at this zero point and we have to move on from there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U36	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U37	(Unintelligible text due to poor internet connection.) ...and I'm taking it back now, looking, putting it in the mail.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U38	Yeah, I understand you're taking the question back now and registering again, aren't you?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U39	[[I don't understand the text.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U40	I don't get it. Well, it looks like a connection problem. Let's keep going. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U41	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress Urmas! You said you saw significant differences in government handwriting. I, on the other hand, see a pattern that is very similar, including the fact that the new strains are like hiding their heads in the sand. We know that already on 20 December, the European Centre for Anti-Infection (ECDC) carried out a risk assessment that countries should sequestrate new mutant strains simply to obtain a sufficient advance warning of time and, if they start to spread more quickly, this information could be used to impose restrictions. Please recall whether the previous government addressed the need for such systematic monitoring or whether this issue was not considered important in December and early January.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U42	Thank you. I specifically compared the leadership handwriting of the heads of government. But I clearly remember that while Boris Johnson made a statement on this Saturday before Christmas, on Sunday we had a telephone meeting with government chief ministers and we took a decision on Sunday evening, you may remember to close scheduled flights from the UK. And secondly, we have established a rule that a compulsory corona test and a subsequent quarantine are actually necessary. We were faced with ignorance. The British have offered us this discussion format, Mrs Lutsar participated by Estonia, so that the representatives of the countries also received their information. But there were undoubtedly a lot of question marks. We faced a lack of knowledge, and the government allocated money to this KoroSero-EST survey. According to my memory, it was in December or early January, it can be specified. As far as the potential risk of this mutated virus is concerned, there were not, in fact, enough scientific articles on it. This question was on the table of the previous government and, in fact, has been on the table of the current government. But the latest numbers, which have been made clear in various studies, undoubtedly show a accelerating progression. However, the fact is that the knowledge that the proportion of this virus is 5.6% - one sample study that identified it - was already known on 22 February. It has not come now as news that the mutated virus is very common in the population of the Estonian territory. It wasn't news this week for decision-makers or experts.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U43	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U44	Thank you, Mr President. Urmas, as an effective management tool, the emergency situation naturally creates such a very specific and clear governance structure, as well as a very clear leader of the emergency situation. Do you think Prime Minister Kallas can avoid imposing an emergency situation because he might lose control of the government? What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U45	I don't want to speculate about that. The Prime Minister has confirmed that in the case of a collegial governance model, the government will be able to make all the necessary decisions. However, as I have brought these selective decisions for weeks, we have, unfortunately, seen that this ability has been limited. As the Minister of Health and Labour admitted at the meeting on 22 February, completely in cold blood said, these are not enough restrictions. These are not enough restrictions! In a situation where we are faced with such an explosion of growth every week and day, the numbers are moving up and down, we have to say that it must be the central responsibility of the head of the state's executive power. In the most serious phase of the crisis, where we are currently with the coronavir, I do not see either an alternative to this under national law or an alternative to governance. And to say that we have the same situation as the special situation, well, we do not have an emergency situation. I quote that Prime Minister's line of reasoning a little distortedly, but it all gives the impression of a state-law mixer. If there is a clear set of measures that the state can put in place for a limited period of time, this must be done precisely for the sake of clarity of the rule of law. Not that we say we have the same situation if we do not have the same situation. There is no doubt that there will be very extensive restrictions on people's fundamental rights, and it is therefore extremely important that there is also a clear, understandable, unambiguous legal regime, as well as the definition of extraordinary competences, as well as responsibility in this situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U46	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U47	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! We have two of the most important problems in this coronal state, in my opinion: message and legal clarity. Today, the government gave a new version of NETS to the Riigikogu proceedings. It was only in November that we passed this law, and the former Chancellor of Justice contested whether it was legitimate. We had the conviction that this was a legitimate bill. Today, I understand we're going to process a new bill and sanction people, but I don't think we're going to explain why. This morning, I got a call from one of the former Justice Ministers. He also said that in reality people were not explained what to do at some point. The propaganda side is weak. And, for example, do you remember from the time of the previous government the role that public national broadcasting plays in this matter? Have they tried to explain how to wear masks, why wear masks, when a person has become close contact with what he has to do if there is a positive result of the virus, what to do then? And so on and so forth.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U48	I think that there is one decisive factor in the crisis, especially when the crisis is of such a nature that it requires a change in behaviour throughout society, behaviour that is not inherent in the nature of a person: distance must be maintained and socialism must be very little. And there is no alternative to good communication. I wouldn't use the word "propaganda." The most important thing is that we get as precise a view as possible of what the forecasts are, and what the real reality is of the dangers that threaten us in the face of one or the other behavioural attitude of society. I think this certainly does not mean any kind of panic for our people. No! But it is extremely important that these forecasts are in our hands openly. And that is why the Special Committee on State Budget Control has considered it necessary to ask the Scientific Advisory Panel for a comprehensive analysis and I briefly referred to them. And that information must also be given to the public. It is undoubtedly a question of which measures are most effective and which are not effective. There has been controversy about this in society, and it is in no way unique to Estonia. This debate has been universal in all countries, which measures work better and how people can behave safely. I believe that national broadcasting here has done its job maturely, responsibly. And not only national broadcasting, but all media outlets who have also called on the government to make decisions. Make decisions, don't lose time! I think it has been responsible, precisely from the point of view that in the crisis we are still facing a very vague future. We must come out of this crisis together and do so in such a way that we do not lose unnecessary time. Because if we lose time in vain with stretching and hesitating decisions, we will see that the way forward will cost society much more.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U49	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, The time to ask questions to the first waitress is, unfortunately, over. We're moving on to the agenda. Thank you, Urmas! Valdo Randpere, is it a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U50	It was, but now you turned it down. In fact, Reinsalu's time ran out about five minutes ago. I was wondering if any rules had been changed, and perhaps we could put our question in line and ask Reinsalu for the recipe. But look, now he's gone. That's too bad!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U51	Thank you. No, the rules have not been changed. I said I would add to the time for answering questions the time needed for procedural questions. There were several procedural questions. That's how we've tried to do it with other performers on previous occasions. Otherwise, it is possible to spend all the time asking substantive questions with procedural questions. But let's keep going. Today's second waitress is the Minister of Health and Labour, Tanel Kiik. To the speaker's desk, please. Report time is 15 minutes. What about the slides? We have technical problems, slides don't move. I'll take the chairman's break five minutes and try to find a technical solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U52	Ladies and gentlemen, Break taken by the manager is over. Looks like our technical problems have been solved. So we can continue. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U53	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, I would like to thank the Riigikogu for the opportunity here today to give an overview of the situation in COVID-19 and I congratulate the Special Committee on the control of the state budget for this initiative. Indeed, it makes perfect sense to focus on the issues of the crisis in COVID-19 in Parliament. I'll start with the latest numbers right now. A new 24-hour record was made this morning, and more specifically, we're talking about yesterday's tests. 2,000 positive tests have been added, which raises our two-week infection rate to 1453 levels, or higher than it's ever been before. In the last seven days, a total of just over 10,000 positive tests have been added, which is the highest in the seven-day view. At the moment, we are still on the growth trend, but later I will also show you this growth trend is slowing down from the slide. Our aim, of course, is to turn this growth into a decline. Vaccinations were given in 6520 days. A total of nearly 162000 vaccinations have been carried out and almost 114000 Estonian residents have received a protective injection at least once. This is the situation this morning, of course, during the day this number will grow. When we talk about an increase in cases for weeks, we can see that when the second wave began in autumn, there were weeks of very rapid growth, but at one point, it can be said that at the beginning of winter, we reached a plateau where the infection rate changed minimally in a few weeks. At the end of the year, the change was a few percent or even zero. And because of the major Christmas restrictions, there were also weeks where the infection rate fell. Overall, after a few weeks, there was a stable period or a small increase, but in the last few weeks of February there was an ever-increasing increase, and at the beginning of March there are obviously too many numbers for the number of infected. The average figures for this week are not yet known, but it is expected that they will, unfortunately, continue to show an upward trend. The aim is for the numbers to fall from the second half of March onwards. Estonia has a wide spread across the country, there is no question at all. We see a very large increase in Harjumaa and Lääne-Virumaa. Although growth in Saaremaa has slowed somewhat, it has actually been the fastest in the long term, and the infection rate in Saaremaa is currently at the top of Estonia. In fact, disease in the area has been on a growth trend for six weeks in a row. As far as urban districts are concerned, of course, areas with a more dense population are particularly affected. The exceptions really are Saaremaa and Anija, which show that the virus can spread to a very large extent even in areas where this would not be expected by population density. According to the latest information from the Health Board, the incidence of infection in Estonia has fallen to 1.07. Here, however, you should not be misled by a small number, as it still indicates a 7% increase during this cycle of infection, i.e. within 5 to 7 days. And Professor Krista Ficher's assessment of the last conversation with her was that the rate of infection was about 1.1. So we're seeing a lower rate of climb, but it's not a drop yet. It must not be included in this particular schedule either. The decline comes when we go below this red line, or down 1. So far, unfortunately, we have not been able to do this throughout February and March. I think that, from the point of view of the spread of the virus, both the increase in the perception of the people themselves and the restrictions that have been introduced gradually in February have contributed. However, it can be said that the decisive impetus and confidence that the infection rate will go below 1, gave those last decisions, with which we have also sent the primary classes to distance training, shut down commerce, with the exception of grocery stores, pharmacies and such shops where medical devices are sold. We have also very clearly restricted all kinds of recreational education, indoor sports and catering establishments to the right of co-sale only. These decisions, according to both me and the members of the scientific council, give quite a firm conviction that the infection rate is going below 1 and in the second half of March we are going to see the weekly decrease in the number of infections. There can certainly be days when this rise will continue, as usual, here too, no definitive conclusions can be drawn from one day. But the seven-day average, which we most closely monitor, is imperative to get a downward trend. In addition, we have signalled to the population that the risk of infection is naturally higher indoors. At the same time, it must be borne in mind that there is this risk outside. Even so, it makes sense to comply with 2 + 2 rules, move by two and keep distance as was the case last spring during an emergency situation. The exception is, of course, families who must be able to spend time together this time. The other half of the COVID-19 crisis has always been how to support people who are in difficulties. We have launched an extension of the necessary remuneration. This is paid primarily to those companies that are most affected by the restrictions. We have agreed on an EMTAK code-based allocation. I'm not going to read these numbers, they've been released, and you can get to know them from the slides. But it is very important that if we impose any restrictions on certain sectors, sectors of the economy, we will ensure that the income of those working in this area is not reduced and their employment is not reduced. Of course, both needs to be looked at on a regular basis in the event of the crisis: the hospital's medical burden, the rates of infection, the coverage of vaccination, and the labour market indicators. We know that the number of unemployed has increased to nearly 60,000 in 12 months, and we know that the upward trend remains. It is certainly important to mitigate this by means of state measures. We are also talking about the creation of an additional budget, which was also under discussion in the government office this morning. It is important to add resources to health care, as testing volumes have increased. It's shown by the weekly numbers. Today, more than 9400 tests were carried out in 24 hours. This volume could not be foreseen when preparing the budget for 2021 or when making REACT-EU applications. Similarly, the supply of vaccines also needs to be refocused on a growing resource, as a number of additional agreements provide an opportunity to increase the supply of vaccines. Recently, we applied for an additional 660000 doses of Pfizer/BionTech, which costs a considerable amount. Further, the amount of sickness benefits has increased. We have initiated a draft which was also handed over to Parliament today to extend the current arrangements for the payment of sickness benefits until the end of the year, starting on the second day. Workers, as well as employers, must have the confidence that people who are in close contact or otherwise self-insulation will receive compensation if necessary. Of course, it is important to support health professionals. In the area of health care, the insane amount of overtime in this crisis is very good, professional work. When we look at hospital care indicators, including mortality figures, we see that they are low in Estonia compared to many countries. Here, the sensible behaviour of the population, preparations made in spring-summer, the addition of personal protective equipment and the improvement of testing capacity, the development of COVID-19 plans for hospitals, the very good cooperation between the medical staff of the North and South region. In addition, in the area of health care, it is important to have more resources to hire staff to assist doctors-sisters and other health professionals working in the COVID-19 departments. Here I take this opportunity to acknowledge the rector of the University of Tartu and the dean of the medical sciences, as well as the rector of both Tallinn and Tartu University of Health, who has come very well with our request to find additional resources in the form of students, they are then the fifth-sixth course in medical science or nieces in training in recent years. They can contribute specifically to the COVID-19 departments and other hospital care, and their support has actually been visible during this crisis, in Narva during the crisis in Ida-Viru County when additional staff was needed, or it is more generally both in scheduled treatment and in the treatment of COVID-19 patients. In addition to health support, it is certainly important to support the labour market with an additional budget. We know that the restrictions will apply longer than they have been agreed at the moment to support them. This is an issue that we are discussing both when we draw up an additional budget and at another meeting of the Unemployment Insurance Board tomorrow. In any case, the unemployment fund's reserve must be increased so that we have the capacity to support those people and those sectors that are more hit. Maintaining and supporting people's employment more broadly is, in any case, essential in the context of an additional budget. Two words about vaccines. I'm trying to fit it in 15 minutes with all the themes, it's a difficult challenge. Estonia has valid contracts for the purchase of vaccines, which provide an opportunity to purchase nearly 4.6 million doses. As I pointed out earlier, we are applying for an additional 660000 doses of Pfizer/BioNTech. This is not presently in this table because there is no confirmation of this, but the government has confirmed the willingness to make a decision in principle and to allocate funds. So in reality, these numbers are going to grow. In the case of other vaccines which are authorised in succession, additional doses may also be available. And that's when we're going to get to the country. Today, it makes no sense for us to buy doses that are beginning to reach Estonia in the second half of the year, also at the end of the year, but above all those for which deliveries are starting already in the second quarter. This confirmation is given for Pfizer/BioNTech. This is also the reason why we have increased the original additional contract volumes. Now, from the delivery of vaccines this semester, once again, an important issue. We can see that there has been a very clear upward trend. Less vaccines came together in all winter months than alone in March. This week the supply of vaccine has already been remarkably high: 52000 doses of vaccine, or even somewhat more, have reached or are reaching Estonia. In the next few weeks, we will talk about at least 30000 and hopefully the end of March will return to the equivalent of 50000+ doses. Of course, it is always important to make sure that a specific supply has been put on the road, as there have been many changes to these graphs. In the second quarter, we're talking about a total of 800,000 doses of vaccine. Given the decisions of yesterday's National Committee on Experts in Immunoprophylaxis, this means that we will in any case be able to ensure that at least one dose of vaccine is given over the second quarter to all residents who wish to do so and to focus more and more on providing second-dose protection during the summer months. A quick overview of the figures also across risk groups. Health care professionals and care workers are mainly vaccinated, and we deal with risk groups. Of the 80+ age group, 30% have been vaccinated, so let's move on from here. If we look at providers of various vital services, workers at higher risk of infection in the education sector, in the field of internal security, in the social field, then vaccination has been carried out and in some areas has already been successfully completed. In the spring months, we will also continue to vaccinate other people belonging to the group of frontier workers. As I have said before, this objective remains in force so that, from May onwards, this opportunity will be open to all. As I have pointed out, the current volumes of supply of vaccines allow us to set rather optimism targets. Of course, we have to wait for the final confirmed dates, the confirmed numbers. [[Show slides.]] As you can see from this graph, for a specific month, only the April deliveries of Pfizer are known today. They have not yet been confirmed by Moderna and AstraZeneca and Janssen Pharmaceutica NV, which is currently waiting for a marketing authorisation, is not yet in the same way. All these April figures give us the opportunity to plan more closely with vaccination of both risk groups and frontline workers. Quickly for information on how many people have been vaccinated in Estonia. At present, approximately 8.6% of the population have been vaccinated at least one dose. About 5% of them have received one dose and 3.6% have received two doses of vaccine, i.e. full protection. With this figure, we are in the fifth to sixth place in the European Union. Certainly in European terms we can say that we have been fast, but in global terms, of course, the whole of the European Union has inevitably been among the averages. There have been countries that have acted significantly faster, but there have also been countries that have not yet begun vaccination. We certainly hope that, together with the volume of supplies in the European Union, the coverage of vaccination will also increase. Here's a comparison of how many doses of vaccine per capita have been used. I've shown this slide before, and now it's changed a little bit again. In this particular schedule, Estonia is sixth in place. Malta, which has received somewhat more vaccines, has been the fastest, and some countries, such as Hungary, have obtained additional vaccines in addition to the European Union's procurement. In general, the European Union average is slightly more than 10 or 15% behind Estonia. That's how I finish my report. I am happy to focus on answering questions, as the members of the Riigikogu certainly have them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U54	Thank you. Members of the Riigikogu have questions. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U55	Thank you for the floor. Minister, thank you very much for this presentation and sincerely for your strength. As Minister of Health, you are directly responsible for the health of all of us at this difficult time. And you could say, not just for the way we live, but for whether we live. So, sincerely for strength! My question is what the decision-making mechanism of the government is. In recent weeks, you yourself have repeatedly said that the restrictions imposed have not been sufficient. You will see that the rules should be tightened up considerably. And for weeks, scientists demanded that the government decide. It all took a very long time before decisions were made. The same thing actually happened in the fall. On 5 November, the scientific council predicted that we would be in very bad shape for Christmas. It took a month before the government came to some important agreements and new rules. What is there in this system that can be done better so that the word of the Minister of Health and the advice of the Scientific Advisory Board in such situations pay and all this works within a reasonable period of time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U56	Thank you for your question and thank you for your good wishes. During this whole crisis, Estonia has been constantly seeking a balance for these 12 months. We have wanted to keep society open. Our children have been significantly more in contact education than in many countries, especially in the Baltic region, but also in Europe as a whole. Our companies have been able to move and operate more freely, as well as cultural institutions. This search for balance has undoubtedly made it more difficult to impose strict restrictions. If we had only aimed at suppressing the spread of the virus, then, of course, very strict measures could have been introduced in November or already in the autumn. But at the same time, our goal was to keep society as open as possible. And in the main, we have achieved this in 12 months' view, I dare say. It is true, however, that the openness of society in February-March, together with the decline in perception of danger, has severely tested the capacity of our health care system. At present, it is essential that these restrictions, which were introduced gradually, but were introduced gradually, now help to bring down the infection rate in the second half of March, help to bring the infection rate down to R. The peak of hospital care should also be very high in the short term and not overburden our health care system. I'm sure vaccination will help here. Vaccination does not bring down infections, but clearly reduces the need for hospital care. I dare to estimate, on the basis of the models we have so far, that if zero inhabitants had been vaccinated in Estonia, we would now have at least 100 more patients in the hospital, we would have significantly more nursing homes, there would be intra-hospital infections, or health care continuity would be much more at risk. So from Estonia's point of view, something good has been in this rapid rise that the rise has come at a time when the size of 110000 and now more people have received protection, and above all the weakest and most vulnerable: people who work in a hospital, in a nursing care department, in a nursing home, plus the elderly population. As far as imposing stricter restrictions is concerned, this debate has indeed been held both in the previous government and in the current government. This does not usually go by political party lines; it goes by forms of discussion: there are members of the government at the table, there are the Chancellor of Justice, there is the Auditor General, there are representatives of the Scientific Advisory Board, there are representatives of the Health Board, if necessary other experts are involved and decisions are taken, say, to the extent that is acceptable to the members of the government in consensus. No restrictions are known to be put to the vote, no votes on the subject. It is true that I have expressed the same position that I have also expressed at the table of the government: until these last decisions, restrictions were not sufficient in Estonia. Only today can it be said that the restrictions in Estonia are sufficient to get the infection indicator down. I certainly do not want to say that the earlier restrictions did not have an impact. The introduction of any restriction has actually helped to bring down the rate of infection, but it can be said that these last restrictions give confidence that the rate of infection will not simply rise but will actually be lower than 1. Maybe we're really seeing a downward trend. There is, of course, a difference between an increase of 50% and a rise of 10%, but at this high level, 5% per week is too much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U57	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U58	Do you hear me? Very good! Here's the question. Latvians have been controlling the Estonian people on the border between Valka and Valga for the second month now, who want to go to the Latvian side. Two weeks ago, a paper negative sample certificate was requested and must not be older than... [[We're breaking up.]] The principal's answer was to let the Latvians go on our side. I wonder if it is the government's view that let the Latvians transport the virus to us and infect the people of South Estonia, or is it just the Prime Minister's view?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U59	I hope that I have correctly understood the hacked question of the past debate. Thank you for your question. It is true that in Latvia, the levels of the virus are 2.5 to nearly 3 times lower than those of Estonia. The risk that an Estonian citizen is infecting the inevitable neighbours is now greater than the opposite. It is absolutely necessary to carry out border checks. This is particularly necessary when we are talking about the arrivals of more distant countries, when we are talking about the strain of South Africa that has been introduced when we are talking about other exotic destination countries to which travel is, I would say, clearly contraindicated. Both Tanzania and South Africa have brought even more complex strains to Estonia, which may not be of the same size as the UK strain in their spread, but for which there is a higher risk of vaccine resistance and more serious health problems. I think that checks on those arriving from abroad must be carried out, in particular, in the case of countries outside Schengen, precisely when coming from those countries and regions where even more complex mutated strains are spreading, where our vaccination policy and all the progress we have made so far can be seriously hit. In the Estonian-Latvian direction, I do not see such a risk; rather, there is reasonable random checks, certain monitoring of compliance. It is true that we have also set a limit there that a negative test must be submitted if it is not an essential mobility for work or learning. There are, in fact, rules in place there too, but it is, of course, difficult to check these rules in a manner that takes into account the openness of the border.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U60	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U61	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Prime Minister Kaja Kallas has repeatedly stressed during this month that as few restrictions as is strictly necessary to control the virus must be applied. That is certainly a sympathetic position. Today we are in a position to evaluate these decisions. Have the decisions taken by the government over the last month and a half to control the virus been sufficient to contain the spread of the virus, as the Prime Minister has said? We are in a situation where infection in Estonia has basically tripled since 26 January. And the same question can be put differently: if you and the government in general could take the decisions of 26 January again, what would you do differently?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U62	Thank you very much for the questions. I will start by saying that the restrictions currently in force are sufficient. I'm pretty convinced of that. This is shown by the signs of infection, as shown by forecasts, by the experience of other countries, and by our own experience. The restrictions currently in force will help to bring the infection rate down. In the second half of March, we see stabilisation and then a downward trend, and this is reflected with a certain delay in hospital care numbers. When we talk about the restrictions that have been imposed earlier, about earlier discussions, we are wise afterwards. What was happening at the time was not only a government to say, but it was also proposed by the scientific council at the time, as I recall. Yes, the harmonisation of restrictions should have been based not on the lighter situation that existed in 13 counties at the time, but on the situation that had developed in Harjumaa and Ida-Virumaa. These restrictions should have been harmonised. In other words, the 15 counties should have introduced the same measures that were in force during the Christmas season, in December-January, namely in Harjumaa and Ida-Virumaa. The second area, which should have been discussed even more, concerns schools, education. Understandably, the desire to allow children to learn in the form of contact learning is strong and important. One should have wondered whether some hybrid solutions could be chosen, for example, according to age groups, or whether there would be any other differences. Those are the wisdom we've gained since then. The proposal to harmonise the restrictions did indeed come from the scientific council and, in itself, it was a sensible proposal, but at that point it was decided that in two counties the restrictions became less restrictive, in 13 counties stricter. Should have left at least the same ones in force in two counties and imposed stricter restrictions in 13 counties. Then we'd probably be in a different situation today.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U63	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U64	Good manager! Good minister! When the government imposed an emergency on March 12 a year ago, the infection rate was like a walrus party. Do you now think that these measures will be enough to control the spread of the virus? And the capacity of hospitals, when is the hottest time to survive?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U65	Thank you very much. Today's restrictions are enough, that's what I said once. Today's restrictions are in every way comparable to those in force during the emergency situation, both outdoors and indoors. Some restrictions are even stricter. If you remember, in spring there was no obligation to wear a mask. In spring, the catering establishments were not closed to such an extent; many did so on their own initiative. At the time, it was common for chairs to be raised on tables, since the seats themselves did not want to organise any events and receive people, but rather to engage in co-sales. Today there is a legal obligation only to engage in co-sales. So that's enough restrictions for now. Setting the emergency situation is rather a message for society, for the public. I think it would be useful in the sense that this part of society, which has not yet understood the gravity of the situation, these people are outnumbered, I am convinced of it, would also realise that this crisis is not a health issue and a solution to individual people, but is a challenge for the entire Estonian state. We can all make a huge contribution by our behaviour, our actions, our choices, even without restrictions. We need to be somewhat even more cautious when legal arrangements directly require us to do so. So that would definitely be a benefit. Speaking of hospital numbers, they've been stable for a couple of days. But life has shown that it is never worth drawing conclusions from any such gap or from a single day. The need for hospital care is not yet at its peak. It's definitely going up. At the same time, it is precisely in older risk groups and more generally in nursing homes that the vaccination coverage gives me confidence that the healthcare system will meet this challenge. Of course, coping does not mean that everything is fine. Don't misunderstand my words in that sense. Definitely the restriction of scheduled treatment, opening up COVID-19 departments at the expense of other departments, redirecting medical resources and people, including the inclusion of additional staff, all of this means that people in need of certain scheduled treatment will receive the necessary help later, receive it with delay. And, of course, it affects their health, their ability to work. So the health damage of this crisis cannot be measured solely by COVID-19 disease and death. These losses are broader and higher. I am very pleased that the previous government decided to allocate additional money to the sickness fund not only for this year, but for four years, 2021 to 2024. We can see that, in particular, the lower tax receipts caused by the fall in employment and the rise in unemployment would otherwise have severely restricted the budget of the sickness fund. At the same time, we must start reducing the debt of planned treatment afterwards. So I'm sure this whole challenge is huge. In the area of health itself, let's say, honest knowledge that at one point, when this COVID-19 pandemic peak is going to be over, it's going to be the second half of spring, when we see a significant drop in hospital care numbers, then undoubtedly all of the so-called hidden half of the treatment needs that have not been covered during the crisis must be dealt with. So summer is not the period when you can rest, neither is autumn. We need to deal with all this treatment debt, find new times for the planned operations and receptions that people need. And there is also the need to address public health support. If you ask about this tip specifically, my prediction is that the second half of March will be the hardest in hospital care. In April, we're starting to see a stabilisation, a gradual downward trend. However, this is the case with current assumptions when the infection rate goes below 1 and the infection rate starts to decrease.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U66	Oudekki Loone, please! I can't hear you! Still no word. But in order not to lose time, I have a suggestion that Oudekki, along with the technical staff, is trying to solve the problem and register as a questioner. Once the problem is solved, we'll put him in line, he can ask again as soon as possible. But let's keep going. Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Thank you for your presentation. As of today, we have strict domestic restrictions and people are expected to follow them. But why is only half the equation made? Why has there been no control over border movements, airports, ports? Internally, we are required to comply with strict restrictions, but borders are also known and unfamiliar to all the strains of the virus in the parish. This is a mockery of the Estonian people. If the government does not dare to decide, follow the example of a country that is acting specifically. For example, Iceland's infection rate is currently 5.6, but we have 1453. In Iceland, a negative response to the corona virus test must already be demonstrated at the airport of dispatch in order to enter the country. If the test hasn't been taken, there's no way on the plane. On arrival, a border test shall be carried out and the person shall then be quarantined and another test shall be carried out after 5 to 6 days. And if it's negative, then it's only possible to disappear towards the four winds. I ask again: why does our government not dare to decide? Make a full sweep, take control of what's happening at the border! Lead the process, don't drag in on the events! The Estonian economy and society will not survive this if, as a result of inadequately implemented restrictions, the opening of our society is still delayed in spring due to some bad surprises. Please do your job properly!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U68	Thank you very much for the question and the proposals. Let's talk numbers again. The majority of the infection is national. From the outside, a few percent of the number of infections has been introduced, and this is a very large difference from the beginning of the pandemic. It could be said that at first 100% had been introduced. We recall years ago, and actually the beginning of the second wave, where it was no longer an old strain, but new strains that came into us. There is no doubt that travel and movement have something to do with infection, but when it comes to getting the virus number down, getting the disease down, here is the main goal and the main goal of reducing intra-Estonian movements and contacts. If you look at the map, we will see that Estonia is really the second most infected in Europe. Thus, there is a higher risk of infection at home than in most European Union countries. A separate issue, however, is what I referred to earlier. However, when we talk about exotic countries, I personally support these flights and the restriction of movement to them. It is not the right time to go to discover the world now, risking that a strain that does not fully respond to the vaccine will be introduced into Estonia and that we cannot even predict the increase in the burden of hospital care, as these strains are constantly increasing. Unfortunately, this virus is not a stable phenomenon. He changes over time, mutates, adds different strains. We're probably talking about dozens of different strains that aren't all sequenced. So I support this part of your proposal. But this is a call for the state, of course, as well as for the private sector and for the people themselves: now is not the time to plan any trips to distant countries. At the moment, the focus must be on getting the virus numbers right, rather spending time in the family circle, in the fresh air and larger trips, while the majority of Estonians have been vaccinated. This gives us the opportunity to ensure that there is no third wave or continuation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U69	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U70	Hi! I hope I'm hearing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U71	I can hear you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U72	Excellent! Thank you, Minister, for this very interesting presentation. I would like to clarify one aspect, which was briefly mentioned on Tuesday. We've had a lot of people lately who are worried about the state making them vaccinate on a mandatory basis. Some people have medical indications why they don't want to do this. At the same time, you have always confirmed that the principle of the Estonian state has always been that health decisions in Estonia are primarily up to the person himself; people decide their bodies themselves. When we talk about these exceptional cases, it does not really give a very good picture of the general attitude of our society towards a measure such as vaccination. The more we've been vaccinated, the better the effect will be. Would you give Parliament some insight into the real attitude of Estonian people towards vaccination? How many people who want it, who expect it? And how many people prefer not to do that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U73	Thank you very much. We have really been doing surveys on vaccination since the summer. They have, of course, been done earlier, but specifically on the COVID-19 issue, rather since the summer. We see that in a stable order of 60% of the population wants to be vaccinated. There are twenty percent who hesitate, who want more information, who is between the two, and there is a smaller proportion, usually in polls around 20% or less, who are against the COVID-19 vaccine. And even less of them are against vaccination at all, no matter what vaccine you're talking about. They are basically anti-vaccine, as they are called. This means that the majority of people in Estonia are positive about vaccination in any case, it is very well understood that this is the only sustainable way to overcome this pandemic. As with many other viral diseases and other health threats, it is precisely the health sector, in cooperation with the scientific world, that offers sustainable solutions. Establishing restrictions, tightening, relaxing, re-introducing certainly cannot be a sustainable way to manage any health crisis. I very much hope that this positive example, which has been shown in the area of health, shown by frontier workers, education and internal security workers, residents of nursing homes, their loved ones and older people, will be positive and constructive. I have been in contact with family doctors and family nurses who confirm that these attitudes are reflected in the figures we see in the statistics, as well as in their daily work. The vast majority of the older target groups understand very well that vaccination is a reasonable way to protect their health and that of others. I very much hope that we will gradually reach a wider part of the population. Positive examples in people's own family, as well as in people known in society, are likely to work. Undoubtedly, science-based worldview and educational faith, which the Estonian people have always borne, will help achieve the stated goal of at least 70% of the adult population being vaccinated. And at some point, when the children come with suitable vaccines, of course, that's a chance to open up. However, this requires studies, which requires vaccines that are suitable for children. They may come at the end of the year, but they may be in the next few years. This research is being carried out, but no authorised vaccine that is suitable for people under 16 years of age is currently available in the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U74	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U75	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. As you said in your report before, the health sector is under a great deal of pressure, a lot of overtime is being done. And that is certainly the case. My thanks to all the good people who do this every day! But the question is: wouldn't it make sense to have COVID's rapid tests for free sales as soon as possible? And the state could distribute them free of charge to the institutions where it is very necessary and in this way take the burden off our current testers. There are a lot of people who could do this test at home free of charge. They may have no symptoms, but they want to control. When could it be true that rapid tests are freely available in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U76	Thank you very much for your question. The world of rapid tests, just as the world of medical devices is constantly changing. Last spring there was no antigen beam test, I stress, antigens and antibodies are different things, as well as well-known, available. Their sensitivity was examined, developed and the situation has improved. We have ordered, in the framework of the European Union's joint procurement, a quick test of 200,000 antigens. They have been used both in health care facilities and in nursing homes; they can also be used in the localization of certain colleges in the field of education. At the moment, there is no test for real home use. Certain countries have piloted them, exceptionally allowing a certain amount to be placed on the market, but such freedom of expression that you will acquire as much as you want, as far as I know, is not present in the European Union. Rather, it is tests intended for medical professionals, or health professionals, which can in principle be acquired by ordinary people, but for which they may not rely on a specific test manual. The wider market entry of rapid tests is certainly the subject of this year. Gradually, the Estonian Health Board and the Estonian Medicines Agency have started to communicate on this subject and also at European level. This debate is highly sensitive, as there are a large number of health experts who say that the introduction of the rapid test on the market will contribute to the spread of the virus. If they're not sensitive enough, precise enough, there's a risk that there's a lot of false negatives. There are those who say, like you, that this is still one way, an additional measure to control the virus. I think every test has the right place to use and time to use. Rapid tests cannot replace PCR, which is really a gold standard, with the most accurate tests. This is precisely what avoids false negative answers and very accurately finds positive ones. Rather, it can even produce false - positive results, perhaps too sensitive. But a false positive response is less risk than a false negative. If a person is too careful, this is not a risk from the point of view of spreading the virus. The risk is when a person is careless, thinking that he or she is healthy when he or she is actually infectious. As far as the wider introduction of rapid tests is concerned, if you ask when this date is, I cannot say with 100% certainty. But this year they will certainly be more accessible both to health care institutions and to the general public. A great deal of money, time and other resources have been invested in their development, and they have become increasingly sensitive, more precise. At the moment, work is being carried out to ensure that it is not necessary to dunk the sample from far away from the nasal throat, but that the sample can be retrieved in a somewhat simpler way. In addition, there are children's tests that work mostly on the PCR method today, but we are talking about throatwashing and such. Science is evolving, the health sector is evolving and these tests sooner or later will also be free sales. Not today.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U77	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U78	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Much has been criticised for the pace of vaccination, stressing that logistics and the performance of medical staff are bottlenecks. On the same Tuesday, a family doctor spoke in this large hall that they could vaccinate over 400 people in their center a day. If we now extend this performance to all family medical centres, including hospitals, private clinics and school nurses, Estonia should have the capacity to vaccinate the entire population in one week. Does that match math, and do you think this year's the Midsummer Day party?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U79	Thank you very much. I've made a comparison here. Let's just say for one list, it's perfectly realistic for a family doctor to vaccinate 100 people a day with the help of a family nurse. This is completely realistic and feasible. This, of course, requires certain planning, requires a very precise arrival of all these patients. And that would really mean that if we had 718 lists, we could vaccinate 80,000 people in one day. But that's not the amount of vaccine, and there's no such distribution for one day. I mean the specific target group, the risk group, who would like to come in one day to vaccinate. It can't be planned. People have to find the right time. But basically, in order to vaccinate the entire population within a few weeks, it is in itself theoretically, mathematically possible. At least one dose of vaccine could be given quickly to those who so wish and later, for example in the case of Pfizer/BioNTech after six weeks. In fact, the supply of vaccines, in particular, limits this pace. One day, let's say, 16,000 Pfizers, actually only 14,000. Then there is another delivery with 20,000 doses or 7,000 doses of each batch. So in theory, it's not possible to plan 50,000 vaccinations for one day or, I don't know, 80,000. Vaccinations are distributed unevenly over weeks according to when a vaccine arrives in Estonia, when the dates of vaccination are set and so on. But I'm sure the weekly rise in these numbers will continue, as we can see now. This week, the aim is to vaccinate 40,000 people in Estonia. We can estimate our performance with a "three" rating if it's between 35 00 and 40,000. 40000 + is actually a target that could be satisfied, given the dates of arrival of the vaccines. Unfortunately, some of them will come by the end of the week and will be vaccinated next week. The second part of the question: is there a party on Midsummer Eve? I think it's definitely going to be more restrained than usual, but it's already far more optimistic and it can be said that it's more secure than it was a year ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U80	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U81	Thank you. There are two types of vaccination in Estonia: voluntary and forced. For example, in the field of education, there are guidelines where workers from orphanages to higher education institutions are subject to vaccination. If the employer refuses, the contract of employment may be terminated. The same is true in the social sphere. In the Defence Forces, vaccination is linked to a matter of trust, as the leaders consider that peace and wartime do not differ in this respect. Recruitment is related to vaccination. And these are the kind of reports coming from every corner. The case of the Valkla nursing home on the cherry cake: the people there were vaccinated with force. At that, Prime Minister Kaja Kallas said that there would be no forced vaccination. It is a forced vaccination in various forms, which is cruel and inhuman. Stop it! People understand what's really going on. The people are desperate and losing their patience, given that these are still experimental vaccines.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U82	Thank you very much. I'll start at the end. These vaccines are still authorised. It is true that these are 'conditional' marketing authorisations, i.e. human health, and different indicators are also monitored further. Today, for example, we do not know how long immunity is guaranteed. For example, it is not possible to give two or three years of guarantees of antibody persistence in such a short period. After all, studies have been going on for six months or so. In any case, all vaccines authorised in the European Union have been positively evaluated by the European Medicines Agency. They are reliable, effective and safe for the patient. As I think we all know here, the European Union is known for its high standards, not for its easy hand in any vaccine or medicine being placed on the market. As regards the so-called 'enforced vaccination', it really does not exist in Estonia. These few exceptions or concerns, if there is any dispute encountered, are checked. I've asked you to investigate the same Valkla case. You indicated in our conversation that the Chancellor of Justice has also been approached on this subject. I'm sure we'll have to find out. But the fact that some agency representatives are really told that vaccinations are expected, so this work may be linked to additional risks and maybe there are restrictions on travelling or, for example, taking part in a foreign mission in the Defence Forces. Then it may be a prerequisite that a person has been vaccinated. Similarly, in the COVID-19 department, this may be a requirement imposed by the employer. Which makes sense, given the risk of infection and the danger to human health and others. In that case, it is necessary to find a more suitable office in the same institution in another department, in another unit or elsewhere. Inevitably, health risks concern each of us and, as I referred to earlier, vaccination is known to be the only sustainable way to put an end to this crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U83	Thank you. Mr. Minister, the time to ask questions is over. Thank you very much for your answers. Let's move on to today's agenda. The next speaker is Estonian Academy of Sciences Academician Krista Fischer. His report will last up to 15 minutes. Please! This should be done by electronic means.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U84	Hello for me, honourable Members of the Riigikogu and other listeners! I'll give you a quick data-based overview of where we are and where we might be going. As Minister Kiik said at the beginning, indeed, there were almost 2 000 new positive tests today. Well, it actually reflects a number of days' tests, if you look at the date of the test, I don't see that much. However, I see that on Monday there were more positive tests than on any of the previous Mondays, and on Tuesdays there were more of them than on any of the previous Tuesdays. So we're still seeing a growth trend. Yes, we must agree that the growth trend has slowed down, but it should not be too reassuring, because we are really at very high levels of infection. The growth trend also slowed down in November, for example, and it slowed down in January or late December, but unfortunately we saw that this was not enough for this deceleration to have led to an infection rate of R below 1. Therefore, the situation still needs to be monitored. Indeed, I also hope that the current restrictions, which are undoubtedly stricter than those that were in November, and those that were in December, will be useful. If we look at where we are now in Estonia with this pandemic, unfortunately, I cannot show my slides on the long road, but they were sent to you, then, of course, compared to last spring, we are still in a situation with a much higher background of infection, even considering that it is possible that last spring was two-thirds of the infected ones not tested. But even now, some of the tests remain untested, which is indicated by a very high percentage of positive tests, which is 20% lately. When I look at the age groups, how many people of the age group are infected by the test, I see that the average in Estonia is just under 6%, in some age groups it also exceeds 7%, for example, aged 15 to 19, and in women it also exceeds 7% in the thirties and forties and is slightly below this among men. The actual infection may be different, of course, but I still don't think we've over doubled it now. This is also indicated by a monitoring study showing antibody levels of approximately 10%. What some have assumed that natural immunity is around 300,000, however, can not yet be expected at this stage, although we have not found support for this claim on a data-based basis. Thus, penetration has not yet started to significantly affect infection. It may be a little different in some areas, but we can also see what is happening now in Saaremaa, despite the fact that the spring wave has gone pretty badly over Saaremaa and a pretty high percentage has already caught this infection. I was beginning to talk about these regional peculiarities. Indeed, today, compared to the whole of the previous pandemic period, I see exceptional differences in different regions of Estonia. If we look at an infection in Põlvamaa and an infection in Harjumaa and Saaremaa, the difference is almost five times. In one place, it's about 400 and in another, it's nearly 2,000. It is very difficult to find an explanation other than that the aggressive British strain has spread in Estonia and has not reached every county to the same extent. The information fragments that have come to me from the sequencing and the identification of this strain in SYNLAB also confirm that indeed, we have a lot in this strain and that it is not all the same. What do we know about this strain for today? We read in the literature that it is more than one and a half times more contagious and involves more than one-and-a-half differences in mortality as well as in the number of otherwise serious cases and hospital needs. This is a very serious argument why we really have to hope that these restrictions will help now, because this one-and-a-half difference in infection also means that if we talk about masks that are not known to protect a hundred percent, they offer some protection, they reduce the likelihood of infection, then now even in spite of the mask, the risk of infection with this new strain can still be clearly present. Of course, it is necessary to map the situation by more extensive sequencing or re-straining. Maybe that's what's gonna happen in the near future. When you come back to what's going on in different age groups, you can see huge differences here. The same 14-day prevalence of infection in some age groups is around 2,000, for example, still in the 15- to 19 age group, despite the fact that schools have been stuck, had a break and had a distance study. It seems that young people at that age meet otherwise. It is also very high in the age groups 20 to 24 and 35 to 39. At the same time, and this is good, the incidence of infection among the elderly is lower, with 75+ people still more than twice as low. However, different modelling data have also shown that this virus does not spread to the elderly. If it still reaches the elderly, the elderly do not infect so many other elderly people, we leave out nursing homes because the virus inevitably reaches the entire nursing home, but it is the younger age groups that take it to the older age groups. We always see such a time sequence that if the infection goes up among young people, it will be among the elderly after a while. That is why we see that, at least so far, there has been no way of protecting these risk groups. We still need to prevent the spread of infection among young people and reduce it, just to protect the old ones as well. Now, in the case of this new strain, we also see that in fact hospital patients are getting younger and younger, so young people themselves must also be protected. Now I'm gonna get to the hospital with my story. I see, however, that one trend has clearly persisted all the time: the average number of patients reaching the hospital every day is increasing. It's an important indicator because it's a little bit of an indication of how many hospitals are going to be needed. This one doesn't quite correspond to one, but roughly, so far, if I multiply the average daily number of patients to hospital by ten, I'm going to get the number of patients in the hospital in a few days. I think 64 people went to the hospital today, and about 640 are already in the hospital. But in the last few days, in the last week, I have seen that there are a little less patients in the hospital, probably suggesting that there has been a reaction to the fact that hospitals are difficult and likely to have been sent home more quickly and more chosen to take in. However, we are seeing a trend moving up and, as the Minister mentioned earlier, this trend does not seem to fall right now. When it comes to forecasts, we know that the probability of a serious accident, the probability that a person needs hospital treatment, is very dependent on age. Unfortunately, we cannot say that this is non-existent among young people. Even under 30-year-olds get to the hospital. At present, there are only about 1% of the infected, but if there are very many infected, this 1% will also become a large number. But the older it gets, the bigger it gets. From the age of 60 to 69, 10 to 15% of those who are infected already need hospital care. Based on these data, we can also predict a little bit. Additional knowledge is that indeed, the contingent of hospital patients is clearly getting younger, but the infection is also very common among young people. We know that the British strain is causing more of this difficult situation among young people. I have said that if these restrictions had not come, the number of hospital patients would have approached a thousand quickly. In the current situation, however, where there is hope that growth will slow down, perhaps it will not achieve a thousand. You can't give, but there's hope. There was a variety of prognosis to what he's gonna do in the near future. The slides I sent have three different prognosis for this. It shows that all projections assume that the infection level is starting to go down. In fact, even if there are no restrictions, it will never go down, only then it will come down because of the so-called herd immunity, leading to the need for hospital care and the deaths that will on average result, and that would undoubtedly be too severe. However, it is now a question of how quickly this will come under the influence of restrictions. We can avoid worse predictions. Although these graphs that I've drawn and you can see on these slides, these three seem similar, they mean quite different situations. The first is that we are still going to see within a few weeks that the daily number of infected people exceeds 2000, and then they start to go down, at first slowly, they're just under 2000, they go down to 1,500 and then 1,000, and so on. This means that indeed this limit of 1000 hospital patients would be exceeded, and the time when such a situation occurs will last for quite several weeks. It may simply not be manageable. The second scenario, however, says that the decline will be achieved, but not so quickly, maybe at first it is more or less consistent, that the infection rate R will fall to 1.1 to 1.05 and further down from there, but it will still take time before the daily number of infected persons starts to significantly lower than 1500 and eventually lower than 1000. This, however, also means a long and difficult situation. When it comes to the third scenario that was drawn, it shows that we are really going to see a slight decline by the end of next week, and this decline is accelerating, and finally the infection rate R 0.8 is going to stay there at 0.8. This would really indicate that we could already adopt May very calmly and not only Midsummer Day, but perhaps already celebrate May Day outdoors with our friends. Is that gonna happen? Yeah, I'm not too optimistic, although an optimistic scenario might draw this graph. Indeed, the curves of other countries have also shown that if infection is detected in a declining trend, in some places the decline has come very quickly. It has come at a rather harsh lockdown price, indeed it is [the state] quite locked, there are quite harsh restrictions on movement, but nevertheless the fall has come relatively quickly. We see that in a few weeks it has gone down pretty fast, so it is not impossible at all. But yes, its real occurrence depends on many circumstances. This is accompanied by forecasts of hospital care and mortality. As far as mortality is concerned, this is one of the things that has been said less recently, although the problem is quite serious. If we bring aside the general statistics that on average 42 people die a day in Estonia for all kinds of reasons, and we are now seeing COVID-related deaths on average 10 days or just under 10, then we can actually see that one fifth of deaths are now only due to this one infectious disease, which suggests a significant excess mortality. If speculated that those who are supposed to die either way are killed, we can estimate that the active infected are in the population of 1 to 2%, and if there are 1 to 2% of those who are infected in 42 of them, then we can say that maybe this is a random picture, but now we do not see 1 to 2%, but still a fifth. Unfortunately, Statistics Estonia has stopped publishing this short-term statistics, but I understand that it will recover in the near future, and we will also see clearly on the data whether and what is too much mortality. It seems to me that it has now arisen, and quite remarkably. In order to achieve this rapid decline, too, we need to hope that the restrictions will still work. The last slide has a comparison in the European context, but regrettably two countries with very high levels of infection have been forgotten there, one of which is currently even higher than us, it is the Czech Republic, and the other is Montenegro. But, with the exception of the Czech Republic and Montenegro, in general, the picture really is that we are clearly at the top of the infection in Europe, actually second after the Czech Republic. When we look at the history of the autumn wave, we also see that a number of countries have gone, in fact individual countries, high up there, even above us. This hump has been higher in four or five countries than we have now. We are quite close to the peak where Lithuania was in December, and we may not have reached a climax yet. So here too, yes, it is to be hoped that the next move will not be so similar to Lithuania, which was quite slow to lose the number of infected people, but rather goes, like Belgium or Portugal, where it was quickly brought down from the top again. So much for a quick data-based overview. I see I haven't been talking all my time, but there's more time to answer questions, which I'd be happy to do. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U85	Thank you. Now all members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to ask questions to Mrs Krista Fischer. First question, Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U86	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Academician Krista Fischer! Thank you very much for today's very thorough review and for the material already sent yesterday, which was accessible and better prepared for today! But I would especially like to thank you for all the work you have done for more than a year, and also for giving information to the Committee on Social Affairs. Even in the most critical, difficult moments, you've always been there. You have certainly discussed when and how the vaccination will affect the spread of the infection. It seems to me that the government has somehow prematurely given people the hope that vaccination will resolve the matter immediately. You also said today that you must not deceive yourself with messages that growth has slowed down. Actually, the trend is rising. When do you estimate that vaccination will have a real effect?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U87	Yes, in that I must agree with you that the effect of vaccination is really not that rapid. I have calculated that if, at present, about 7.5% of the infected need hospital care and if 100% of all people over the age of eighty are vaccinated, the need would be reduced to 6.5%. So, yes, we can see that the number of hospital patients might be reduced by this, but it would not be so small that life in hospitals would be very easy, especially at very high levels of infection. Vaccination will actually prevent the spread of infection when it reaches those population groups with a high number of contacts, i.e. young people. At the moment, vaccination, in particular for the elderly and at-risk groups, is clearly a priority, as well as different workers in key places, who, however, do not have enough as a percentage of the population, so that we can count on it now. We can hope that in the autumn we will not have a new, very serious wave unless there are some mutations that get past this vaccine. Well, maybe that's when vaccination's gonna work. But right now, in the near future, in the spring, that it would allow us to be in a much better position by midsummer, I really don't think so. I rather hope that current restrictions, human behaviour and perhaps summer weather, at least in the opinion of Professor Merits, will also have a significant impact on preventing the spread of the virus, all of which together will help us to be calmer for Midsummer Day.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U88	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U89	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you for your presentation. I was listening to Tanel Swing. It is undoubtedly a very wise person. But when I thought about it afterwards, I realized that something was going to be done, but what was going to be done, what was going to be done, when was going to be done, I got a little bit confused about it. Excessive democracy is destructive, said the professor at the University of Helsinki. If we come to the process of dealing with the crisis, I would like your opinion. Do you think it is reasonable to be democratic and to prolong the crisis or to be an autocratch? Of course, it takes courage to make unpopular decisions, but in my opinion this would shorten the period of crisis and, among other things, reduce economic damage. We have a good experience with African swine fever. We could really do some analysis of what the Latvians did during the African plague and are still doing today. They have a good experience in this regard.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U90	Thank you for your question. The issue of democracy in general is rather a political issue. But how do we react now? Personally, I also have the opinion that we can effectively suppress infection with short-term restrictions rather than severe restrictions. Maybe we're too late for this, because right now, even in the short term, we can't get the infection down so much that we can do two weeks of very rough lockdown and then we'll be calm. However, it would be more efficient and, in the long run, perhaps even cheaper for the economy than such a very long high target of infection, I think. In this respect, I agree that this is the question of how to strike a balance between democracy and people's rights and preventing the spread of infection.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U91	Thank you. Since the remote session does not have a list of the next questioners in the Chamber, I read them three or four by three from time to time. Now Imre Sooäär, after him Riina Sikkut, then Paul Puustusmaa and Jürgen Ligi. Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U92	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Professor Fischer, always for your very constructive and meaningful comments, both in the common media and in this Chamber of the Riigikogu today! My question is about the speedy tests that Mrs Reinsalu, as well as Minister Tanel Kiik, addressed in her presentation today. As a scientist, in your opinion, what could be its impact, its effectiveness, its degree of accuracy? Are you in favour of such a high speed test? The second question is that the current vaccination passports are out of date, they are from the beginning of the nineties, they can be copied and made by anyone in a copy machine. Could the introduction of such a digital passport, which would also be an international example by Estonia, be a good initiative for researchers, which could lead to an increase in the international profile of Estonia? The Ministry of Foreign Affairs selected the Estonian company Guardtime's digital vaccination pass from among many digital solutions in the international competition in December. Its introduction around the world could begin to contribute to the gradual opening up of society. What do you think as a scientist?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U93	Thank you for your question. The first question was the rapid tests. Yes, I think that the characteristics of these tests should be further developed in order to see what risks are associated with inaccuracies. As far as I can tell, better antigen tests are good at catching the most infectious. If a person is actually infectious, this antigen test still gives a positive result. If a person is infected, but doesn't spread that much of the virus yet, maybe the test will give a negative result. The question now is how to make it well aware that the negative result of an antigen test may not, in any case, mean that a person is not infected. But at the same time, this test could undoubtedly help to provide certainty if it was necessary to know very quickly whether a person could be potentially infectious or not. It seems to me that there is potential and could be used more, but it is not such an easy yes or no answer. There is certainly a need for further consideration of this background. The other half of the question I forgot what was in it. Can you repeat that from the other side? Oh, I think I remembered the vaccination passes. A vaccination passport to see if it could be digital. Of course, I'm in favour of it, I'm a very good paperwork loser myself. I would like things to be digital, that I log in where I need to, and that I always get what I need, personally and in Estonia at all times. I like the digital state, and it's not good to keep things on paper. How will it be used in the future? Yeah, I also see there's definitely your potential that once a person has been vaccinated, you could simplify his movement, from one moment to the next. I agree with you on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U94	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U95	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I really thank you for your work over the last year and for today's meaningful presentation. [[I can't hear you.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U96	The picture and the text went down. Looks like Riina Sikkut has a problem. We'll come back to him, but let's get another questioner right now. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U97	Thank you very much, manager. Dear Professor, I sincerely thank you for such a comprehensive and good presentation. On 7 March, you said that our medicine has reached its limits. Today, we know that Estonia continues to be the second most infected in Europe per 100000 inhabitants. New sad records came in today, things are getting worse. It was also announced today that several hospitals have already filled 100% of the beds of corona patients. At the same time, fortunately, we are also offered help from outside. For example, yesterday a notice came about a Lithuanian offer of assistance; Estonia is offered very many kinds of assistance, as confirmed by Lithuanian Prime Minister Ingrida Šimonyte. Do you think we should accept Lithuanian aid? I have not heard that we have reacted more precisely. And what is your assessment of whether declaring an emergency situation in terms of social health would make sense to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U98	Thank you for your question. Whether or not it is necessary to accept assistance or to think about it, the Minister certainly has a much better view of it than I do. In Estonia, these resources are still, to my knowledge, although yes, maybe it is a little awkward that the sick should be transported from almost one end of Estonia to another, but at least this is a solution without having to use foreign aid, and I understand that it is being used now. Yes, we are at the border in terms of the need, as the Minister mentioned, to make certain cuts in the provision of scheduled treatment, even more than has been done so far. And it's complicated with the staff. But I don't have all the information about all the resources we can use, probably the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Minister. I therefore owe an answer in this regard. But yes, there was another part of the question. Maybe you can repeat what the other side was.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U99	Announcement of an emergency situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U100	Oh, emergency announcement, yeah. Well, there is no scientific answer to that question. On the one hand, I really understand that decisions can now be made without an emergency situation. But another thing, I have a feeling that a psychological emergency would, of course, give people a very strong message. I even see that it is not taken seriously enough that the situation is, as it is, and the risk of infection is really very high. People are rather discussing what they can and must not do because of restrictions, not how they themselves can keep their risk of infection and spreading the infection as low as possible. Yes, here is the question of how to communicate to the public that it is really necessary to monitor behaviour very closely now, and also whether it can be done without an emergency situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U101	Thank you. Looks like Riina Sikkut is back. Please, Riina Sikkut!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U102	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress, thank you for your meaningful presentation. The Prime Minister has said that restrictions must be those that are strictly necessary to contain the virus. It's perfectly understandable that we don't want to limit ourselves more or longer than we need. Do you think that over the last month, the government has made a package of decisions that have been absolutely necessary to keep the situation under control?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U103	Thank you for your question. There is no such single scientific response to what is strictly necessary. Unfortunately, we cannot say this very precisely today, nor have scientists from all over the world come to very clear answers as to how much it reduces infection when shopping centres are closed when restaurants are closed. These tests have been carried out. We see estimates that all these things have an effect, and we know that the virus spreads through people-to-people contacts. This means that any restriction that reduces contact will have an impact on the reduction of infection. Given the spread of an aggressive British strain and the additional risks that accompany it, I am saying that we cannot hope that we will do a few things that seem inevitable and maybe these others are not necessarily necessary. It is very difficult to decide here or to give such a clear and black and white answer that, look, this has to be done, but let's not. Yeah, there's no simple answer to that. Has the government done this? In any case, restrictions reduce people-to-people contacts. The ones that have been done will have an effect. If they're enough, we'll see. We can hope it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U104	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U105	Thank you. Professor Fischer, thank you for your presentation. My preference for restrictions may be a little heresy, but I think we should focus on more likely things and more difficult cases. But all right, then let's talk about this coefficient of infection. How do your models reflect things like the unexpected news of an infection rate falling to 1.07? It's hard for me to believe, but that's the news yesterday. Secondly, how does it reflect the spread of vaccination and penetration? Can you be more specific about their influence right now? However, this fluctuation around 1 is very sensitive.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U106	Thank you. In fact, in these forecasts, in the three variants that were also sent to you, none of these three have a coefficient of infection of more than 1.1. In the first one, it's going to be 1.1 and then it's going to fall, in the second one it's going to start at 1.05 or 1. But this is a slowdown in growth, not a change in growth to shrink. If a car travels 100 kilometers an hour or 80 kilometers an hour, they are different speeds, but in both cases the car drives, right, not stopping. The increase in infection, with this R, is the same thing. He hasn't gone down yet. But there is no doubt that vaccination and rejection will have to be increasingly taken into account in the models. At first, however, we can simply hope that, if the projections assume that the infection rate R will go down, vaccination will also contribute to it, in addition to the restrictions. But now, as I said before, the effect of vaccination is quite small. It's not big enough to make a significant difference. Breakthrough, as I said, in my opinion, cannot in any case be more than 15% average in Estonia, and I think it is rather less than that. So it doesn't affect so much either that we should circle the models completely. Yeah, inevitably at one point or another, they're going to lower the R a little bit, but maybe only a little.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U107	Thank you. The next four questioners are Tarmo Kruusimäe, Anti Poolams, Marko Storm and Mikhail Lotman. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U108	Thank you, good Chairman! Thank you, good waitress, thank you very much for your thorough review. I am convinced that we can now turn all these problems to some extent in favour of the Estonian people if we contribute more to strategic communication, raising people's awareness and fighting, say, against false news. Could and to what extent this be reflected in forecasts if we were to contribute and engage in private media today in order to fight false news?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U109	Thank you. I think this is a very important point. Thank you for your question. I am convinced that effective, convincing communication is very important. This has also been demonstrated by international studies that effective communication has an equivalent or even better effect than many tougher measures. Indeed, it is important. Such a good example has been shown, for example, by New Zealand, where a very harsh policy has been maintained that the virus is not being allowed to spread on the island at all. It is also easier for the island state, of course, but there is such empathetic communication, oppressive and positive but convincing to keep the people united, which has contributed significantly to this. Just yesterday, there were articles on the subject in the media. It would be worth taking the lead in thinking about who the opinion leaders are on whose side it might come from. It would be good if the media were to contribute, not to stress on the news how difficult restrictions are, how difficult it is now, because there are restrictions, but rather to try together, to somehow overcome this thing by keeping together.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U110	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U111	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I'm interested in the vitamin issue. I remember that in the Kuressaare hospital, vitamin C was started to be administered as one drug in the spring. I have seen quite a lot of studies, which are still underway, some have been completed and received positive results in the use of vitamin D and C, including the relationship between higher mortality and the deficiency of these vitamins. But I don't hear, like, any noises about it or any announcements that it might help. Similarly, it could be very helpful for children who are now home - trained. The lack of vitamin D in Nordics is generally known and has a debilitating effect on immunity. Is it not time to pay attention to such simple tools, especially for young people and children?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U112	Thank you for your question. Listening to this question, I did a quick Google, and on January 11, a prestigious medical journal, published in Lancet magazine, immediately appeared. Indeed, there has been a great deal of conflicting information. In fact, it is true that vitamin D has an important effect in strengthening overall immunity, but such a very clear link, I understand, in the case of COVID-19 in particular, has not been so convincingly demonstrated by these major studies. Of course, both vitamin D and vitamin C are known to be important vitamins to help us survive the normal viral periods. But right now, looking at it quickly, I can say I am not really into it, but I have realised that there has not been a very clear, large, concrete study or meta-analysis that would give a single answer so that it should be recommended more widely. But I'm sure it's worth checking out. On medicines and also on pharmaceutical prevention, I think, medics certainly have a role to play in investigating and telling what is effective and which are also perhaps problematic for one intervention or another.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U113	Marko Storm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U114	Good manager! Honourable Academician! Maybe a quick line on communication. I think it will certainly be helpful for good communication if there is one very firmly established speaker. For God's sake, it doesn't have to be the Prime Minister, Krista Fischer, or even Irja Lutsar. For my sake, it could be the Secretary of State. But that's it. The question concerns the pace of vaccination and the onset of herd immunity. Now, let's watch out for two steps, let's watch out for the fall, if something's probably gotten a little better by traveling, people starting to move, a new school year starts, summer's just behind us, and a false sense of security has developed. Have you also modeled what level of vaccination we should achieve by autumn so that we can meet the autumn season in the normal rhythm, not in view of last year, but in view of the normal way of life?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U115	I owe you an exact numerical answer. I know that, in general, this problem would be overcome if the vaccination rate was 70 to 80%. Then the virus begins to disappear quietly. But in view of the fall, I think there's got to be a combination here for the time being. Of course, vaccination, let's say, schoolteacher vaccination and everything else is very good. But by then there could be better solutions, you could think about ventilation in schools, for example, and how to monitor air quality. I understand that this is key in schools to keep the risk of infection low. However, measures to prevent the spread of infection are also likely to be needed in the autumn. In Denmark, for example, there is a plan to achieve vaccination of virtually the entire population by June. I don't know if they're gonna make it. But is it possible to achieve 70-80% in Estonia by autumn? I'm not so sure. Here maybe other people could answer better. If this were achieved, it would be easier. It is likely that this problem of ventilation is also very important in terms of the spread of other diseases, which should be addressed. It is necessary to prepare for new spread of the infection. Possibly some mutations get past this vaccine and threaten us. You still have to be prepared to prevent this virus in other ways.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U116	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U117	Thank you very much. Dear Professor Fischer! I'm a big fan of your work, but Mario Kadastik's analyses are also very inspiring. My own mathematical background is very modest, but I have been using various statistical methods to analyze my data for over half a century. There's two things. First of all, let's say, second of all, this is the mathematical model we're using. First of all, there's the data, there's the data, there's the data. In this sense, I have a great deal of concern because the government decided to restrict the public access to COVID-19 data. I have two questions. First of all, I haven't noticed that you're using the results of the sewage analysis we're reading in Professor Tanel Tenson's writings. Don't you think this data would be useful? Secondly, in many countries there are public data on excess mortality. I have not seen them in Estonia. You mentioned excess mortality. But I think it would be very useful to disclose these data. What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U118	Thanks for the questions. In answer to the first question: I did not really talk about the waste water survey, but I have otherwise reflected it in various reports. In my opinion, this is very important information and it has helped a little to look at the near future. As life has shown, sewage shows the risk of infection and the spread of infection shortly before positive tests come from humans. The Sewage Research has also led the Health Board to nursing homes, for example. Some of these have been identified precisely because of the sewage signal, then they have been tested, and indeed they have been found and have been isolated. So it's extremely valuable information that comes from there, and it's very important in any case. Data. Yes, indeed, I very much hope that the open data that is currently available on the website of the Health Board and on which my daily analysis is based will remain there, [they are needed] not only for me, but also for all other analysts. For example, if you look at the Korona.ut.ee page, there are very nice visualizations of these data and everything else from the University of Tartu Institute of Computer Science. All these people can continue to do this work because there is very valuable information coming from it. I have not heard whether this is now going to be the case, as was the case here with the dissemination of a specific report. But the data on excess mortality showed that, in fact, until the end of January of this year, Statistics Estonia published short-term statistics on weekly deaths, from which it also saw data on excess mortality. I saw that, for example, last December there was a clearly statistically significant, clearly identifiable excess mortality. The mortality rate in December was 1.5% higher than the average for the last 10 years, and in January it was likely to be higher. But yes, from January on... I hope it will recover in the near future. I've been informed that there may have been a communication disturbance at the Statistical Office, but now the problems have been solved and the data will be released again. I don't know when it's gonna be, but I hope it's gonna be soon.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U119	The next four questioners are Indrek Saar, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Marika Tuus-Laul and Peeter Ernits. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U120	Thank you, Mr President, for giving the floor. Thank you very much, Professor Fischer, for this presentation and even more thank you for all the work you've done during the year we've been fighting the epidemic. We politicians still like to talk about knowledge-based decision-making lately, but I dare say that you have played a very important role in bringing the government and various prime ministers to these numbers, which are often overlooked for some reason or ignored for quite a long time before they are finally heard. My question is, in some ways, about what happens next and what is today's situation. We see we have a critical number of people in the hospital, a lot of dead people. How much of this, we can say, is the British strain, and what should we monitor in this context in the near future? What happened to the British strain mutation, and what's the overall background that's already gotten high?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U121	Thank you for that question. Indeed, the British strain is taking over in Estonia. As far as I'm concerned, I can tell you that the British strain has grown very fast, it's overwhelming. Didn't the media have information from SYNLAB yesterday that the British strain is more than 70% of those infected with Estonia? County variability is great here, too, as I have said. We know the information that has come from British scientists, which our preliminary data confirms, the information from hospitals that the picture of the disease has changed and that more young people in their three or four decades of age are seen with very severe pneumonia. Yeah, there's also information from the literature about higher mortality rates. Plus, the information that he's infecting a lot more easily than the previous strain, one and a half times more easily. It's kind of a cautious extra moment. Otherwise, we can see, yes, that maybe the numbers of the infected are going down, for example. In January it was that the numbers of the infected began to go down, even as a bit deceptively there was such a slight decrease. Here was one thing, yes, a slight easing of restrictions in parts of places. But I think the second factor, which still caused such a very rapid increase in infection, and in some counties, even as a rocket, was the same British strain. Now, if the restrictions are not effective, those counties will follow, where this effect has not yet been seen in this way. For example, infection in the counties of Tartu and Pärnu is now more or less the same level as it was in January. But then again, in Harjumaa, there were 1,200 of those 2,000 that came from Harjumaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U122	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, the time for questions and answers has already passed. Do you think we'll have to ask those who are registered, and then we'll go to the negotiations? Yeah, great. Let's continue with the questions. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U123	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Professor Fischer! My question also concerns mortality, but from a slightly different angle. As of this morning, 686 people have died in Corona, and since 26 January, when the current government took office, 288 have died, which is almost five times as many as died in traffic last year. It bothers me terribly that this dehumanization of older people is spreading, I can't say it any other way: we insist every day that an old person died like this and then an old person died like that, and we actually hear those attitudes that, uh, they're so old that they're gonna die anyway. This is particularly the case where older people are the most vulnerable in terms of spreading the corona, do not distribute themselves, but have the most difficult consequences. Consequently, I have a question for you, which is a two-part question. Have you calculated to what extent there would be fewer corona deaths in Estonia if, for example, our infection had remained at the level of November? That's the first half of the question. The other side is this: has it been calculated how many years of life we have actually lost in Estonia or as a whole, how many years of life have been lost in Europe because of this additional mortality?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U124	That is a very good point and a question. Indeed, I too personally have been greatly disturbed by the talk of how schoolchildren now suffer because some old people die. At the same time, when we look at it, the real purpose of medicine and society at all, the development of humanity, has been to extend life expectancy lately, also in Estonia. We are still concerned that men tend to have a relatively low life expectancy in the European context. And now all of a sudden, it doesn't matter that it could be as long as possible. We know, for example, that an 85-year-old who has already lived so old has an average life expectancy of six years. It is not the case that the death of an 85-year-old was necessarily only due to his age, that he had to die anyway. In his case, too, we can talk about an average of six years of lost life. I think that this calculation must certainly be made when more accurate data are available on the excess mortality rate, how many dead people in different age groups are more than usual, which was the life expectancy in these age groups, how many years we would have expected and how many years of life have been lost. This is a very necessary analysis of what to do. I would also point out that if there is too much mortality among the elderly, this is quite a serious problem. Personally, I know some people over 80 years of age, but with a very good working capacity, very sharp thinking. Indeed, the elderly should under no circumstances be written off; they are of great value. But the age distribution of the dead has also slightly gone towards the younger ones. The spread of the British strain and the widespread spread of infection in general also lead to a corona below the age of the dead, which means an even greater loss in the number of years of life. Yeah, I also hope that in the near future, we can still do something about this calculation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U125	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U126	Thank you. Mrs. Academician Fischer! Yesterday, the Expert Committee on Immunoprophylaxis announced that the vaccine astraZeneca would be administered to 70+-year-olds and that the difference between the two doses would be greater. My question is whether, perhaps on such a sensitive subject, the proofs of the producer company and the positions of the European institutions who have ever taken these decisions should no longer be taken into account. This has now been a decision made at Estonian level. At first, it was said that it was not so effective for 70+. So, what's it really like with these things? How much less effective is that? And also, how many countries are not currently vaccinating 70+, i.e. not those who are vaccinating, but those who are not vaccinating?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U127	I am very sorry, I am certainly not very competent to answer this question; I am not on the immunoprophylaxis committee. There are very good experts together. I believe that when they made such a recommendation, this recommendation was absolutely evidence-based, that they actually looked at, and made, known data, European and international data. Yeah, thinking about it, as far as I know about the work of the vaccine, I can tell you that the information is that these vaccines are all quite equally effective and that it is probably right to change this age limit. But I really hope there might be somebody more qualified to comment on it. I don't have any fresh information on this at hand right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U128	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U129	Honourable performer! Dear Academician! It's good to hear an educated, smart and informed story here for a long time. But you have one grant that will end on March 31st. You're saying there that we don't know the real spread of COVID infection among the population, we don't know how it's spread between different sections of the population. I don't know if it's Estonians and Russians or anything else. Please open up some background on your research. Grant will end on 31 March and you will probably have a lot of material to actually manage this crisis. You're saying in this grand explanatory statement that an epidemic cannot be effectively contained if you don't know who's really infected.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U130	Yeah, that reference to the grand is a little surprising. I was beginning to wonder what kind of grant you were thinking. I'm involved in COVID's active surveillance survey, which has also been funded, but my summer grant application didn't get the funding. Our institute has received an extra one private donation to study the topic of COVID, which is not a specific grant. I don't have that kind of grant mentioned. I have a new grant, which started this year, where one of the three work packages is dedicated to COVID, the aim of which is to develop a framework for modelling infectious diseases in Estonia. But I'm gonna have to ask you what kind of specific grant you're referring to right now. Was it what we applied for but couldn't? I didn't understand that question right now. Of course, this is my subject all the time, and that is what I try to understand better all the time regardless of the grant, to use all kinds of data, both from the monitoring survey and those that come from the tests every day. I'm trying to figure out what's going on in age groups, what's going on in different areas, exactly how the virus spreads, and what explains it. These are the questions we're looking at all the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U131	Peter Ernits, is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U132	Well, that's one way to put it. If the honourable lady does not know, I say that there are officially two grants and one is 1.5 million. I can't find the number right now. It's in ETIS, hanging there. The executor is someone else.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U133	It wasn't a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U134	Yes, if the executioner is someone else and I'm not among the executioners, I find it very difficult to comment on what the grant is and what exactly is being done there. The study I am actively participating in is indeed this active monitoring of COVID. I'm part of the team, I'm not one of the main players, but I'm part of the team. We're trying to get a better picture from a random sample. So, yeah, let's try to get the information we can't get from routine testing. But the problem with it is that random selections from the population may be taken, but it is absolutely impossible to invite all of these people to test, because those who are willing to come and want to participate are still coming to test. So there might be a certain bias, which we are very well aware of. There are limits. But yes, we have done so regularly, and these results have also been made public on a regular basis. Ruth Kalda, at the head, has introduced them mostly.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U135	Thank you. The last two are Urve Tiidus and Siim Kallas. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U136	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Krista Fischer! I don't think there's a single person right now who doesn't want to know what the future is going to be for us, precisely this pandemic and this health. You're the person who can model the future. As a result, please give three recommendations to all people in any age group at every end of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U137	The first suggestion is certainly this: Avoid contact, wherever possible, with people outside your family. My family and I have undertaken to try out solutions for all major e-food shops, which one is the fastest and most effective. Actually, they all work. For example, there is everything in the city of Tartu, and in small places it may be more a problem. So I strongly recommend looking at e-shops instead of real shopping, if possible. Wear a mask. Indeed, the virus spreads by air, through aerosol particles. As far as we have learned from the researchers of the University of Tartu, the mask is really helpful in public indoors. When you go to the store, you don't want to show your protest by going to the store for ten minutes or wearing a mask. These would certainly be two suggestions. What I'm gonna say here is that people are really sick of this virus crap. We're talking Coronary Fatigue. It's not so much the limitations that we're tired of, it's just that the virus is spreading. Certainly, attention should be paid to maintaining health even otherwise, in order to maintain a positive mood and spiritual health. Now is the time of spring, and the more beautiful weather offers the opportunity to travel in much of the fresh air, which has nothing to do with the increase in the risk of infection, but with the strengthening of overall health. I certainly want to encourage those who have been offered vaccination to accept this offer. Older relatives, acquaintances, teachers, we can do a lot to protect vulnerable groups. That would be the third suggestion if I thought about it now without preparation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U138	Thank you. Imre Sooäär, is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U139	Yes, I have a procedural remark, Mr President. A good colleague, Peeter Ernits, attacked the performer with some kind of speculative grant idea. The use of a procedural question is inappropriate and does not comply with our rules of procedure and rules of procedure. I ask the President to keep this in mind and the members of the Riigikogu to stick to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U140	Thank you. Yes, the President also remarked that this was not a procedural issue. But personally, I didn't really understand that as an attack. But before Siim Kallas puts an end to our round of questions, the clock has reached the point that we have to vote. So that we can also go to the negotiations, we need to extend the session. It's a saalikutsung. Honourable Riigikogu! The Special Committee on State Budget Control proposes to extend the working time, if necessary, until the agenda item is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. I shall put to the vote the extension of the sitting. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U141	The extension is supported by 54 members of the Riigikogu, there are no votes against and 1 is impartial. The session has been extended until 14 p.m. Now I give the last question to Mr Kallas. But before that, Jürgen Ligi has his hand up. Is it? The button was accidentally pressed. Got it. Please, Siim Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U142	Thank you very much, Mr President, for this opportunity to ask a question a long time after the expiry of the deadline. I'm very pleased with that. I ask the Honorable Professor Fischer how accurate you are to assess your mathematical models, which you use, how strong the correlation between different variables is between different variables. For example, if I were to say that it is a desire to reduce the number of patients in hospital by 20%, how does it correlate with, for example, the closure of school classes, how many percent of school classes have to be shut down? This is a bit of an extreme example. But still, how accurate are you to assess the models you use?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U143	Yeah, that's a good question. Indeed, the statistical model has this property that it provides an estimate of some average that depends on the input parameters. Around this mean, we know, there's random variability, and in reality practically never, we'll see, if we predict what might happen in the future, that it's going to be exactly the number that the model said, but at best we'll still get the forecast interval. There can be no such absolute accuracy in this respect. We do not have a modeling of physical processes here, but a modeling of processes that depend on human behavior. These input parameters have been evaluated at one point on the basis of actual data and are entirely adequate, such as the percentage of people who are infected going to the hospital, but they may also change, for example, if hospitals are overloaded and chosen a little more carefully to admit to the hospital. They also have an impact. For example, if we limit the spread of infection among young people, it is such a long and complex process that it is very difficult to put it exactly into a mathematical model. We know that if infection grows among schoolchildren, then, say, a week later we will already see an increase in infection in the generation of schoolchildren's parents, just aged 35 to 55, and from there we will also see an increase in infection among the real elderly. All these processes together lead to what we see in the hospital. But to model them all so precisely because the connections aren't one-to-one, there's a lot of randomness inside, is, I would say, virtually impossible. We will do our best to show you where things can go if there are specific links. But you can never give guarantees in a situation like this. Yes, it should be taken into account that there is random variation and all models apply when the assumptions made in the model are valid. These are always the terms that if A is true, then B, let's say so, and it also comes with a certain variation, not exactly.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U144	Thank you, Mr Fischer, for your excellent presentation and very constructive answers. I'm sorry we asked you a lot more and more. But the interest of the members of the Riigikogu was really very great and everyone is very grateful for their very good answers and information. Thank you! Helmen Hunter, is there a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U145	I would very much like to congratulate and thank the President of the Riigikogu, who took such a decision and gave the ambassadors who had registered an opportunity to ask their questions. This was a very reasonable, humane and excellent example that, if there is interest, the Chairman of the Riigikogu will be able to resolve the situation in this way. So thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U146	Thank you. I hope that, as we have an hour to go, in the negotiations, looking at those who are currently registered, everyone will be able to make their presentations and speeches. But let's go to the negotiations. First, please, Lauri West Forest! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U147	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Much has been said about how much restrictions on entrepreneurship and people's activities should be imposed and what it will cost. Are restrictions paying off because of the threat to the economy? This question has been particularly asked by the government led by Prime Minister Kallas, who, despite the recommendations of scientists, began to relax the restrictions when taking office. In retrospect, they call it the harmonisation of restrictions. By now, however, we have the answer. Stretching and indecisiveness have made the economy and the country harder. The costs we bear today in the event of a high infection are significantly higher than the benefits that would have taken if the restrictions had been implemented in due time. At a time when the economies of other countries will be freed and revived in the heat of summer, Estonia will be locked. Today we know that, as a result of the wrong decisions, we have lost an important advantage in getting out of this crisis. If we had kept the infection low, we would not have feared, as a society, to compensate for all of this, we would not have the problem that instead of restard, the companies have been jerked off and the people's wallets are empty. Although both governments have read money, the current government is doing so especially hard and diligently. The only problem is that there is never an attempt to read the money in people's wallets, or rather, to see if there is anything left. If we look at what characterises the government's measures to ensure entrepreneurship and people's livelihoods in this crisis, we will see wage subsidies, subsidies and loans to companies. Perhaps this is all that will help, above all, to keep entrepreneurship, yes, also jobs. But when we look at those people who have already lost their jobs or whose incomes have dried up, there is nothing there. For a long time we have been waiting for an extension of the promised period of unemployment benefit, because thousands and thousands of people have reached the point that they will no longer be paid insurance money, they have fallen on their livelihood. For a long time, we have been looking forward to an exceptional increase in income support. But, unfortunately, nothing. If we want people to abide by the restrictions, we must also create opportunities for them. It is important to understand that, in the case of many people, the issue is not that they do not want to comply with restrictions, but that they cannot comply with restrictions. The family needs to be fed, utilities need to be paid, loans need to be serviced, and that has to be done somehow. At the same time, whether or not humans can adhere to restrictions has a significant impact on infection. The Social Democrats have submitted a proposal to compensate for sick days from day one and one hundred percent if this concerns the emergency situation with regard to the COVID virus. This is because when a person has to stay in isolation at home, for example for two weeks, he loses 40% of his salary, i.e. 40% of his salary for two weeks. When we think about incomes that are 600, 700, 800 euros carried by many people in Estonia, 100 euros or more of wages is a very important amount. You simply cannot, even if you would like, do what the Prime Minister asks, what we all ask, what officials ask, to stay home, to avoid contact. Unfortunately, people can't do that. Supporting businesses and talking about invisible victims here is right, but there are, in fact, very few unseen restrictions. The exact target that the wage subsidy is intended to provide is not working. For example, if you close the construction shops, where will smaller construction companies buy materials and necessary supplies? They can't do their job. Are they going to be reimbursed? Or if we advise people to stay at home, certain services, which maybe are not cutting hair, but something else, cannot be provided because people simply do not show up. The income of these companies is also dwindling, but their activities may not be covered by this EAMTAK code. They're missing out. I know why they don't want to make a salary allowance like it was in the spring. Because the state does not really want to put its money in an unemployment fund. So far, we have spent more than 250 million employers' and employees' insurance money. Now it's where the country could finally start to contribute, but they don't want to do it. And if this is not the case, of course, there are so few reserves available at the unemployment fund that it is no longer possible to make the wage subsidies that Estonia needs. There are also many people who have not lost their jobs legally. They still have a job, they still have a job, but their incomes have fallen below the level of subsistence. These people are really hard to look for. But they need to be noticed. They're somebody's moms and dads, some family-eaters, and some people who care about it. On behalf of the Socialists, I would like to say that if the government and the Riigikogu are planning these measures, we could assume that those who have lost their jobs or become in a difficult situation in terms of income and precisely because of saving the lives of other people should not be left alone in this crisis. This weight must not remain on their shoulders, but we must bear it together as a society. Let's not just count money, let's count human lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U148	Evgeny Ossinovski, please! How? I'm sorry! The representatives of the political groups, however, first, yes, as the order and practice dictates. On behalf of the Group of Helir-Valdor Seeder Isamaa. Jevgeni Ossinovski will be on hold for a while. Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U149	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, The biggest problem in Estonia at the moment is undoubtedly to reject and overcome the corona virus. I believe that we are all in agreement here, and this is not about the coalition, the opposition or the various political parties. However, we do see the situation somewhat differently, also in terms of solutions and solutions, in different ways. We certainly do not have to look for those responsible here, but we have to look for solutions. But solutions can be found and implemented when we adequately assess the situation and can orient ourselves, for what and where there is a reason, and what and where the result is. Regrettably, I must admit that neither the government nor the Prime Minister adequately evaluates the situation, that their threat assessment remains inadequate and that the measures taken are delayed, that the crisis management is beneath all accounts. Publicity and communication with the public, information to the parties involved is terribly poor. Why am I saying that the situation continues not to be adequately assessed? This is because the Prime Minister continues to say that the decisions taken by the current government at the end of January to alleviate the restrictions were correct. He says first of all that the reliefs were not relaxation, but harmonisation, which is not right. It was a wrong decision to relax the restrictions on Ida-Virumaa and Harjumaa. This has been subsequently assessed by the Head of the Health Board and several experts who have also said that it was a wrong decision. But the Prime Minister continues to say that this was not the wrong decision. Even today, if we are not able to adequately assess the situation and assess the decisions we have taken in the recent past correctly, there is little hope that the subsequent decisions will be adequate. So that was my argument. And that is very regrettable. The result is the epidemic situation that we currently have, the deterioration of health care arrangements, confusion and ignorance of vaccination. There has been an enormous amount of confusion in support measures for entrepreneurship and in imposing restrictions. Their implementation has been systemless and anarchical. Just one example of a substitute activity, but also indecisiveness: if three changes are made to the opening hours of catering establishments within one month at 10:00, 9:00 and 6:00, it shows that there is no courage to make clear, bold, adequate decisions. Something like that has to be decided, and then those decisions are formally made. The proposals of the Scientific Advisory Board have not been taken into account at the right time and on the right scale. There's a lot of confusion about vaccination. I am here to quote very briefly the statements of family doctors that, for some reason, it always happens that the vaccine could not be ordered by the right family doctors, at the right time or in the right place. Instead of bringing the necessary solutions to the family doctors and finally agreeing on some sort of logistics system for supplying normal working coronal vaccines, the finger will be pointed to the family doctors. The logistics of vaccination is uncritical and the vaccine is low. How, then, can it help to speed up vaccination by public bodies drawing up their own lists and taking their own initiatives on common sense rather than encouraging patients to be vaccinated near home? It is the case that there is confusion in the drawing up of lists and that the level of vaccination is uneven across regions. To get an overview of the rate, target groups and content of vaccination, this is done today, as we have learned, also by collecting information by hand. This will not contribute in any way to the implementation of operational solutions. Time is one of the most important factors in resolving the crisis. We're losing time in a situation of manual work and management crisis like this. I want to get to the point that I described this process, but in itself it is not the solution if we all stick to describing the process. Why did I do it for so long? It is precisely in order to point out that the biggest problem at present in resolving the crisis is the management crisis in itself. There is no clear chain of management that decides what, how the division of labour is done, who is responsible for what. It's not there. I am not a supporter of the imposition of an emergency situation, but today I am forced to accept this proposal. This is the result of a management crisis. This is one of the options.. and it seems to be the only way to organise the management chain so that it becomes operational, with a clear chain of decision-making, management, division of labour and responsibility. We can't lose time. It is also important to involve Parliament here, the Riigikogu. There are problems with public information. It took us a week to complain about the Prime Minister's willingness to come before the Riigikogu to provide operational information and answer questions from members of the Riigikogu. A week in a crisis! It took us as long or more time for the factual information to start moving between the Riigikogu and the government and finally to operate in such a way that there would be no AK mark, that is, it would also be transferable and distributed, so that we could all understand in the same way what restrictions are imposed, how they are intended to be compensated for by business and how compensation is to be paid to employees, etc. This information, not that it can't, it shouldn't be with the AK badges. We should use that bandage. So cooperation between the government and Parliament, cooperation between the Prime Minister and Parliament is extremely important. I very much hope that, out of the mistakes of the recent past, both the government, the Minister for Social Affairs and the Prime Minister have learned, they are willing to cooperate and are willing to admit that, in addition to the health crisis, we have also had a management crisis that needs to be resolved urgently. I hope that today's debate has contributed to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U150	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Imre Sooäär Centre Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U151	Thank you, Mr President. Five plus three minutes, too, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U152	Please! Three minutes extra.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U153	Honourable Riigikogu! Today, we are in a situation where the restrictions imposed have not slowed down the spread of the corona virus, which is why we need to move forward with very clear and firm steps to put an end to the crisis. A year ago, on the night of March 12, the government led by Jüri Ratas declared a state of emergency because of the spread of the corona virus and imposed restrictions that significantly changed the way we all live. Yes, it was a difficult burden for society, but it did help limit the rate of infection. By the summer, there was a situation in Estonia where life was practically comparable as before the corona crisis. At the same time, most of the world's great powers were still closed and the restrictions there were many times stricter than we did. The emergency situation in Estonia was able to prevent the decisions taken by Prime Minister Ratas in the swift management of the crisis by the head of the epidemiological disaster and emergency situation, and the opposition was remembered at that time. Today we are facing a situation that is extremely time-critical, many times worse than last spring, and there is no reason to be afraid of declaring an emergency situation. We all have a huge responsibility for what happens next. Introducing an emergency situation would give society a very clear and clear message that would be unambiguous for all people. This message is very simple. We all need to make an effort, to be isolated, to comply with the rules, but it simply does not work out without an emergency, because a society that is tired of the crisis is not sufficiently aware of the gravity of the situation. It's more of a short emergency than a long wave. It's like we have an emergency, but it's not. It's not a reliable signal or a clear signal. The Estonian people want to feel the support of the state in combating the virus, and the emergency situation would give a sufficiently clear signal. The necessity of an emergency situation is also confirmed by the fact that it creates an opportunity to appoint a crisis leader and those responsible, who do not necessarily have to be from the government at all. The crisis should be managed by professional crisis leaders, not by politician ministers whose duty is to lead the country. Everyone remembers what a positive signal Dr. Popov's involvement as a professional medical director or experienced crisis manager Mati Raidma's work in Kuressaare gave. In today's critical situation, it is time to take significantly faster steps than has been the case so far, because every day there are fewer working hands in all companies, both private and public, not to mention the missing workforce in the medical sector. In addition, we must bear in mind that patients in need of scheduled treatment will not be hospitalised. The quality of life of these people falls rapidly without treatment, and some of them run the risk of losing their lives. We must maintain public health, but on the other hand we must help people and businesses to cope with the current crisis. Both represent a significant increase in the cost of the State. It is time to take full control of the situation and, in addition to imposing an emergency situation, to adopt an additional budget without delay. The additional budget adopted by the Government of Jüri Ratas last spring brought additional costs to the country of over 2.2 billion. Let me remind you that former Prime Minister Siim Kallas was talking about 10 billion. I fully agree with Mr Kallas. Why, then, are we cheap and not helping our businesses and people enough? In the tourism sector, Estonia has already lost over a billion. By comparison, an example from France. On 14 May 2020, President Macron announced an emergency rescue package for the French tourism sector of EUR 18 billion. This amounts to EUR 265 per capita in France. In Estonia, the government's crisis aid to the affected tourism sector had been around 30 million euros last year, or just 23 euros per capita. The difference is more than 11 times that, although GDP per capita is only twice the difference between our countries. This means that Estonia regrettably supports little of its affected sectors, which will lead to a decline in our competitiveness in the coming years. In other words, France, with the support of the state, will keep its companies alive, but Estonia will let the companies go bankrupt if we continue to do so and do not find any extra money. The crisis that has lasted for a year has tested the lives of both the economy and the Estonian people. In times of crisis, we cannot talk about the structural balance of the budget. We could forget about this mysterious word compound for a long time. It was precisely because of the burden of groaning the balance of this budget that took us ten years to get out of the last financial crisis in 2008. At the same time, the rest of Europe took a strong loan and built up infrastructure. It is embarrassing that Estonia has not even been able to build four-way main roads to Tartu, Narva and Latvia in three decades after regaining independence. During the crisis of the European century, we must protect not only the vital sectors of our economy, but also our workers and entrepreneurs. The crisis that has been going on for a year has hit many economic sectors and cultural and entertainment sectors very hard. Certainly, in such a situation, the state should not limit itself to wage support, but should help to keep and create jobs, while also covering the inevitable fixed costs of businesses and creative people. If the state does not cover these costs, we will soon have no more companies to re-hire more than 60,000 unemployed in this case. Large financial difficulties also threaten other areas, including those that have been able to continue their work during the corona virus but have faced unprecedented low turnover. There are many firms in need who do not qualify for different aid measures but continue to need support. We are seeing a deepening of the crisis at the moment, which means that we will no longer be able to come out of it without additional resources. In the supplementary budget, it is also important to support local authorities as their declining income base reduces the necessary support for the population. Municipalities are the closest to people and their concerns, playing a very important role in our social system. It is therefore essential for the State to provide local authorities with the necessary revenue base in an additional budget so that they can have sufficient additional resources for statutory tasks and for the provision of different public services. To this end, the additional budget will have to be completed in March, so that people and businesses, cities and municipalities can receive assistance by the beginning of April at the latest. All of this is an input to today's Prime Minister and Government to put in place an emergency situation in the Republic and to adopt an additional budget without delay. The speed of our economic recovery depends, on the one hand, on how long the current restrictions on preventing the corona virus will last, but on the other hand, it is very important to maintain the viability of our companies and the daily incomes of our people so that Estonia can regain its strength. The fact that people affected by the crisis lose their jobs and hope, which will result in an increase in the number of young suicides, does not make Estonia stronger. The state must come here to help in every area, including with the help of people's souls. I sincerely hope that this crisis will eventually unite, not divide Estonian society. Finally, on behalf of the central group, although we are physically separate today, it is very important that we stick together spiritually as a nation and care for each other and support each other more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U154	Next, I would like to ask for a speech chair on behalf of the Group of the Sim Kallas Reform Party. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U155	Dear Chairman, I'll ask for three more minutes. I promise I'll stay within eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U156	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U157	Honourable colleagues! It was quite good to hear the speech of my colleague, Mr Seder. I just got really familiar with it, I thought the previous opposition was talking about the same thing during the spring crisis. A few years ago, a completely unknown virus has conquered the world. This virus has claimed 2.6 million lives, and according to the World Health Organisation's operative map, a country where the virus has not claimed victims does not exist. Although, after every crisis, oracles appear who long ago knew what was going to happen, no country could foresee it or prepare for it. It is now a matter of more or less effective combating the consequences. Governments are forced to shut down societies, people are forced to suffer any inconvenience. What can you do to get rid of this scourge? I remember a cartoon since the restoration of Estonia's independence. It depicted a board-loaded Kalevipoeg attacked by warlocks. The whole neighborhood was full of hedgehogs giving advice. Hit the serve, hit the patch, hit it straight, don't hit it at all! Why do you even bring those tables and who do they go to? I believe most in my good colleague Professor Hele Everaus, whose scientific assessment of the virus's behavior is that nobody really knows anything. We listened here to Professor Fischer's excellent presentation, which confirmed the same: there is no precise mathematical model, which would say that, for example, closing 60% of school classes reduces the number of patients in hospitals by 20%. Professor Fischer also confirmed that there is no definitive linear correlation. No commander will ever have enough time, information, or resources to decide. It's an ancient military science fact. Therefore, all decisions are necessarily subjective within certain limits. Subjective is our faith, including my belief that the complete closure of society will reverse the spread of infection. But we believe and hope. Decisions and resources must be put in place to deal with each crisis. When a volcano in Iceland closed down all air traffic in Europe in 2010, the hot point was not to bring the ash back into the volcano, but to restore the air traffic under the conditions of operation of the volcano. Today, our hotspot is the ability of hospitals to treat viral patients. The whole medical sector is under enormous pressure. The virus infects and demands victims among our loved ones, in all age groups, in all levels of society. However, the viral crisis, as a whole, strikes different groups of society in different ways. Not everyone suffers the same. In particular, families with school children suffer from education as a whole and suffer from small entrepreneurship, tourism, restaurants, service, hotels, transport. In the public sector, wages are paid on a regular basis, but some of the private business has been left with no income. However, some sectors of the economy have rather won in this crisis. With this in mind, it is perfectly understandable that both the current government and the previous government are trying to keep society open for as much as possible and for as long as possible. It has been a conscious policy, not a stretch or indecisiveness. I understand the opposition that is using the difficulties it has faced to improve its position and increase its support. Each opposition tries to show that it is more capable, smarter, more foresighted than a sedentary government. It's a matter of how credible it seems when you look at it from the outside. We're all in this big mess that's hit us. Government bans and orders are not a miracle tool to get us out of this mess. We all come out together when we work together. The health system is fighting on the edge of survival today. It cannot be overlooked that the virus crisis has shown us that our medicine and healthcare need more flexibility and reserves, both in terms of people and in terms of the material base, as well as a better model for financing health care, in order to cope with the unexpected future. You can be sure that vaccination will lead to a reduction in disease. Today we're mobilizing to reverse the attack on the virus. Tomorrow we must mobilize to overcome the consequences of the corona crisis. The recovery of hard-hit entrepreneurship, the recovery of tourism, the reopening of restaurants and services are vital. Overcoming the educational deficit is vital. During the Soviet era, the initiative had to be subject to state authority's permission. Overcoming the virus crisis does not depend on government orders and prohibitions, but on society's entrepreneurial spirit, initiative and responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U158	Thank you. On behalf of the EKRE Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U159	Hello!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U160	Hello! Hello! We hear good.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U161	Yeah, do you hear that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U162	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U163	Hello!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U164	We can hear you very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U165	Can't you hear me? Yeah, I'm sorry about the mess. There's been some problems. If you hear it, I'll start.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U166	Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U167	You hear that? [[They say yes in the hall.]] Hello?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U168	I can hear you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U169	This week has been extraordinary. On Monday, 1,181 new corona positives were added, today, just three days later, in 1957. Rise in four days, 776. And another thing: for the second time this week, we are discussing the fight against the corona as a key national issue. Yeah, we've ripped off the world's first countries, we're at the corona epicenter. I have two talks in my mind about the two key national issues of this week. The first was the speech by Dr Elle-Mall Sadraku, the representative of family doctors, who painted an honest picture of the conditions under which our good family doctors operate. Communication is totally limping. Instead of sending cars for Pfizer's vaccine, the Estonian or Health Board will be sending them to Estonia for 72 hours before they get here, digital registration is limping, vaccines are coming, as God directs, many family doctors would like to act on weekends, but there is no chance, there is no vaccine. And the second speech has been made today by academician Krista Fischer. A very high incidence of infection is seen among young people, among those aged 15 to 19, aged 20 to 24, aged 35 to 39, but they are the ones who sow [the virus]. And that the worst time lies ahead, the second half of March. And excess mortality. What else? What did we learn today from the words of Urmas Reinsalu, Head of the Special Committee on State Budget Control? In fact, the current Prime Minister has been dragging in on events all the time. The decisions and recommendations of the Scientific Advisory Board have been implemented selectively and mostly later. I would like to remind you that it was only when we were here trying without success to get the Prime Minister to report to the Riigikogu on the plan of the Estonian Government to fight the Corona. This matter became completely absurd when the Prime Minister did not even consider it necessary to answer the speeches and messages of the President of the Riigikogu. What's to come from all this? There have been many voices about the imposition of an emergency situation. Minister of Health Kiik said today that it is not really necessary, and [this has been said] by the Prime Minister. The current restrictions have really started to work in some places, with a lot of masks being worn lately. I don't appreciate it. At the same time, Academician Fischer has argued that two weeks of lockdown would suffice and that the spread of the virus would fall significantly and that the damage to the economy would not be significant either.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U170	Would the waitress like an extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U171	But one point is that the attitude of Estonians and Russians towards the corona struggle has been quite different. Perhaps imposing an emergency situation for the Russian population would mean greater authority and would be a good idea. So I hope that, as a result of these two discussions, society will be more aware of this issue and we will be able to fight the corona more successfully. At first, unfortunately, we have been dragging things along and avoiding right decisions at the right time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U172	Thank you. Next, I'd like to ask for a speech chair from Jevgeni Ossinovski. Here you go. Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U173	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Estonian health care system is in an unprecedented crisis and Estonia is about to reach the top of the European Union with corona numbers, but actually also the world. In this context, it is undoubtedly extremely important to analyse and answer the question of why and how we came to this. Not to judge who is responsible for this, but to understand these dynamics, the decisions that have been taken so far, we could learn from them for the future, because, as we have seen from today's reports, this epidemic will not soon end for our society. Krista Fischer couldn't show the schedule. One of his graphs I'll show you, here are the numbers of the infected in the week since the beginning of the second wave of last year. Today we have 10,000 infected per week. We can see from here in January when there were 4,000 infected, and in November when it was 2000. This is what has actually happened. We heard here today and we have heard, as always, from this government and from the previous government, such an answer to the criticism that could best be summed up by a proverb once said by Enn Kasak from the South Estonian, which I heard in a lecture at the University of Tartu, that if I had known that I would fall here, I would have put hay under it. But the problem is, we knew, but we didn't. During the first wave, it could indeed be said that yes, the virus is new, we have no precise knowledge. Some restrictions were over the shaft, some things were not done, no information, etc. It was spring, a year ago. When we entered the second wave, we actually had all the controls in place to make adequate decisions and to be in the same place as Finland today. There is no objective reason why we are not there today, except that we have made either the wrong decisions or the right decisions at the wrong time. Let's take a moment. In Ida-Virumaa, the corona virus began to spread in workplace sites. With regard to compensation for the first sick days, the Health Board said that work stations are spreading, so do it, friends, so that people can stay home. A person earning average wages lost 100 euros a week when he stayed home with corona or suspicion of corona. Of course, a lot of people didn't do it because they couldn't afford it. We will take these same restrictions from November, when the scientific council said that Christmas would be a lost cause if the restrictions were not applied. Unfortunately, exactly what has happened from 26 January until Monday of the week, when the tail was plucked three times, was done inadequately, actually after the drag. The result is that in December, tough decisions still had to be made, in the meantime there were very serious damage, the plateau of the virus rose very high. Exactly the same mistake we had two months later with the new government, and there is really no justification for it. One very clear conclusion that can be drawn from this crisis is that delaying the necessary decisions will lead to the spread of infection and the need for much tougher implementation of the same decisions later and at much higher costs. It's been like this everywhere, it's been like this, and we're seeing it happening right here. Health effects. We've got ambulances standing in line in front of the ER. Come on, help me in heaven that something like this could happen in Estonian society! We saw it in Bergamo last spring, when there really was no testing system, there was sleep, etc. We all knew and saw it coming, those same projections showed it. And we've let this happen! How is that possible? I've already told you about the deaths. Mr Kallas said that the biggest victims are families with children and small businesses. The greatest sufferers, dear Mr Kallas, are those old people who have died or have suffered very seriously. Since 26 January, when the new government came into office, 288 people have already died, 700 of whom have begun the epidemic. These are the people that the country has a duty to protect, because they themselves are the most vulnerable in not spreading the disease themselves, acting responsibly, but getting sick and many of them dying. They're the ones who've suffered the most. And we will see in the coming weeks, already today, in fact, that these people are sick, who are likely to lead to a very significant increase in mortality. For what, then, have these decisions been postponed, provided that it has not been done simply out of complete failure or misunderstanding? It has been said that the economy must be protected. But has anyone really assessed analytically in Estonia whether it is more beneficial for the economy to have long-term restrictions, to have people stuck at home in close contact, to have sick people, to have such incomplete restrictions all the time for half a year in a row, and to have one big swing, compared to a situation where tougher restrictions are being made in a shorter time, to quickly get it under control and to be able to return to the normal society? We have seen that this can be done. We saw it last spring. The Finnish Government, for example, commissioned such a study from its scientists in December and concluded precisely that in December it would be possible to make stricter restrictions in order to return to normal life from January. We don't have that kind of work done. But yesterday, economic analysts reached a similar position in Estonia on this endless wink, especially now that we are starting to see it in comparison with other European countries, who are starting to open up, where the infection with the harsher restrictions is down, we are a red towel throughout the European Union. Protecting the economy. Half a billion euros, another extra budget, because we have actually lost the virus situation. All the measures that need to be taken, additional sick days, business grants, all the other things, are now more expensive in repetition and repetition, because we have lost the epidemic. I have repeatedly said that the best protection against the socio-economic crisis is to get the health crisis under control. Then there is no need for these massive grants of EUR 100 million, but this has been allowed to happen. What happens next? The coming weeks, but probably longer, will be a very, very difficult time for Estonian society. I think it is also appropriate to apologise in addition to the need for our medical staff to have a great deal of strength in the fight against the influx of the sick that awaits them. Apologize to our medical staff that we have laid such a heavy burden on them as Estonian society that our leaders, our country, have not made adequate decisions to control the epidemic, and they are carrying this burden. I have told the people of Estonia several times, and I repeat once again that this is actually much more serious than the disquieting messages and decisions of the government appear. Let's take this seriously, please! Let's take our contacts to zero, not a little bit where we can, if possible like this, but take our contacts to zero. We'll stay home for the next month, work this out, despite the failure of our rulers to control this epidemic. We can do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U174	Thank you. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U175	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, A lot of aspects have already been through here. I'm trying to build [my speech] on it, but briefly, what's the emergency? What is needed to resolve the crisis is, in fact, empathy. It's not an emergency that solves any crisis, it's empathy that solves it. Of course, one might ask, " What are we going to talk about? ' Empathy is understanding, and if you do not understand the situation, it is very difficult to resolve it, whether it is a special situation or some other situation. Our objective situation: the rate of infection growth, the rate of hospital discharge, obstacles to scheduled treatment, daily deaths, a period of lingering restrictions. This objective description of the situation really only leads to one conclusion: we have not been able to cope well with the health crisis. Yes, this government has failed in less than two months. But the previous government, unlike Helir-Valdor Seeder and Urmas Reinsalu, did not do better, just the base of the infections was lower. Reinsalu's argument as to how there are significant differences in the management handwriting, after all, is not a criminal. We see a pattern very similar to that of two governments: a plan, a clear lack of purpose, confused communication, a desire to make popular decisions, show ourselves in the face of the crisis, a race to make Facebook posts, to publish new information, and for hours dealing with details such as opening hours, school days, doors opening in the street or in the lobby. In fact, they are unable to bind the people to overcome this crisis together. Diagnosis: a lack of statesmanship and a lot of party politics. One of the very words that have sounded like an objective has been that we need to avoid overburdening the health care system. But as Evgeny said, in fact, we have not been able to protect the health system, we have not been able to achieve this objective. And now, from the beginning of the year, it still sounds like we're trying to avoid overload, here's some more beds. Yeah, we may have these couple of free beds, but the idea that these people around the beds have been working in awkward protective gear, costume, mask, under pressure, they've been in isolation and doing night shifts, and we can't tell them when it's over, how do you motivate them to come to work, how do you tell them that you have to carry the load that we can't avoid in any other way? Next on the messages. It is irrational that not all are crisis leaders, that people live their lives. Some here are virology enthusiasts, monitors numbers, keeps up-to-date, and maybe knows better than the government that needs to be done. But most people don't. Our attitudes are different, our confidence in the government is different, so the press conference is not enough. The government is responsible for getting information, understanding it, and translating it into changing its behaviour. It's a very complicated, conscious effort. And this is known by everyone who has dealt with prevention, public health or, for example, road safety. It is very difficult to achieve a change in the behaviour of the people, especially in a situation where, as Mr Kallas has already quoted, we do not know anything. We really do not know exactly what will happen to this crisis. There is a lot of uncertainty in the crisis, a lot of ignorance about what we are spreading, how quickly, who is having a hard time. But in such a state of anxiety and stress, it is the government that should actually create certainty. The government must create an understanding of how it will lead us through this crisis. And if it doesn't reach that height, it has to give at least an understandable message, which is what you have to do, what you expect to do. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U176	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U177	Siim Kallas said that overcoming the virus does not really depend on government orders or prohibitions, but on the entrepreneurship of people, for example. As far as compliance with the restrictions is concerned, tomorrow will be the year of the announcement of the emergency situation. During the course of this year, people have all learned these permanent-avoidance rules and a large part follows them. But even in circumstances where proper conduct is known, a person may not follow these rules. Not because he's bad or enterprising, or because he wants to spread the infection, but because all other choices are very difficult for him, all other choices mean loss. Lauri spoke well about compensation for sick days, how a low - paying person cannot afford to lose such income. But we haven't talked enough, I think, about the burden on employers. If people with a positive test result and close contacts are at home, the employer needs to find a replacement and, at the same time, pay people sick money to stay at home. Such a double burden should be borne by the government in times of crisis. Now for the latest message that people are responsible. Of course, we're responsible, and we're sick too. But in the case of the corona virus, the question arises as to how these elderly people will be responsible. Just with your life? What if this disease hits a disproportionate number of children, redheads, right-handed? So, as a society, would we be better able to help because this suffering target group is more sympathetic and valuable to us? This self-responsibility also gives rise to uncertainty in the sense that, from 26 January to the end of April, we are responsible ourselves, but from May, when vaccination must be available to everyone, we cannot decide for ourselves and take responsibility for ourselves, but the government says that everyone must vaccinate. Of course, vaccination is an effective and easy way to prevent a serious disease and limit the spread of infection. We want all people to be vaccinated. But do we delegate responsibility to the government on 1 May and, until then, are we responsible ourselves? How can we do such a communicative trick so that people can understand when it's on their shoulders and when the government will take that burden away? Now for the economy. After all, economists talk about zombie companies in the context of crisis measures, for example, a very large number of catering companies would not survive for two years anyway. There are companies that will survive, and there are companies that will survive and continue to operate even after the crisis with support, guarantee or loan, but who would not actually contribute to our economy anymore. Undoubtedly, in order for companies to be able to provide liquidity, to survive the crisis, the state must provide them with financial instruments, these are guarantees, guarantees or certain loan instruments. But we have said less about the fact that if a company could go bankrupt and not come out of this crisis, people will have to survive this crisis. We can't write people off. And lastly, the use of opportunities.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U178	Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U179	We are saying that it has been very difficult to tackle this crisis and will take away all energy. Undoubtedly, the choices we make have an impact on the future. Whether it concerns vaccination, its rapid delivery, digital learning tools or other solutions that we are creating, we could use this opportunity to make people more willing to contribute, come together, the private sector would be prepared to think along in order to create solutions that will carry us forward even after the crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U180	Thank you, Riina! Time's up. Thank you! Tarmo Kruusimäe, two minutes from position, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U181	Thank you, good Chairman! I see we've reached phase three undetected, which is looking for the guilty. The fourth is the punishment of innocents, and the fifth is the commendation of bystanders. We've had worse and harder times. If people know what they should do and that the government and Parliament are in solidarity with them, then we have seen worse and better times, and we will all survive this together. You have to talk to your people, the messages need to be clear. There is a good idea in the Defence Forces: an officer never downgrades an assignment he can't handle on his own. Very confusing communication will distance the people from us. That's why I'm calling: all communications gourds, come help. In the current situation, we need to talk to our own people, not look for guilty people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U182	Thank you. Leo Kunnas also has a short line in place. He's still coming. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U183	I will continue where Mr Evgeni graduated, and I will use the same schedule. Last spring, when the previous government acted decisively and Jüri Ratas took on the role of emergency leader, and was able to cope with this situation, I would say that the grade was four, strong for the grade. But in the autumn, in the weeks 42 to 44, when the numbers began to rise again, the emergency situation was not announced and the way of collective responsibility was followed. Those who advocated lighter and stricter restrictions argued among themselves, no consensus was reached, and the numbers jumped up, and they reached a certain plateau by 50 weeks. But, of course, when there was a change of government - the old government went on the second week and the new one came on the fourth - this interregnum did not promote the positive development of the situation. But now we're on a serious jump. The question is, what are these criteria now, when should the new government declare a state of emergency? Is that 2,500 infected a day, 3,000 infected a day, 15 deaths a day, 20 deaths a day? Mrs Fischer reminded us that 42 people die a day in Estonia. I have a serious suggestion: Madam Prime Minister, declare the emergency situation, become your own leader of the emergency situation or delegate this role to someone else. If the crisis is serious enough, collective governance will not work very well. Five generals or ten generals can't effectively lead military action if the situation is awkward. And she's awful. Therefore, consider what the criteria are when it is needed. I think the situation is already here. Come on! That's all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-11_U184	Thank you. I thank all the waitresses today, especially academician Krista Fischer. I thank all those who asked, and I thank all my colleagues who took the floor and whose presentations and speeches were all very constructive and relevant. So thank you. I hope that together we can overcome this great crisis and the unprecedented challenge. That concludes today's debate. Have a nice day and be negative!
