ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-28_U1	Honourable colleagues! We will begin the 3rd working week Thursday session of the plenary session of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-28_U2	First of all, the official oath of the member of the Riigikogu Sulev Kannimäe. Due to the resignation of Maido Ruusmann, member of the Riigikogu, an alternate member of the Riigikogu will join Sulev Kannimäe. Next, his oath. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-28_U3	Taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu as a member of the XIV Riigikogu, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-28_U4	There. Now is the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-28_U5	Honourable representative of the people! During this critical health crisis, the representative population must offer full support to the new government that has taken up office. My point is that we in this Parliament should have a serious debate and listen to the report by the Minister for Health on the vaccination schedule or the vaccination plan at all and give an overview of the state of play. Look at my vision of parliamentarianism. Parliament is working on the rules, and it is also dealing with important issues. I believe that we have no doubt that the most important issue in Estonia is, at least during this semester, an effective, fair, transparent and impartial vaccination action plan and its implementation. In full, we must have the possibility that the groups of ambassadors can present their own approach, which is lacking in the vaccination plan, the preferred groups, the way in which it is most effective to seek maximum access to vaccines in the European Union's joint procurement or other means. And in order for this presentation to be made in plenary and for the debate to take place at an informed, highly professional level, I have asked the Minister for Health a number of requests for information about various documents. I can assure you that once I have received these documents, I will be ready to share them with all members of the National Council and the groups of ambassadors in order to create additional legitimacy for the vaccination programme to the Government of the Republic and the Minister of Health, who is responsible for this important critical piece of work. Good luck preparing this possible presentation for all of us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-28_U6	It was an inquiry. There is no further request for the transfer of draft laws and enquiries. I have accepted an inquiry on behalf of the board, and now I have an announcement. Due to changes in the government coalition and in the Riigikogu, I resign from the second Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. New time, new people. I am sorry to leave the office where you will always be approached first with the words 'honoured','respected' and so on. Now no one in the hallway is gonna do that. But such a change and such a statement. Now, presence control, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-28_U7	90 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 11. And I can only thank all those who signed up and showed up because we have no points on the agenda today and our hearing is closed.
