ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U1	Honourable Riigikogu and members of the government! Let's start our three-day briefing. First, we'll check who's in. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U2	39 members of the Riigikogu are present, 62 are absent. The following members of the government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, Minister for Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse and Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Taavi Aas. Tavi Aas will be participating in us online today. As always, the members of the pre-registered Riigikogu will first be able to ask the members of the Riigikogu, they will also become a question specifying the right, and then one more question from the hall. There are two minutes to ask the question and three minutes to reply.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U3	Today's first question is asked by Indrek Saar and answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U4	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister! I am still asking about this most topical issue, the health crisis. Last year, the Riigikogu had various debates and discussions on health crisis issues. And at the end of last year, you have said, among other things, in the Riigikogu that the coronal outbreak that started in autumn is now out of control and Estonia needs a plan for the next few months to break the corona infection curve and then keep the virus at such a level that the most necessary services in society can be kept open. We know that the infection rates have not improved in that time. Unfortunately, the last week's wastewater monitoring survey shows that we have reason to fear that the situation could deteriorate dramatically compared to the level where the infection rates have been for the last few months. In this context, my question is, how and when and in what form this plan should be completed, because I understand that this new plan has not been presented to society by this government. I'm sure you've thought about it, and I'm sure you have a work plan for it, but please, would you also enlighten us on when and in what form this plan will be completed?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U5	Thank you for that question. First of all, really, you're right that these numbers are getting worse. Today's data is that 798 positive tests were performed and we have 449 patients in hospital care, 15 of which are controlled by breathing. All the numbers show that the situation is not good at all. Now, the bad news is that, according to research, people's perception of danger has gone down at the same time, so people don't really feel that danger is so great. And when people do not feel that this danger is great, they do not behave responsibly, wear masks indoors, and have more contact with other people. At the same time, scientists say that the best way to control the virus is to control self-discipline, that we stay away from each other and that the virus is not transmitted. Of course, we discuss this health crisis in the government every week, even twice every week, on Tuesday and Thursday. World practice shows that turning on restrictions works when you shut everything down completely. But it also has the other side, and that other side is the invisible victims we don't really see, who lose their jobs, who have mental health problems, and so on. If completely restricted, it is possible to get these numbers down for a moment, but as soon as everything is opened, the numbers go up again, precisely because people are not acting responsibly. What's the message? The message is, in fact, for everyone, including business organisations and schools, so that, in order for us to be able to control these numbers, people themselves must adhere more to the simple recommendations that have been made. As I said, the sense of danger has gone down, people are tired of the crisis, they are tired of restrictions and therefore they are not following them. Yet it's the only way to get the numbers down. This is also demonstrated, for example, by Finnish practice, where numbers are much better than we do.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U6	Indrek Saar, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U7	Yeah, but I'd still come back to that. I've been quoting you because you've asked for a very clear plan. That people should behave responsibly and the concern is that the sense of danger has gone down is all understandable and also important to draw attention to. But I'm coming back to the fact that nothing's gotten better, or by quoting you, it's actually out of control. If we proceed from this, when and how do we come to such a plan that society understands it? You were referring to Finland. Perhaps one of the important reasons why in Finland infection rates have been significantly lower for a long time than in Estonia is that Finland clearly discussed in society what these indicators are, on the basis of which restrictions will be imposed at all, and how regional restrictions will be made. Different scenarios were made, time was taken for society to understand it, accept it and behaved accordingly. But it meant a plan. It meant the same plan you've been asking the previous government. I'm asking you because it's your government, and I sincerely hope you have this plan. How and when will this plan be completed? Among other things, I am also interested in what the vaccination plan is. We know that the supplies of vaccines have not gone as well as we hoped. And on the other hand, I'm also interested in who gets vaccinated. How do I know when I'm being vaccinated, and what are the exceptions that are being made to the elite vaccination, which gives me a deep sense of injustice and lessen my belief that things in the country are going according to some agreed scenarios and plans? Perhaps my question is this: when and in what form can we expect a government plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U8	Thank you. There's a short plan and there's a longer plan. In fact, we're moving at this rhythm that we're looking at a short perspective, that is, about next week. But every two weeks, we review the bigger plan we're going to, and it's not secret. This plan is completely public. This government has been in office for three weeks, and in that time we have dealt with what is coming to an immediate end, perhaps the end of certain restrictions. These restrictions must either be extended or terminated. But we've been looking at this long plan and the numbers to aim for. Right now, we're aiming to get this number, the infection rate in society, 500. But we're not going in that direction to get it to 500. Now, your question about vaccination. We have a steering committee for vaccination, where there are experts who are constantly discussing the vaccination plan. We saw, in the case of the previous government, the emergence of political virologists, and we are also trying to avoid the emergence of political immunologists. That is why I think it is important to discuss with experts. If you look at the vaccination plan, the vaccination plan is constantly changing, both in Estonia and in other countries. I have examples from other countries, but Estonia is the same. At first, there was a plan that first there were frontier workers, then he ordered a debate about who the front line workers were. Now we know that it would be very important for schools to be free, so that teachers would not get sick and schools would not go to jail. Consequently, the same lead committee felt that frontier workers could also be teachers and police officers. Now we have an additional issue that concerns if the vaccine is left over so that the sixth dose is obtained from the vial. Who do you want to invite? Cops who move around, they could be taken faster than the plan envisaged. The aim is to get people vaccinated as soon as possible. Of course, we are dependent on supplies of vaccines, which, unfortunately, are a little entangled in Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U9	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U10	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! I'm asking about the so-called elite vaccination. Do you have any new information, in addition to the already publicised case of Chancellor Priske, about the vaccination carried out secretly by the state's highest authority or also the government's administration? Are there other cases that are likely to be offensive to public justice, such as the case of the Chancellor mentioned earlier? I might ask more specifically, do you know that there have been any more vaccinations by the Chancellor of the Ministry or by a member of the Government of the Republic, or even by the President?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U11	Thank you. All ministries had to make their front line workers' charts, report who belonged to the front line. This mapping was carried out as of 22 January for those in different administrative areas [frontier workers]. As far as the specific vaccinations you have pointed out are concerned, any hospital that administers the vaccinations is precisely the one to call for vaccinations when this sixth dose is left over. So who's gonna be able to get there fast? What is important is this guideline, which has been given to ensure that all such things are documented and that it is possible to justify why this person was called from the next line to be vaccinated. I hope that we will soon have vaccinated health professionals, then other frontline workers. This means that there will be more vaccines, and if there are more vaccines, then you can go on with vaccination at family doctor centres, so that the vaccine reaches everyone and there are no questions at all. Your question specifically concerned the President, for example. I don't know if he'd been vaccinated. However, it is also a question for the Vaccinating Expert Committee that we also have such a strategic front line, such as the Commander of the Defence Forces, whose state of health is very important in ensuring the country's performance and whether such people should receive a vaccine so that the state can continue to function. This is a matter for the Vaccination Expert Committee. What is extraordinary about this vaccination is that normally when we talk about vaccination, we are always talking about children and these are not the issues that arise at all. But this time the disease affects older people in particular, which is why vaccination is started from the older population, and therefore all these questions and confusions have arisen. But this is not only the case in Estonia, but actually in all the countries that are wrestling with this pandemic.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U12	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U13	The next questioner is Priit Sibul and is answered by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Taavi Aas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U14	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I have a question about the transfer of ownership or ownership of state-owned companies. Unfortunately, the coalition agreement does not tell us much about it, or rather it does not say it at all. Maybe you'll just pop a little door and tell us what was agreed during the coalition negotiations. One sentence from the previous coalition agreement, where we were together, has been included in the coalition agreement, indicating which companies are not going to be transferred. In the previous coalition agreement, [the letter] was specific companies. You yourself, as one person, carried forward and carried through the privatisation of Estonian Roads. Unfortunately, Operaili and Enefit Green were not able to dispose of their stakes, but they were specifically stated. They have now been replaced by a sentence in the coalition agreement that the government intends to carry out an inspection of entrepreneurship and property. Is it possible to say what was specifically said in the coalition talks? Why were [not mentioned], for example, those companies that had been discussed and earlier, I understand, were willing to dispose of, but for some reason it was not done? Why aren't there any? What is the plan with them or what other companies are on the list?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U15	Thank you. I hope you can hear me. Hello, everyone! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister and Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! Indeed, the previous government had decided to privatise or place three companies on the stock market and one of them was also privatized. I think the privatisation went quite well for us and is very useful for the country. In these coalition talks, we really talked about the fact that there will certainly be more companies that can be privatized, to be placed on the stock market. We agreed that we would look at the whole package, not just be stuck in some specific companies. But really, we'll audit and then we'll decide. However, certainly in the case of companies already mentioned in the previous government, I do not see any reason why we cannot move forward here. The operation has reached the point where the proposals for privatisation and how to carry it out are ready. I believe that in the near future we will be able to come to the government office and government to make decisions on how privatisation will take place. As far as Enefit Green is concerned, I do not think there is any reason to withdraw from the stock exchange. I think that a very large part of the Estonian people also have an interest in owning the shares of Enefit Green. It is a very promising business area, a business area. But certainly very much depends also on what the economic situation of Eesti Energia will be, how the situation in Enefit Green will develop. I think it's wise to move on here, but not too hasty.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U16	Priit Onion, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U17	Thank you. I agree with you and I really hope that these companies will go to [privatisation]. In the case of Enefit Green's IPO, it's been discussed when this is the right time. I am certainly not able to advise you when this time is right, so that IPO is right, but if we look at what is happening on the stock markets, I would like to hope that the right time is not yet over and you will arrive in the near future. I have a question and I hope that you will understand my concern or scepticism about the fact that your home party has rather been in the desire of the municipal and state enterprise, looking at the Tallinn Council's decision that Tallinna Vesi wants to buy back. We remember that the last time the Government of the Republic consisted of the Reform Party and the Centre Party, 2007 was bought back to the Estonian Railway State. Looking back from last week's news, being smart afterwards is probably much easier. I have a question: whether or when will you say that Opera is ready? Can you tell me what six you plan on going to government with this question, the same way with Enefit Green? Is it, or when, in the government's work plan, the exact time for the audit, so that I don't have to ask again in the meantime, but wait for the moment when you've finished their work and I can read them?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U18	Thank you. First of all, the schedule of the government's work schedule is being prepared. I believe that we can adopt a hundred days' plan this Thursday and move on from there to a comprehensive work plan. I don't want to rush ahead and tell you until the decisions are made, on one day or another, or when one or the other thing is done. However, in the case of Opera, I really dare to confirm that it will probably be possible to hold this cabinet discussion next month, to decide how and how much this company will be privatised and to move on from there. In this respect, we are practically ready.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U19	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! In the context of cooperation between the private sector and the state, I would come up with issues such as maritime affairs. Looking at the coalition agreement that has just been concluded, I do not really see Estonia as a maritime state. For many years, we have been dealing with the issue of ships flying the flag of Estonia, different activities, changes in legislation, tax changes. We want an additional resource for MKM in human form in the form of a deputy chancellor. That's where my questions are. Have you substantially agreed with your partners today, and what steps will you take in the near future to restore Estonia's status and reputation as a maritime state? Are there any agreements on the financial side that the RES has essentially agreed on in the past? What about the Vice Chancellor, is he in place yet? Are there any other steps you're going to take to make sure that, so far, I think, the active direction I've been holding for many years doesn't go wrong now? I couldn't read anything about it from the coalition agreement. Please, enlighten us!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U21	Thank you. As far as I know, there should also be a point in the coalition agreement that talks about Estonia as a maritime state. In any case, this was a very clear issue, and the coalition partners do not agree that Estonia should restore its status as a maritime state. Now about the specifics. The Vice Chancellor's competition is underway. I hope that in the near future the Vice Chancellor will be in place and then this whole area will be working in a much better way and much wider than today. We are certainly facing certain changes in the laws and certainly, as you indicated, negotiations in the RES regarding the maritime sector and the capabilities of our support systems, which is all that concerns the ability to break the ice and, on the other hand, all that concerns bringing ships under the Estonian flag. On the one hand [must be dealt with] marketing and, on the other hand, as I said, the Vice-Chancellor will get the place and then all that from the legislative side to bring ships under the flag of Estonia. Of course, we will also have a discussion about how we will continue with passenger ships, because here too, it is actually possible to bring under the Estonian flag ships that travel right here in our neighbouring waters. This interest continues to exist. And it is important to clarify the economic opportunities in the case of the RES. But I assure you that the course of the Government of the Republic has not changed with regard to bringing ships under the Estonian flag.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U22	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U23	Next, Martin Helme asks, and Prime Minister Kaja Kallas answers. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U24	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Prime Minister! You and the new Minister of Finance, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, have now been systematically going around for several weeks and talking about how Estonian public finances are somehow doomed, let down and no discipline. Personally, I absolutely disagree with that, I think it's just a slander. And I'd say some numbers over here. When we made an additional budget during the corona crisis in April, the Ministry of Finance forecast that the economic downturn would be 8%. Eesti Pank spoke about 10% of the recession. We now know that the real economic downturn in 2020 will be between 2% and 2.5%. And the reason why this is the case is our supplementary budget stimulus package. These are the billions that the previous government borrowed to support the economy. We had an argument on this subject right here in this Chamber with your party associates. Jürgen Ligi repeatedly pointed out that I have no proof that this stimulation of the economy will do anything to help the economy. I could even take those places out of the verbatim where he said it couldn't be measured. My answer to him was that if the recession is less than half an 8%, that is the proof of our stimulation [the benefit]. What's the point? Thanks to stimulating the economy, virtually all taxes will be received more. Compared to the additional budget, we have a clear surplus of over 700 million for virtually all tax types and some tax types even match the real budget, the 2020 budget. Now what is said is that we do not have budgetary discipline is not that we do not have budgetary discipline, but that there is a difference of opinion about what the previous government spent on. We have a political disagreement about what is being spent on. And I have the feeling that all this talk of a bad budget is actually a preparation for you to raise taxes on us. Please dispel my suspicion that you are planning, in one way or another, to start raising taxes on the grounds of poor budgetary positions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U25	Yeah, thanks! First of all, you are confusing two things: one is the budget and the other is the economic situation. The recession, the growth really were the numbers you are talking about. But when we talk about the budget, less than 528 million came into the 2020 budget compared to the budget adopted in 2019. That's a pretty good line of work. Now what we are talking about is that the budget is in a very bad position. We have also become aware of the fact that by 2022, 2023, 2024, respectively, the budget budget has been budgeted for 260 million budget cuts, 258 million budget cuts and 460 million budget cuts. This budget cut is unsuited, as you yourself know very well, being the previous Minister of Finance. So it's actually empty. And when we talk about budgetary balance, when budget expenditure exceeds budget revenue so much, there is no way of saying that this budget is balanced. This stimulus package shows nothing about the state of the budget. It is understandable that all countries are stimulating the economy in order to come out of the crisis, and that loans have also been taken for it. The question is why this loan will be used: will this loan be spent on running costs or will this loan be used for large investments that will return to the economy in the future? In this I agree with you that this budget problem has not begun with this crisis. The budget minus has really grown well over the years, the right number of years have already increased expenditure more than the budget revenue would have allowed. So these are two separate things.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U26	Martin Helme, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U27	Thank you. I also asked the question whether you could disprove my concern that you are actually planning direct or indirect tax increases with this difficult state of the budget. But frankly, with distress, I must admit that this is not so much a question of your political rhetoric or of Keit Pentus-Rosimannoutus, but of the fact that you do not understand either the budget or the economy. If you come up with a statement that the budget and the economy are unrelated, you really don't know whether to cry or laugh. Of course it's connected! The same 520 million minus compared to the 2020 budget that you have pointed out is half as low as originally thought to be negative due to the corona crisis. It was originally thought to be over a billion-dollar hole, actually half the size of the fire. Why did he come half the size? Because we borrowed as a country and revived the economy. As a result, we did not have a huge rise in unemployment, which led to labour taxes being passed on. They're directly related! It is absolute illiteracy to come to talk about that the budget and economy are not interrelated. Now, budget cuts. I categorically reject the fact that they're unfitting. They need political will. Budget cuts can be made if there is political will. And I admit that in the previous government, I didn't have the strength to get this political will together on the coalition. But all it takes is a decision. If you want to make those cuts, do them. The possibilities, the options for what to do and where to take from, are all worked out. You know that very well. But if you don't have that will, of course you can say that they're unsuited. I have this feeling that you have no intention of cutting back. And third, I would like to say that the figures in the RES, the national budget strategy, change twice a year: they change in March and change at the end of August. When I became the Minister of Finance, they put a paper on my desk that said we were a billion short. In fact, it was not a billion short, the following forecasts came, and these figures were much smaller. It doesn't make sense to beat me on these numbers. But I'm gonna ask you again about tax increases.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U28	Thank you. Firstly, I did not say that the economy and the budget are unrelated. I didn't say that. But what I said was that this budget hole is one thing, and that there is a hole in the budget, you admit it yourself. You just said here that the budget hole is half as small as you would have expected. So there's a budget hole! Consequently, what I am saying is that the State's revenue does not cover the State's costs is entirely adequate. You can agree with that. In this sense, the budget and the economy, of course, are linked. Now that these cuts are unsuited. Again, you admit that these cuts are unsuited. You know perfectly well that there are just numbers in it. You say that political will is needed to fill these cuts, and that there was no political will in the government where you were the Minister of Finance. Perhaps you will admit that these cuts are empty and unfurnished, and by that the budget gap is greater. As far as will is concerned, we have a very clear political will to get the budget in a better position than it was. And that is what we are constantly working on, also in order to find the places where the country can be pulled together, so that these costs are not so high. Coming to your question of tax increases, we have agreed in the coalition agreement that we have a tax peace and we will not raise taxes. We are trying to deal with budgetary disadvantages within the framework of the state budget. We are trying to reduce this budget deficit, but I admit that it cannot be done in one year, not in two years. Unfortunately, by the end of this two-year period, we will certainly not get a budget balance.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U29	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U30	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! As a historian, I can't pass past experiences. One of the past experiences dates back to the time when, after the overthrow of Napoleon I, the Bourbons came back to power. And then they said of them, "They have forgotten nothing, but they have learned nothing.' This also applies to you, this also applies to the Reform Party, you have forgotten nothing, but you have not learned anything either. I'm listening to what you're saying, and you're so box-thinking, you're stamp phrases that you're just sorry. As far as the framing of these cuts and the lack of political will are concerned, the agreements embodied by this political will would certainly have been achieved if there had not been a coup d'état. If there had not been a coup d'état. I don't call it any other way to change government. That is clear, a coup by the prosecutor's office. You're just being used as such a nice pawn. But, of course, I understand you're happy about it. I wish you luck because you'll have a hard time. But I'm not convinced by what you're saying that there will be no tax rises. There has already been talk of car tax; there has already been talk of raising other taxes. Then categorically overturn again, [tell] that there will be no tax increases. But my real question, which I was planning, relates to the pension reform carried out by our government, which has also been said by the members of your government, I do not remember whether it is you or the Minister of Finance that this reform must be reversed. Is this really the plan? And if this is the plan, how do you intend to reverse this reform for the nearest 100,000 people who have already taken money out of the pension fund?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U31	Thank you. My story may be boring, but at least it's based on some numbers and facts. Your story is, of course, very colorful, and I'm sure I'd like to hear your history class. As far as the coup d'état is concerned, you used this expression, it is not a coup d'état if a party that has won democratically the elections has the opportunity to form a government based on the very composition of the Riigikogu, which is democratically elected. This is not a coup, it is a natural part of the democratic process. The question of taxes, I repeat: we have agreed in the coalition agreement that taxes will not rise, we have a tax truce. As far as pension reform is concerned, we will not go back to the pension reform. There is a decision of the Riigikogu and, after that, a decision of the Supreme Court, which left this Riigikogu decision in force. People have had expectations on this basis, processes have already started. However, we are certainly working on finding opportunities in a situation where we have an ageing society, [to figure out] where we will be able to provide people with the means to pay decent pensions in the future, and to find solutions. It could be to raise or encourage people's own [money] so that people can acquire assets for retirement, or it could be to encourage employers' pensions so that people would have more savings in order to succeed in their retirement.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U32	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U33	Next, Ivari Padar asks and is answered by the Minister of Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U34	Thanks! Mr Minister, good luck in your work. You have received many problems from your predecessors, the previous government, which are long-stricken. One of these issues is the 12 million exceptional grants approved by the additional budget for the previous year, such grants have already been implemented at much higher rates in our neighbouring countries at the end of the summer and at the beginning of the autumn. And now this package of ours stands. We have also received sharp feedback on this package here as members of the Riigikogu, for example from the Chancellor of Justice. Farmers are waiting for what happens when this opportunity opens up. Do you have anything to say about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U35	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu Ivari Padar. Indeed, the 12 million package was on my desk from day one. And the reason, as you have even pointed out correctly, was that when this measure, this law, was adopted here, it began to be furnished in the Ministry of Rural Affairs according to the areas of activity, that is to say, how unit rates could be broken down into the corresponding sectors. It went to the coordination circle and came back with quite a lot of criticism. You yourself very nicely mentioned that one part was related to the references made by the Chancellor of Justice and those references were quite varied. Some of these references were related to whether and how it is justified that if a company that actually needs crisis assistance has not applied for area payments, for example, through the PRIA, why it is excluded from the range of beneficiaries of this aid. The second question related, for example, to pig farming, whether it is justified to allocate a large part of the aid between so few operators. The third issue that we expected, with the help of the European Commission, was the extension and extension of possible State aid rules. If you remember, the initial knowledge of both the Riigikogu and the government was that these measures could be implemented until June this year, following state aid rules. It was now extended until the end of the year, but also increased the so-called State aid rate per company, which today together with de minimis aid amounts to 225000. All these aspects were on the table and, as a result, the signing of this regulation has been delayed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U36	Ivari Padar, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U37	Thank you. As we know, when we voted on this 12 million package here last year, we voted in quite detailed restrictions, even in the case of pig farming, on how it can be used. Can it be assumed that we will have to make a legislative amendment concerning the additional budget for last year? And another thing that I would like to ask is, in this case, is there a topic up to increase this amount of 12 million? Because compared to neighbouring countries, this has been a very small amount, and it certainly is not to the extent that it is necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U38	Thank you, Honourable Asker. Indeed, you referred to an issue which was also pointed out by the Chancellor of Justice. The Chancellor of Justice, in his letter, has stated how this was dealt with in Parliament that such a substantive distribution is not part of the law, but is part of the explanatory memorandum and should not be treated by the Ministry as a specifically prescribed breakdown. We have discussed this issue in our house, too, and we have taken it quite seriously. This means that this is why we also met with representatives of the sector in order to open the background once again. Not only was the Chancellor of Justice critical, but also certain parts of the sector themselves were critical of this distribution. It is also true that we have had the will to receive additional funds of 3.3 million. But is it legally possible to get it, given that it has been adopted last year, today, specifically at the moment I answer you, there is no such knowledge. If, in the coming days or weeks, it turns out that we do not have this opportunity, the regulation will literally go to signature and implementation. And this initial plan, which the previous Minister for Rural Affairs had, was that the reception of applications could begin in mid-March.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U39	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U40	Thank you for the floor. Minister, thank you very much. Since we have caused quite a lot of problems in previous meetings of the Committee on Rural Affairs, I would like to ask again how these pigs are. Has there been any change in views at present as to whether [grants] are based on the basis of performance testing for sows or whether there is hope for other pigs? And the second question is: have you also discussed support for birds? Actually, we have very few quail. They could also be supported in some way so that they do not get out of Estonia. Any thoughts like that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U41	Thank you. Honourable questioner, let me first congratulate you on your new position and for your good cooperation and for the future, you are now Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs. But indeed, if we look at pig farming as a whole, this problem, which is due to global concern, i.e. the African swine fever reaching Germany and, therefore, the decline in German exports towards China, has led to a fall in the price of pigmeat. This is indeed a fact and, depending on the business model of their growers, whether they own only a narrow part of this business model or also produce products themselves, these effects are very different. If we look at this 12 million package and the distribution we have on the table today, in terms of proportions, also looking at the overall size of the sector, certainly the 3.2 million that has been allocated to pig farming today under this regulation is large enough compared to other sources of distribution. Compared to the dairy sector, for example, where the direct support measure for dairy cows is 2.6 million. However, the Chancellor of Justice's reference to this problem was precisely linked to the fact that, if so narrowly taken up as regards sows under performance control, this distribution is legitimate and compatible with the Constitution and ensures proper competition. For this reason, we have also discussed whether to take a support measure to maintain the so-called "core stock" of all sows that are available to our entrepreneurs in Estonia and then, if there is a part left under state aid rules, divide it between all piglets. The subject is indeed on the table. But that must be in line with whether we will have the opportunity to pay extra funds. Therefore, there is no definitive view. If you simply follow the suggestion of the Chancellor of Justice directly, you could say that you should certainly apply a broader base to minimise or partially compensate for possible damage.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U42	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U43	Next, Urmas asks Reinsalu and is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U44	Well, hello to the government family on this rough winter world! My questions concern the political repression in the Russian Federation in connection with the arrest of Alexei Navalnyi and the detention of peaceful protestors. The questions are specific. Is Estonia prepared to impose national sanctions, including to put pressure on the comprehensive sanctions of the European Union, just as the Baltic states imposed in relation to Belarus? Secondly, does the government support the initiative of 81 MEPs initiated by Riho Terras to propose to Mr Borrell to resign? And thirdly, what is your government's position on Yana Toom's statement on Saturday that these protests that take place in Russia are comparable to the banning of bronze night in 2007?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U45	Yeah, thanks! First of all, I congratulate you that, after leaving the Foreign Minister's seat, you have found a new birth in the form of an MEP who will continue your work there. The first question: does Estonia intend to impose national sanctions? I believe that Estonia alone is small and that we must first and foremost cooperate with other European countries. Sanctions will have effect if they are imposed by everyone, by the European Union, and in that case they will also bear fruit. I very much agree, and I have also talked about this with my European colleagues. All the speeches that have been made have also been about sanctions against Russia. As far as Borrell's visit is concerned, in my opinion the insistence of his head on this visit leads to the wrong focus. Everyone is watching Europeans fight among themselves, but in fact, we should look at Russia, to impose these sanctions. That is why I do not support this initiative [Riho Terras]. I'm saying Borrell himself has admitted that this move had failed, that everyone saw it. Russia humiliated the European representative, humiliated Europe. I believe that it will take away any power from those who naively hoped that it would be possible to have a dialogue with Russia. Russia clearly does not want to have any dialogue, and this must be the basis for it. The positive side of this is that the High Representative of the European Union and, among other things, some Member States in the south of Europe also realised that Russia cannot and instead wants to lower Europe. And that is why it is easier to negotiate sanctions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U46	Urmas Reinsalu, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U47	Thank you. You didn't mention your assessment of Yana Toom's statement on behalf of the government. But my question also concerns the context of foreign policy, because, as we know, our neighbouring Russia has spoken very loudly on the issue of the transition to education in Estonian in general education schools. Your position has been that the government of the Reform Party will switch to Estonian-language education in general education schools, which is a clear and understandable political line. At the same time, I read the statement by Jaak Aabi, head of the Central Party's government delegation on Facebook on 28 January, and I quote: "I was at the negotiating table and I know what was said and what was agreed. /... There is no word for transition in this text. This means that the current government does not intend to change the legislation on the subject or to close down Russian-speaking schools. We support the current system. " On January 28, only Mailis Reps will give him a second in the Russian Delfi: "Пepeхoдa нe будeт, утвepждaeт цeнтpиcткa. " Similarly, in the Stolitsa newspaper, the mayor of Tallinn, Mikhail Kõlvart, continues with his clear position, and I quote: "Koaлицианый дoroвop kindro не подусмaтpивaeт. " What is the clear line of the Government of the Republic on this sensitive matter, since these views have indeed been highly controversial?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U48	Thank you. First of all, I apologise, I missed the one question concerning Yana Toomi in the previous reply. No, I do not share the view expressed by Yana Toom and do not agree that the state acted in any way wrong during the Bronze Night. As far as education in Estonian is concerned, we have clearly agreed that we will launch an action plan for education in Estonian. It has also been said that it is possible to carry out the study process in Estonian in kindergartens and schools. What does that mean? This means that we start with kindergartens, and precisely because if children learn Estonian at a good enough level in kindergartens, it will be much easier for them to cope with a school in Estonian. In this respect, however, this system is changing. We believe that Estonia cannot maintain two educational systems on an equal level. The figures also show that children in Russian-speaking schools receive lower education, PISA tests and state exams are worse there. It is our wish that all people living in Estonia can speak Estonian well and thus participate in society, can participate in society, jobs and everything else. We are also planning to discuss a 100-day government action plan in the government office this week, and there are already the first steps to include teachers in kindergartens to help transfer the learning process to the Estonian language. So let's move on with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U49	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U50	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I am terribly pleased that your government has taken practically the same policy as the previous government, which concerns education in Estonian. Perhaps there has been a realistic position that clearly differs from what was in this Chamber a few months ago when the Reform Party, by force, wanted to ram through the total transition to Estonian education without preparing for it. So the truth will rise, the lie will sink, as always. But the question still concerns me with foreign policy, and it relates to the fact that the ministers of your government, and you yourself, have repeatedly stressed how things cannot stop behind labour shortages in Estonia, which means that you are ready to open the borders of Estonia to the labour force. This is something that we fought against and fought very pragmatically, not to exclude the arrival of the labour force in Estonia, but to want to control it, tax it, etc. But I am particularly concerned with the security aspect of all of this. We know that this workforce comes to us from most Slavic countries. Can't you see a security threat to the growth of the Russian-speaking Slavic community, given that it's very easy to plant all kinds of special servicesmen among workers, let's say so?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U51	Yeah, thanks! First of all, about your introduction. It is as if you do not support education in Estonian. It's somewhat surprising, to be honest. EKRE has usually said [inverse]. But what is really said is that you are somehow trying to go after the voters of the Centre Party. Do it anyway, so you keep your line. Secondly, this question, or rather what you said, as if we were opening limits to an unlimited mass labour force, is not true. We have talked about the fact that there really is a need for additional labour in certain areas for the functioning of the Estonian economy. These are areas where there is a shortage of labour in Estonia. That is why we have agreed that the inclusion of additional labour should be linked to the situation on the labour market. In those sectors where there is low labour shortages and unemployment rather, entrepreneurs need to find workers locally. In those sectors where this workforce cannot be found on the ground, it should be possible to include additional workers so that this work is not missed and the economy does not suffer. Now, your question also concerned the growth of the Slavic community. Aren't we afraid that the growth of the Slavic community is frightening? First of all, it is important that all the people who are in Estonia learn the Estonian language and consider the principles that are important to us themselves. As far as the additional workforce is concerned, there are still very clear limits to this. For example, when we talk about seasonal work, these people are here for a limited period of time, and after the work is done, they have to leave. I do not believe that this will increase the Slavic community in Estonia. But if these people want to stay in Estonia, they need to learn the Estonian language and consider the Estonian language and culture important.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U52	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U53	Next, Helle-Moonika Helme asks and is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U54	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister Kaja Kallas! One of the most commonly used expressions of the previous Prime Minister Jüri Ratas was "binding Estonia." You, too, have expressed your desire to move towards a coherent Estonia, and you have repeatedly said in your speeches that we do not classify people. However, the finance minister of your government, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, has given an interview to the Estonian National Broadcasting and, on live television, said that the EKRE-free government is a value in its own right. Thus, the Minister of Finance has expressed his wish to abolish the legitimate choice made in the democratic elections of some 100000 Estonian citizens and to expel them from society, i.e. to say that rejecting the choice of 100000 Estonian people is a value in itself. Can we next hear in some interviews that the EKRE-free country is a value in itself? It would certainly be a pleasure for your European mother party, ALDE, but this kind of pun, EKRE-frei, is not appropriate either here or in Europe. I understand that you have not yet come out of the role of opposition politician and cannot control your world-view anger, but I would remind you that as Prime Minister you are now not just the chairman of one party, but the Prime Minister of Estonia as a whole. You must be able to empathize to reflect the needs and opinions of society as a whole. Can you acknowledge here, today and now that this was an extremely unsuccessful statement by your finance minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U55	Thank you for your question. I apologize to the Prime Minister, but we have a procedural question from this Chamber. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U56	Thank you. I'm thinking about the Question Time procedure. I am listening to this debate, such important issues are actually slipping by, leaving the air, for example, this issue of education in Estonian. I didn't get the answer to the transition. If there was one line, the transition. However, three representatives of the other partner of the coalition have said that there is no transition. Things are somehow left empty, and I don't think it makes sense for clarity in society. I have a proposal to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu: the Board of the Riigikogu could discuss how to make Question Time work more dynamic. I remembered the pre-war tradition of the Estonian Parliament, where the discussions ended with a 'transition form'. That would be my proposal to make the procedure more dynamic for the Board of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U57	Thank you. Unfortunately, there was no question, there was a proposal. But Question Time is in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Proposals for this amendment are in the hands of all members of the Riigikogu. But now I ask the Prime Minister to answer the Helle-Moonika Helme question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U58	Thank you. When the government of the EKRE, the Fatherland and the Centre Party took office, your husband said in the "Actual Camera" that the exclusion of the Reform Party from government was a value in itself. At the time, we had won the election, the Reform Party won the election. It has repeatedly been repeated by both the members of the EKRE and the representative of the Fatherland that keeping the Reform Party outside the government is a value in itself. That is what you have expressed many points of view. EKRE had the opportunity to be in government for two years. During this two years, we saw that, in fact, there might be a lack of authority. This does not mean that the government can be reckless to the EKRE voters. I can't! Of course not! These people are never gonna pick me, probably not, they're still gonna pick you. And that is the natural part of the democratic process. People have different choices and people who are elected argue about how social life should be organised and how to reach an agreement. Just as you were in the government, we are now in the government, but at least we don't think we can be reckless about the EKRE voters.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U59	Thank you. Mart Helme, is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U60	Yeah. I would ask the President-in-Office to call the Prime Minister to order so that he does not spread false claims, in this case, as if we had a lack of competence in the government. We had full jurisdiction in the government. And most of the previous government's progress on tax cuts, pension reform...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U61	Thank you. Unfortunately, this is not a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U62	... the increase in defence costs was due to us and our expertise. So please call the Prime Minister to order so he doesn't spread false claims.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U63	Thank you. Indeed, making false claims in this hall is not beautiful, just as Urmas Reinsalu highlighted the lack of substantive answers. But unfortunately, everyone is free to ask and the ministers are free to answer. Now, please, Helle-Moonika Helme, a clarification question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U64	Thank you. As was expected, there was an immediate response to our old sayings in our direction. But also for the sake of the future, so that you do not repeat them again here, I say in your own words that this is all last year's snow, and no one but you wants to talk about them anymore. But let's talk about your own statement, and it's as fresh as the snow that's raining out now. You gave The Guardian a small interview, and this article literally contained slander. It said that the EKRE is against all forms of immigration and has pursued the economic policy of the Nazis. This article is directly related to you and also on your Facebook page, and as Prime Minister, you will understand that your words and statements associated with you have a weight. Therefore, if you share what is written in this article, please explain the reasons for these statements. Please give concrete examples of draft laws with which the EKRE fully wanted to ban all immigration. And please, since you probably know more about the economic policy of the Nazis than we do, maybe you could also give concrete examples of economic policy decisions and steps taken by the previous government that are imputable to the economic policy of the Nazis.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U65	Thank you. Since perhaps not all of our listeners will read The Guardian, I would point out that this article was published in 2019. I have never said that EKRE conducts the economic policy of the Nazis. Please don't give me those words! I don't know who said that to the journalist who published this article, he probably had a lot of sources. Yeah, he did an interview with me, too, but my words in this article in The Guardian are perfectly correct, and there's no way to attribute to me what you're reading right now. It's just not true.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U66	Heljo Pikhof. I'm sorry! Mart Helme, is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U67	Yeah. I don't know how to introduce this procedure in the Republic of Estonia, but maybe the President would apologize for Kaja Kallas's flagrant statements in the foreign press.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U68	Thank you. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U69	Thank you. We've been here discussing the personal question of the EKRE for a long time, so let's get to the point. Prime Minister! Due to the outbreak of the virus, several trade fairs in Estonia have been canceled or postponed. This has had a major economic impact on both the companies and organisers that had to participate in the fairs and the companies that served the fair. Maamees is the largest fair in Estonia, where agriculture, forestry, horticulture, food and animals are represented as areas. In 2020, the Earth Fair was canceled. The next Earth Fair is planned to take place on 15th and 17th. 30 April 2021. The special feature of the fairs is that they take place seasonally and take almost a year to prepare them. It's almost a year for Maames. If we look at European practice, there are trade fairs separated from other public events and they have been subject to the conditions imposed on shopping centres, according to which people can be together in a large territory if they are scattered. For example, Maames uses 70,000 square metres of outer space and 6500 square metres of interior space. And now the question: is the Government of the Republic of Estonia prepared to consider granting special permission for major regional events such as the Maames? Maybe I'll get another number. For example, in 2017, AS Tartu Näitus ordered a regional economic impact study from the Estonian Conjuncture Institute on Maames. According to this, the economic impact of Maames on the region at that time was EUR 3,9 million. I'm waiting for an answer to the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U70	Thank you. Urmas Reinsalu has a procedural question before listening to the answer. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U71	Thank you. Now I am really going to ask you a specific question. I'm a regular reader of The Guardian, its electronic edition is available free of charge, unlike many other British newspapers. I must admit that this particular article, which was the subject of controversy, has not come to my reading. But I think that right now we should definitely take down any false claims in society...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U72	Thank you, Mr Reinsalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U73	My question to the President of the sitting is as follows: has the President read this article and is able to objectively assess what claims were made there and what arguments were not made? Then we can move on with the debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U74	Thank you. Unfortunately, this is not a procedural question. We can discuss this later. Helle-Moonika Helme, please, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U75	Thank you. I hope this qualifies as a procedural issue. The Prime Minister lied because he said that this article was from 2019, but on his own page there is: "I gave an interview to the British page Guardian, which shows how the change of government looks outside Estonia. " The title is really modern: Estonia's first female headminister etc. So good Kaja Kallas, you lied. [[Kaja Kallas says he didn't lie.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U76	Lying is extremely ugly in every sense, but unfortunately, it is not a procedural question. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U77	Thank you, Mr President. I have a procedural question with reference to the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. Article 146 (8) of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure states that if the President of the sitting considers that a member of the government has given an adequate answer to the question of a member of the Riigikogu, he will stop dealing with this question. A situation has now arisen in the Chamber where the majority of those in the Chamber are dissatisfied with the answer given by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas on this article. There is a specific reference in the law to your judgment. I have a question: do you think that the questions of a member of the Riigikogu have been adequately answered?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U78	Thank you, it's a procedural question indeed! This is about our law on home and working procedures. However, I am not in a position to extend the time when either the Minister or the Prime Minister will reply, because the Labour and Rules of Procedure Act provides for precise rules of procedure. There are two minutes for the question, three minutes for the answer. I can't get past that. According to the paragraph you mentioned, I would really have the theoretical possibility of [stopping the matter] if the Minister gave an excellent answer in one minute. I could tell you that now I'm interrupting because we've got the answer we've been waiting for. But I don't think that's very well-founded. I'm sure the minister could give you an even better answer in three minutes. I really wish that everyone would respond adequately, in substance and honestly. Heljo Pikhofil is also a procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U79	Yeah, I have a procedural question. Mr President of the Riigikogu. All the questions that were here before, I do not consider them to be procedural, and I am very sorry if the Prime Minister starts to respond to these accusations or to the statements that have been made here. My question was whether the Government of the Republic of Estonia is prepared to consider granting special permission for major regional events such as the Maames. I ask the Prime Minister for an answer to this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U80	Yeah, of course, he's gonna answer that. Procedural issues shall be addressed to the President. Urmas Reinsalu's hand is up. Is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U81	Yeah, thanks! I would just like to ask the President of the sitting to clarify § 146 (8) because in fact, the amount of additional questions in the Home and Working Procedures Act is not specified on any issue and the practice has been shaped differently. It is stated in the law that the President of the sitting has the opportunity to give the questioner the right to ask specific questions and, if the President of the sitting considers that the answer is sufficient in accordance with paragraph 8, the matter shall be closed. Should this provision be interpreted as meaning that if the answer is sufficient, for example on the issue of education in Estonian, is clear in the government line, then the question will be closed, the questioners will be satisfied, or do we expect that an adequate answer will only mean that, within three minutes, it has been possible to express its position in Parliament's plenary room?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U82	Thank you. This is a rather complicated subject, indeed, and a very good question. However, the President of the sitting must not rely solely on whether or not a particular member of the Riigikogu has received an adequate response. We have a list ahead of us that contains a series of questions from members of the Riigikogu that are registered before the Question Time. We must take into account that as many members of the Riigikogu as possible can get their questions asked and receive their answers, because otherwise, if we give infinite opportunities to ask additional questions, we could limit ourselves to just one question. There is no doubt that there will be enough questioners and questions. Unfortunately, there has always been such a golden middleway so that as many members of the Riigikogu as possible can ask their questions. Helle-Moonika Helme, is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U83	This time it's a completely procedural question. I would like to remind you that, in the case of my registered question to the Prime Minister, the subject was 'Industrial society and the image of the current government'. In short, § 144 says that if a member of the Riigikogu wishes to ask a question, he or she will also determine the subject matter of the government or the public sphere involved in the [application]. However, the honourable Heljo Pikhof has put forward an additional question, which was not really in this area at all. His question is 15, he's registered, and it's about a health crisis. Maybe he could have waited for his time and not crashed into my subject with a completely different subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U84	Yes, that is a perfectly reasonable remark, because, in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act, a member of the government may reasonably refuse to reply if the matter does not concern the problem mentioned in the application or relates to state secrecy or if the reply would undermine the security of the State. As this question does not concern the problem mentioned in the request, the member of the government, perhaps at present specifically, has the possibility of refusing to reply to it. Heljo Pikhof, please, if there is a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U85	Thank you. In fact, the thing is, who means what imagery means? Pretty sure fairs and organizing them are the subject of government reputation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U86	Thank you. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U87	Thank you. I will go from there to where Helle-Moonika Helme left off on this issue. I have such a smart book here, it is the law of the Riigikogu on the rules of procedure and the law of the Riigikogu, which also contains comments. Paragraph 146, "The procedure for replying to questions', states in the comments under point 1: "It is up to the Director of the information class to assess whether the question concerns the problem mentioned in the request [---] and whether the question has received a sufficient answer in order to put an end to the handling of the matter [----]. The President of the sitting shall exercise discretion in identifying both circumstances. " It really means that you have the right to keep answering questions on a narrow path.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U88	Unfortunately, as I have already answered Urmas Reinsalu, the possibility for other members of the Riigikogu to ask their questions must also be taken into account in terms of discretion. I'm sure there'd be a lot of fat blood if I stayed with one question for the whole briefing. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U89	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Since we have already drawn attention to procedures here and there has been talk about discretion and the obligation to answer questions exhaustively, I have this question for you: should we not interrupt this Question Time now because the Prime Minister has clearly shown incompetence in answering and lying to the ambassadors?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U90	Thank you. This is a very interesting proposal, but unfortunately I do not have the authority to do so. Looks like there's no more procedural questions. The Prime Minister has an opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U91	I will answer Heljo Pikhof's question first. Indeed, the Earth Fair is a powerful event, I've been there myself, and it's very impressive. But we're in the situation where we are now. We were informed today of 789 positive corona samples, we have 444 people in hospital beds, and 15 of them are controlled by breathing. Therefore, we must be very careful about major events where the virus can spread better. As I said before, people's sense of danger has diminished, and every time we take some kind of restriction off, for example, saying that such big events are allowed, we give people a signal as if the threat is over. The danger is not really over and these numbers do not show signs of improvement. Therefore, I am rather of the opinion that we cannot allow such a major event separately, as the risk of the virus is so great. But we will certainly discuss it in the government in the coming weeks when we review the restrictions. Now, I still have some adjustments to make when Helle-Moonika Helme accuses me of lying. I asked for these two articles to be sent to me. There are two articles in The Guardian. And what he's referring to is that EKRE has dealt with the Nazi economy, these are the words of the journalist, that's not my quote. I didn't say anything like that. My quotes are different there. In 2019, the same journalist has written about Estonia after the elections and about the formation of a new government. It came as a surprise to everyone that the party that won the elections on that occasion could not form a government, but instead formed a government with a party on which the Prime Minister [Jüri Ratas] had previously said that he would certainly not form a coalition with them. So these claims, as if I had said something like Helle-Moonika said here, are simply not true. Anyone who speaks English can read these articles on their own, and there is evidence. Please don't blame me for this!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U92	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U93	Next, Jevgeni Ossinovski asks and is answered by Minister of Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U94	Thank you, Mr President. Minister for Rural Affairs! I'm sorry, but I also read this article from The Guardian when EKRE was trolling here, and it turns out that Jaak Madison is the one who has praised the Nazi economy. The journalist asked Jaak Madison why he was doing this, and Jaak Madison said that at the time in Germany things went pretty well in the economy when the Nazis were in power. So in this sense, ladies and gentlemen should ask their party partner in the European Parliament what their party's vision of economic development is anyway. But to the Minister for Rural Affairs, I have a question that concerns a subject close to our hearts, a bear farm. As you well know, the Riigikogu has passed the first reading of a bill that would end this activity in Estonia. For a long time, this issue has been under discussion. When you were a minister last time, we discussed this issue, and the main argument against it was that it was a big industry. As we know, today it is no longer for various reasons and, in fact, now is precisely the time to make this value decision and to end this cruel economic activity in a polite, nice way. My question is how do you, as Minister for Rural Affairs, see in what perspective, in what transition times, with which support mechanisms and other things the executive authorities need to support this decision, so that we in Parliament can do it nicely. And when would that happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U95	Thank you, very honorable questioner! Indeed, this is a bill initiated by 23 members of the Riigikogu, which was submitted on 18 June last year. When we talk about the positions of different ministries on this draft, both the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Rural Affairs have sent their views. In its reply, the Ministry of the Environment follows the logic that alien species should not enter the wild, and the Ministry of Rural Affairs has indeed been guided by the logic that concerns rural entrepreneurship, jobs and the possibility to engage in different activities. The honest answer is also if you ask whether this topic has been on the table of the Minister for Rural Affairs during the first weeks of work that it is not. And the reason why he has not been on the table in this way is that we are aware that some Members of Parliament have taken the initiative and this initiative is being taken forward. You actually refer in your amendment to the law to the fact that [the activities of fur farms] should be discontinued if breeding and rearing are primarily carried out for fur production. In legal terms, this means that if it is not comparable, for example, to the purpose of farming in agriculture, it would not really be wise to continue with it. This has, in my opinion, been caused by two factors. One factor relates to our markets, or to changes in consumer behaviour, and the other is that society is getting closer to a point where certain activities should no longer be tolerated. But with what timetable will Parliament deal with this? I personally find it difficult to say this at the moment, both as a minister and as a representative of the ministry. I assume, in fact, that this debate will be taken forward in the near future. New Commission members, new chairmen and vice-chairmen have also been elected, so that this can and can go on. The question of deadlines, if I remember correctly now, which I myself have been able to participate in as a Member, has also shown flexibility in terms of deadlines.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U96	Martin Helme, please! I'm sorry! Evgeny Ossinovski has a very specific question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U97	Thank you! It is quite understandable that this has not been among the priorities of the new minister in the first few weeks. And, of course, I, too, believe that this cross-party initiative launched in Parliament should move forward. While, as you well know, during the previous government, although there was a cognizant support for this draft among the majority in Parliament, the previous Minister for Rural Affairs and his party were the ones who, in fact, rather held back in the ministry to offer constructive solutions on how to find a compromise with industry. As a result, there are great hopes that now, in a changed situation, we will find a partner in the Ministry of Rural Affairs to work through possible alternatives together and reach an agreement to put an end to the fur farm business in Estonia. It's the same way. And the other way around, the sector would also have an understanding of how this is going to happen. If there was a need, the Ministry of Rural Affairs would be able to assess it, some kind of support money could be offered there to compensate for it. It is also your competence, which we certainly need in order to proceed with this bill. Let me put the question this way: in the new situation, can we now expect a constructive partnership from the Ministry of Rural Affairs in order to complete this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U98	Thank you, Honourable Asker. I will try to answer this labeled issue in several parts. The first part relates to the fact that if we look at the past activities of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, we have experience in various crises in order to develop certain support measures, or mitigation measures, including to leave one sector and enter another sector. For example, 2015. In the 2008 agricultural crisis, when a number of sectors were hit, we developed measures that provided an opportunity, for example, to exit the dairy or pig sector and to choose a more suitable or risk-free form of business for the entrepreneur. I can therefore say that if there is a debate in Parliament and advice is needed on what these mitigation and compensatory measures could be, if Parliament reaches a unanimous decision that [the action of fur farms] should be stopped from a year, then here we are definitely partners. It's not a question at all, we have this experience. You actually referred to the fact that at some point in time the Ministry of Rural Affairs has defended the position that [in fur farms] there are very many jobs and this industry is large. I'd like to expand it a little bit. It might have looked like that at the time. But the real question today is not only whether there are one, two or a hundred entrepreneurs in this sector and whether there are two, three, 2000 or 200 specimens on the farm, but also whether we are prepared to continue with this sector in this value area, which we see as ideally. My view, let's say, of the people who have been involved in this sector should also be respectful. It is in this key that, when Parliament comes to this conclusion [to close down fur farms], we will find and discuss possible compensation mechanisms. We're not just saying that we made a decision here today and shut your doors, see how you do.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U99	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U100	Thank you. I must say, of course, that I have never understood the fetish of the sots in banning this industry. I have not understood their contempt and some kind of money being poured out to people who actually do well to themselves and do a completely dignified job. I'm just saying it's not a universal fetish. And when we talk about value space, value space is that we have freedom of action, freedom of economic activity, and people choose. Humans are more important than animals, and this is also a very important element of value space. So what I'm just saying is that this isn't some universal pressure from this hall, that we're definitely shutting down some kind of industry today, because you can be sure that the socialists will be targeting some next company tomorrow, who they'll conjure and destroy. But that was more of a comment. I actually wanted to come back to the fourth question in which we talked about the money allocated to pigs. I found it very confusing how this EUR 3.2 million is distributed. There are choices. We know that this entire 3.2 million cannot only be given to those pigs that are under performance control. But this [other] money will just stop. Have you ever thought that if you go this way to give money only to pigs under performance control, where will the rest of the money go? It's about $2 million. Or is this money still given to the rest of the pig farmers? I didn't hear the answer before.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U101	Thank you. Honourable member of the Riigikogu! I am missing the opportunity offered by the honourable President that if the question does not respond to the issue, it may not be answered. Your question does not really relate to this matter. But I want to answer you because to clarify that the material that was on the table from the previous government, because there were also coordination circles, was that EUR 3.2 million had been allocated to pig rearing, which was split up roughly so that nearly 2 million went to the pigs under performance control and what was left over, or separated by what had been distributed to the sows, was to be distributed among all the other pigs. This would have meant around EUR 5 per specimen in monetary value. What the Chancellor of Justice was referring to was, in fact, whether it is justified and justified to allocate such a large amount to such a small group in relation to the total amount, is it not an obstacle to competition and is compatible with the Constitution? Our internal desire was that before we go ahead with the regulation that we have been given and make certain choices there, we would like to discuss whether we can contribute further. If we look at all the damage, it can be said that there would certainly be a greater need for support in this particular area. So that is why I tried to answer with different aspects, because the criticism has been a bit different in terms of gardening, pig farming and dairying.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U102	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U103	Next, Raivo Tamm asks, and Prime Minister Kaja Kallas answers. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U104	Welcome to my humble hive, Prime Minister. I am no longer a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs because of high-level corruption and related restructuring, but I have not lost any interest in foreign policy. Yesterday, 17 + 1 summit with China took place with the participation of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Liimets. I assume this participation had your approval. On 22 July, you said in the ERR online "Direct Newsroom": "It's terrible what China does to Uighurs. All these parallels that arise with Nazi Germany and Jews are very frightening. " On February 2, a very thorough article on the treatment of Uighurs in China also appeared on the BBC website, giving an overview of systematic rape and abuse and torture. How can you reconcile Estonia's participation in this summit and your previous comments? Has your attitude towards human rights and freedoms changed dramatically, or has Prime Minister Kaja Kallas and Kaja Kallas led the opposition party two different people?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U105	Thank you. No, there are no two different people. For the first time, the Republic of Estonia took part in this summit at the level of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. In this government, the coalition you were in, they were at the Prime Minister's level. I personally didn't attend that meeting. I strongly support Estonia's communication with China in 27 + 1 format. This 17 + 1 format is currently in place, but the government must analyse Estonia's Asian strategy more closely, so that we interact with the Asian countries in the first place, including, of course, China, and in which formats we still participate. It has been our interest to maintain good relations with China, but that does not mean that we do not deplore the situation there. As you yourself pointed out, human rights are very important to us and to Europe in exactly the same way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U106	Raivo Tamm, more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U107	Yeah. Our former Foreign Minister, my partymate Urmas Reinsalu, has also said that he would prefer 27 + 1. Could you give a little more details on the Chinese-policy of the government set up by the Reform Party and the Central Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U108	Thank you. This government has been in office for three weeks. The Estonian people say give time to set the tide. It's gonna take us a while to come up with a strategy. I would like to point out that the previous Minister of Foreign Affairs was in office for a very long time and did not come up with any strategy that would involve editing Estonia in the Asian direction and that would involve meetings in different formats that we participate in. We're going as fast as we can. In the last office, we briefly discussed this and instructed the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to come up with a comprehensive analysis and a plan. We will certainly inform the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Riigikogu about this, involve you in discussions on what the Asian strategy of Estonia should be, what the involvement of Estonia in the various formats in the meetings that we wish to receive from there and what the purpose of our foreign policy is.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U109	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U110	Thank you. Prime Minister! The previous Foreign Minister, Reinsalu, was indeed remarkably active. His activists often either scratched his head or were frightening, but he could certainly not be blamed for lack of activity. The foreign policy editing of the new government has so far been a different handwriting, but it is true that the so-called "working in" of the government is only in its early stages. As a result, many events of international politics, which are important on a global scale, have at least not received any assessment from the Estonian Government to the best of my knowledge. One such event is a coup in Myanmar; it was actually one of the biggest geopolitical events in the world last week. Estonia is a member of the European Union, but also a member of the UN Security Council. And surprisingly, I have not heard from the Estonian Government any position on this matter. Consequently, I have the question of what steps Estonia has taken or is planning to take in the format of the Security Council and in the European Union's formats on the issue of the protection of human rights and democracy in the Republic of Myanmar.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U111	Thank you. Of course, everything that is happening in the world will ultimately also affect Estonia's foreign policy and Estonia's attitude to various events. Of course, we are watching what is happening in Myanmar, but we really have not made any separate statements on this. I don't know if it's always necessary to make them. Of course, if they ask, we'll answer. I think that the general principle on which Estonia is based is that human rights are very important to us and that democratic organisation is also very important to us. We are now monitoring the events that are taking place in Myanmar, whether there are really democratic elections there, as has been said, and whether power is being transferred according to the mandate of democratic elections, or whether events are developing in another direction. As far as the UN Security Council is concerned, of course, these issues will be discussed there and we will also communicate with our allies in order to form a common position.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U112	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U113	Next, Kert Kingo asks, and Prime Minister Kaja Kallas answers. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U114	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! On 25 January, you gave a speech here in the Riigikogu as a fresh prime minister, saying: "Politics is a debate about how we organise our lives in society and how we share resources. " You also said: " This brings me to the fourth crisis that we have come into, and which unfortunately does not allow this coalition to begin with a clean apron. We're talking about a corruption crisis. I'm a lawyer in my profession, and my worldview and beliefs are connected with the belief in the rule of law, which is why I am so passionate about it. "When you speak of corruption, you also said: 'If you give in to this matter, the credibility of the whole country, not just of one party or government, will be destroyed in the eyes of its citizens'. [You added that] the new government wants to be more consistent in fighting corruption. My question is as follows. Up until today, you have not expressed your condemnation of a publicized elite vaccination, including the senior vaccination of Chancellor Marika Priske of the Ministry of Social Affairs. However, it is corruption, this time medical corruption. Please tell me how and who will take responsibility for it. And the following questions. How do you think this behaviour of top officials will affect citizens' confidence in the credibility of our country, Estonia, as the rule of law? Is that your vision and your understanding of our rule of law?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U115	Corruption is dealt with by law enforcement authorities and is indeed punishable in Estonia. For me, it is very positive that law enforcement authorities are finding out a lot of cases of corruption and these things are going to come out in the open. I think it's important. As far as vaccination is concerned, I have already replied that the arrangements for vaccination must be very clear and understandable. What's the situation? There have been situations where the sixth dose in the vial is exceeded. Now, hospitals, health authorities can quickly invite people to vaccinate and take advantage of this sixth dose. What they call is up to them. Of course, they have been given guidelines on which they must act. And the cases you're talking about are dealt with by the hospitals themselves. When considering whether to use the sixth dose and whether to use it on a person who stays in that hospital on a daily basis or often goes there and comes into contact with the cause of the disease, it is the hospital's decision to use the vaccine on him. But I would like to emphasise once again: vaccination must be organised in a clear and understandable manner so that there are no misunderstandings and people feel unfair about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U116	Kert Kingo, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U117	Thanks again! I didn't hear the condemnation of this behavior in your reply. In addition, I think it is necessary to clarify that the vaccination plan makes it very clear and concrete who these groups are and who are the people who should receive vaccination as a matter of priority. In addition, this second step is also mentioned for those who should receive the vaccine if a dose is missed. I very much doubt that it was not possible to reach one of the police or rescue staff and that the chancellor was the most available person. But the second question I have is this. In this same speech on 25 January, you referred to the fifth crisis as the crisis of Estonia's international reputation. How do you consider the reputation of the Estonian state to be affected by the domestic corrupting of vaccines received through the European Union between senior officials? And I'd still like your condemnation of the Chancellor's priority vaccination and even their elite vaccinations.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U118	I've taken out the guidelines that the vaccinators have been given. According to the guidelines, in order to prevent vaccine loss, it is reasonable to keep a reserve list of people who would be ready to be vaccinated quickly at short notice if, at the end of the day, unused doses are opened in the vial and there is a risk of withdrawal. The recommendation is to set up a fall-back list of the target population currently being vaccinated. If no one is found there, someone from the next target group will have to be found, and if no one is found there, another person may be invited. It is important that the vaccineer should document such an exception and be able to justify his decision in a convincing manner, if necessary. It is a question to the hospital of how they justify this decision and how they have been given vaccination lists. It shall be sufficiently documented. I think it is positive that this issue also came to the public. As I understand it, the hospital has explained that it was a person who has to be there all the time and who was able to get the vaccine immediately. I think it is important to look further so that we get enough of these vaccines and that we no longer have such situations and that the entire population is vaccinated, as agreed. From older people and frontier workers, as well as teachers, rescuers and policemen, everyone who is more exposed to this virus.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U119	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U120	Thank you. Well, there's no convincing justification. There's no convincing reason why the chancellor should receive the vaccine. Talking about him going to a lot of hospital, forgiving him, being a member of the board, meeting the council at best once a month and often on a long-distance road. Most councils do not meet more than once a quarter. So there's no convincing reason. I come back to two issues, firstly to the issue of corruption and secondly to the issue of keeping my own. In my opinion, it is entirely reasonable to ask whether the possible trade in influence is being investigated, whether it is being investigated that perhaps this vaccine was part of a bribery transaction. In the end, it is the Ministry of Social Affairs that governs hospitals, and if the chancellor receives a priority injection, then it should be examined whether or not someone has promised anyone any preferential treatment in this system. I don't think it's appropriate to get behind guidelines or plans here. The plan is very clear. The plan is confirmed by the government. It is not just some piece of paper, but there is a very clear order of how vaccinations are to be carried out. If you want to change this plan, fine, change that plan. But right now, this plan is being broken. And it seems to me that is being violated for the reason that there are own and there are some other people just chancellor Prisk is your own or is the minister of the swing on your own, and yours can be vaccinated outside the tail. It's a moral question. You have taken a very clear position on corruption and morals. There is no point in us getting behind any investigative bodies here, we are still asking for a moral assessment of who is responsible. Is the swing responsible, or are you responsible, or is the chancellor responsible? This is inherently an abuse of office. I know that Kiki was a person in the previous government who couldn't be helped because he was special and couldn't be touched. Is it the same way now that you can't touch the swings?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U121	Thank you. First of all, the question of power trading. Trade in influence is prohibited in the Penal Code and is dealt with by law enforcement authorities. If you have any doubts, you can contact the law enforcement authorities who are investigating it. I am not the authority of the law enforcement authorities here to say that one thing or another is [trade in influence]. Now who's responsible was the question. Responsible for the person who injected the vaccine dose. The hospital is responsible and, as I said, according to these guidelines. They have guidelines on how they must be able to justify this. They have probably explained this to the Ministry of Social Affairs, which are the reasons by which they justify it. Of course, I've said this before, that I don't think it's right that there's a way around this line. But in any case, the vaccines should also be used as best as possible. I have also said that the Vaccination Expert Committee should discuss that we also have a strategic frontline, in addition to the other frontline. These are the people on whom the continuity of the state depends, such as the Commander of the Defence Forces, whoever should be on this list, so that the state functions and nothing is missed. But this will be discussed by the Vaccination Expert Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U122	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U123	The next question will be asked by Kalvi Tough and the answer will be Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U124	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Prime Minister! I'm glad Question Time was back on track, and we moved on from the procedure box. I won't ask long, good Prime Minister. This is about the vaccination of educators. When the coronal waves came here, the last ones we wanted to send home for distance training were kindergarten children. People had to go to work, children needed to be kept and raised, and kindergartens were the last thing we wanted to shut down. We don't hear much about kindergarten teachers vaccination today. Good Prime Minister, how about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U125	Thank you for that question. Indeed, the issue of vaccination of educators arose precisely because we want to keep schools open. And in order to keep schools open, teachers must be healthy, because as soon as one teacher becomes ill, the whole school or at least one class must remain in distance training. That is why we discussed whether teachers should also count as frontier workers. The proposals to the panel on vaccination, including the Ministry of Education and Research, were made in different areas. In principle, there were 53 organisations in the field of education, including representatives of early childhood education, general education, vocational schools, student associations, school leaders, and they supported teacher vaccination as a priority. Now, your question was just about kindergarten. We have been talking about schools at the moment, because it has not been a major problem in kindergartens so far for the disease to spread in any way. The teams have been kept very separate. In schools, the problem is greater, as children get in touch with a lot of people outside the school. Therefore, this risk is certainly higher at school. But I'm taking that knowledge with me. I'll ask the Minister of Education and Science for it, just in case. I don't think kindergarten teachers have been left out in any way. If I look at these numbers right now, it says 8,000 kindergarten teachers who should be covered the same way. There are 8,000 kindergarten teachers, 16,000 teachers in general education schools and 2,000 teachers in vocational schools. But just in case, I'm gonna check to see if the kindergarten teachers are still in that amount.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U126	Thank you. As time is running out, please ask the Kalvi Hardy a question that will be very quickly specified. Question one minute and answer one minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U127	Thank you. I'll be quick. Good Echo! I'm glad you bring the kindergarten stuff. Please also bring another subject: salvation, [precisely] voluntary rescuers. There has been no information available since they are being vaccinated. There has been no such talk [hearing]. For example, as a volunteer rescuer, I went three times last year to transport an elderly person in an ambulance, as part of a voluntary rescue. Some volunteers should also be vaccinated. Please bring this subject with you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U128	Thank you. I'll answer very quickly. The subject was discussed, and the Minister of the Interior has proposed that the rescuers be among the [preferably vaccinated]. I don't know if there are volunteer rescuers among them. In any case, I will take note of this information, and when we discuss it, it will certainly be [talk].
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U129	Thank you. I thank the questioners and thank the respondents. Unfortunately, time is up and no more questions can be asked. Question Time is over, and a séance will follow.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U130	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the 4th working week Wednesday session of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. Since yesterday there was a request from the floor that the President have a mask during the chair to be heard better, I hope you will forgive me for being here today without a mask. We also agreed with the sitting department to make it easier to hear. And, as usual, at the beginning of the sitting, it is possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. But first I give the floor to Kalle Grünthal. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U131	Thank you. Mr President, you have now removed the mask, but will you give a guarantee that you will not infect more of your colleagues in this Chamber? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U132	Thank you for this question. This guarantee has been given to me by doctors who have accepted my health and promised to return to my post. Now let's go to the bill delivery. Inquiries, too, if anyone does. Eduard Odines is the first to register. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U133	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is my honour to report to the Minister for Education and Research on the quality of education in the context of the corona crisis. Eleven Social Democrats have signed the inquiry. As we know about the media, studies and also reports from the Ministry of Education and Research, the second year of study, which runs under the conditions of the corona crisis, has left a very deep mark on our education, education system and students. It's probably gonna feel like it for a few more years. The student lag is significant, educational inequality has increased, the psychological condition of the students has deteriorated, the number of students with learning difficulties has multiplied. And all these problems, as I have already said, affect the further development of young people, their prospects for the future. It is clear that we must intervene immediately at national level. We must have a solid plan and resources. And that is why we are presenting an inquiry to the Minister for Education and Research to find out what concrete steps the Ministry of Education and Research is planning to take in order to ensure that the educational inequality does not worsen in the future. Thank you. I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U134	Next, Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U135	Good President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I hand over the draft law amending the Penal Code on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, all associations and associations, including companies and political parties, whose activities involve criminal behaviour, are prohibited. Unfortunately, our legal order was guided by the 2014 reform of the Penal Code, which came into force on 1 January 2015, on the path where the organisation that committed the crime has been rendered unmanageable under the Penal Code and consequently. In this way, a legal situation in society was created which is not in line with the meaning or regulation of the Constitution and is in a screaming way contrary to society's expectations. The purpose of this draft law is to change the situation and restore the possibility of the liquidation of legal persons, including political parties, if they have committed an act of a criminal nature. According to the draft law, the rules of the Penal Code are amended in such a way that the situation prior to 1 January 2015 is substantially restored when the Penal Code contained rules on the compulsory winding-up of legal persons. Political decisions led to these rules being removed from the Penal Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U136	And now Erki Savisaar will join us by electronic means. A word to Erki Savisaar, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U137	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! Due to the early termination of the mandate of Andres Sut, member of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, and on the basis of a proposal from the Reform Party Group, the Monetary Committee decided at its extraordinary session yesterday to give a draft decision of the Riigikogu on the appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. If the Riigikogu supports this draft decision, Jürgen Ligi will be a member of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank instead of Andres Sut. The documents have been transmitted electronically.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U138	Thank you. And now, please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U139	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! I have the honour to present an inquiry on behalf of the group's Social Democrats to the Minister of Culture, Anneli Ot. We would like to know whether the Ministry of Culture has done everything to ensure that cases such as those at the Tartu Art Museum do not happen again, where the family with one parent was humiliated and discriminated against when selling tickets. We want to know what the Ministry of Culture has done to prevent such offences in other public authorities. After all, there are thousands of families in Estonia where raising children is left to one parent. And if we are looking at the current legislation, the museum law clearly states that when setting the price of a museum ticket, a separate price should be set for a ticket, allowing for a common more favourable entrance to the museum for up to two adults with underage children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U140	Please, Marko Mihkelson!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U141	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of 57 members of the Riigikogu, who represent all five political groups here in the Riigikogu, I hand over the draft statement. It is a statement in support of the European Union's common foreign policy and the protection of civil liberties in Russia. Our draft statement has led to, I believe, very well-known events in our neighbouring Russia over the last few weeks. Alexei Navalny's case, but not only in his case, has there been a very strong repressive behaviour that Russia's power structures have implemented against its citizens. Both the imprisonment of Navalny and the treatment of many other political prisoners have shown that Russia, a Member State of the Council of Europe, has been consistently ignoring the commitments it has made internationally since 1996. Another very important and, in terms of focus, perhaps even more important moment in the draft statement is that, in the near future, the foreign ministers and prime ministers of the European Union will review and update the European Union's policy towards Russia. With the adoption of this statement, I hope, as soon as next week, we will certainly also make a contribution by the Riigikogu to shaping a common policy of the European Union that is very important for Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U142	Now, on behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted three drafts and two inquiries. Of course, the Bureau decides on their further processing in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Next, please check your presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U143	91 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 10. We can do our hearing nicely.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U144	Today's first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the law on the implementation of the European Union's common agricultural policy initiated by the Government of the Republic. The Governing Commission has proposed... So, Mr. Randpere, do you have anything to say? You must be on the line electronically. Can we get Mr. Randper's screen?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U145	Thank you. I have a procedural question. I signed up for Question Time in the Chamber, and now that I tried to register for attendance in my office, it didn't work because the system found that I was already there, and opened up to me the opportunity to participate only after the attendance check had ended. I would like to point out that there is such a shortage in the system. I would ask that this system be developed in such a way that, at some point, people are allowed to sign in even if they so wish. They may not be in the Chamber until the end of Question Time and until the beginning of the hearing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U146	Thank you. The session will be held, yes, at 2 p.m. There is no such implementation in Question Time. And if you don't make it, or if someone else in the Riigikogu doesn't have time to press the attendance button at the right moment, or there is some other problem, but the person has got into the system and is taking part in the votes, then that means that the session will be attended. In order to implement the sitting, we simply need to know whether the quorum is together and whether we will be able to start the sitting. Right now, we can start the hearing nicely, but let's check Valdo's statement and technically see what happened there. But we can still go to the hearing. First item: Third reading of the draft law amending the law implementing the common agricultural policy of the European Union initiated by the Government of the Republic. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. But first, as we all know, it is possible for the groups to speak, so if anyone in the groups wishes to speak before the final vote, please give a signal now. No, I don't. Then we go to the final vote. Since we have just carried out a presence check, does the hall agree that we are going to the final vote? I hope that the people who take part in the web will also agree with this. So, I'm going to vote on draft 227. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U147	88 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of adopting the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U148	The second item on today's agenda is the third reading of the draft law amending the law implementing the common agricultural policy of the European Union initiated by the Government of the Republic. Once again, there is the opportunity for the political groups to speak. That is not what we want, so we will go to the final vote. The commission has proposed a final vote of 245 SEs. I shall put this draft to the vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U149	85 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft and there were no respondents or abstentions. Bill 245 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U150	The third item is the third reading of the draft Act 239 amending the VAT Act and the Customs Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the groups want to start negotiations? No, I don't. Then it is proposed that we go to the final vote. The commission's proposal is for a final vote of 239 SEs. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U151	83 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill number 239 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U152	Now draft law amending the Prison Act and related amendments to other laws (transfer of duties of the Detention House) 275. On behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Vilja Toomas will make a presentation at second reading. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U153	Honourable Vice President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! On 19 October 2020, the Government of the Republic initiated the draft law amending the Prison Act and related amendments to other laws (the assignment of the functions of the Detention House). The main objective of the bill is to create the possibility of arresting, in addition to the sentenced and arrested persons, persons who have been arrested for detention in the area, in short, for up to 48 hours, as well as persons who have been sobered up. The first reading of Bill 275 took place on 11 November last year and the deadline for submitting amendments, 25 November neither the political groups nor the members of the Riigikogu submitted proposals for amending the draft. The Legal Affairs Committee also asked the Estonian Bar Association, the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities and the Chamber of Law Enforcement and Bankruptcy Administrators for an opinion on the draft. No draft opinion or draft amendment proposals were submitted by the stakeholders. The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the preparation for the second reading four times: 14 December, 11 and 25 January and 8 February. In addition to members of the Legal Affairs Committee, representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior and the Police and Border Guard Board participated in these meetings. However, one amendment was initiated by the Legal Affairs Committee in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior and the Police and Border Guard Board. The content of the amendment is the updating of the Act's entry into force clause. The proposal provides for the law to enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the State. Now I have four protocols ahead of me, I will try, on the basis of these four protocols, to make a brief overview of our committee's discussions as short as I can. As I said, the first meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs on this subject took place on 14 December last year. Mr Kingo took the floor first, who said that the criminal police officers and police officers involved in the pursuit of the bill would be prevented from carrying out their work in an operational manner, and that the time limits for proceedings would be extended. Both Priit Kama and Veiko Kombusar confirmed that the working conditions of the investigators would not change. The agreement is that the admission and extradition of persons to and from prison is guaranteed 24 hours a day and it is possible to continue to conduct proceedings in prison in exactly the same way as the current Police and Border Guard Board investigators are provided with three additional procedural spaces for conducting studies and operations, in addition to the public premises. There is also a separate room for police officers in Tartu Prison to carry out procedural procedures. There has already been a necessary change in the budget of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and budget resources have been transferred to the Ministry of Justice's budget. Veiko Kombusaar added that the draft rose because almost half of the detention facilities across Estonia stand empty. From the point of view of state money, it is necessary to find a reasonable solution and, as a result of a thorough analysis, it was found that it is possible to bring the detention centre to the prison in Jõhvi and Tartu. It must be said that Jõhvi's detention centre is located in the territory of Viru Prison. Kert Kingo continued his questions and stated that in Tartu, for example, the detention centre was not only a detention place, but the Tartu detention centre was also permanently occupied by police officers and intelligence officers and used half of the detention centre. Veiko Kombusaar commented and replied that the purpose of the detention centre was to be a temporary detention facility and that the Tallinn detention centre, which is located in Rae rural municipality, did not work for researchers. This is an exceptional situation for Tartu that Kert Kingo talked about. Well, that was perhaps the most important thing that took place in the Commission during the negotiations. It was decided to continue the Commission's discussions. No further decisions were taken in this sitting. Let's go to the meeting on 11 January. There, too, Veiko Kombusar explained that the draft has been prepared for a long time and an in-depth analysis of how to organise the work of detention facilities better, bearing in mind that there would not be so much free prison space in Estonia. The draft was motivated by the fact that 40% of prison places in Estonia have not been filled and there is no need for such a large number of prison places. Kert Kingo announced that he visited the Tartu Prison and the detention centre. Veiko Kombusaar reported that the visit with Kert Kingo gave the authorities assurances that sufficient interrogation rooms had been provided to the investigators. Investigators will have access to the Home Office networks and will have access to working documents and databases. Investigators can calmly deliver prisoners who used to be in the prison area and, in addition, they also create recreation facilities for researchers. Kert Kingo asked how it would make a citizen's life better. Veiko Kombusar replied that the bill did not make anything worse from the point of view of the victim of the crime. For example, in a situation where there is an urgent need to clarify the testimony of the victim and of the prisoner and when it is necessary to bring persons to the Tartu Police House, the conditions for temporary detention are available at the Tartu Police House and the working conditions of the investigators are guaranteed. Veiko Kombusar admitted that some improvements were needed in construction, but this will be done. Video interrogations are guaranteed, both in detention centres and in prisons. Kert Kingo kept asking questions. The prison's internal rules provide that it is prohibited to be intoxicated in the territory of the prison. From Tartu Prison, a direct line would be to the sobering house, where drunk persons would be taken. Veiko Kombusar replied that this is why the Prison Act is being amended so that groups of persons who cannot now be detained on prison territory can be detained in the future. Those who need to be detained and who are intoxicated would certainly be in separate sections. Urve Tiidus asked whether this change concerns only Tartu and Jõhvi and what happens to smaller cities. Veiko Kombusaar confirmed that indeed, this concerns Viru Prison and Tartu Prison and that in smaller places short-term detention places remain. Paul Puustusmaa noted that the faction of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia is team-oriented, but there is currently an internal disagreement about this draft that needs to be resolved. Only then will the group as a whole be able to move forward on this issue. Veiko Kombusar explained the answer to the question put by Jaanus Kariladi. Jaanus Karilaid asked if the representatives of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice could once again bring out the good ideas for which we are working on this bill. Veiko Kombusaar confirmed that life will be safer in Estonia, as those workers who are currently guarding the prisons can go to the streets to ensure safety. The Chancellor of Justice's comments on the conditions of detention in Estonia cannot be overlooked either. Prisons are in a very good position in the context of guaranteeing fundamental rights. The conditions of the detention houses have been improved in time, but the conditions are not as good as in prisons. Liisa Abel added that the European Committee for Torture and Inhuman or Humility Treatment or Penalty Burden has pointed out that in Estonia, in the context of human rights, the conditions of detention are not guaranteed exactly as necessary. And if these human rights are not respected, prisoners can turn to the European Court of Human Rights to defend their rights. This could result in huge claims for damages. Estonia wishes to be a country that respects human rights. We did not reach any procedural decisions in this committee session either; it was simply decided that we would talk more. Then let the EKRE Group get over its differences. The third meeting took place on 25 January. There was a relatively short debate in this session and we went to the procedural decisions. Before that, Mr Kingo announced that he would withdraw from the Commission's role as rapporteur. Mr Kingo said that he did not support the content of the draft and that it would therefore be difficult for him to present the draft. To that end, Jaanus Karilaid suggested that Vilja Thomas be appointed as the new waitress. Decisions taken at this meeting: to propose a draft to be put on the plenary agenda by 10 February, that is to say, today. There were six members of the Legal Affairs Committee: Marek Jürgenson, Jaanus Karilaid, Toomas Kivimägi, Heljo Pikhof, Urve Tiidus and Vilja Toomas. Against two: Kert Kingo and Paul Puustusmaa, with one abstention: Tarmo Kruusimäe. The second point in the decision was to propose that the second reading be stopped. There were six votes in favour: again Marek Jürgenson, Jaanus Karilaid, Toomas Kivimägi, Heljo Pikhof, Urve Tiidus, Vilja Toomas. Kert Kingo and Paul Puustusmaa opposed and Tarmo Kruusimäe abstained. Third decision: when the second reading is closed, propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 17 February and that a final vote be taken. Six sides: Marek Jürgenson, Jaanus Karilaid, Toomas Kivimägi, Heljo Pikhof, Urve Tiidus and Vilja Toomast, two against Kert Kingo and Paul Puustusmaa. There was one abstention: Tarmo Kruusimäe. And fourth point: To appoint Vilja Thomas as waitress. All members of the Commission were in favour of this decision. And now the last meeting of the Commission that took place this week on Monday, or 8 February. Then we simply confirmed the documents to be submitted to the large hall for second reading. It was also the whole decision, and it was made by consensus. That's all for me.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U154	You have questions too. Kalle Grünthal will begin. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U155	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I have visited almost all prisons in Estonia in my previous profession, and I have visited many detention facilities as a protector. That is why I know how important it is to have an operational opportunity to interrogate suspects of crime. Given that people are now being moved to a different region and that it relates to transport, and given the volume of things currently under investigation, I would very much like to know exactly how much the budgetary cost of transporting these prisoners will increase. And the other part of the question is that, as we know, under the Prison Prison Act, no drinkers are allowed to stay in prison territory. It turns out from your explanation that you're changing it and making a new section. Does the law of imprisonment, then, make it possible to make distinctions in this approach?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U156	I'll start with the back section of this drunken person in prison territory. Indeed, the law introduces a statement that people who are brought sober may be present in premises intended for short - term detention. A separate section means that these parts of the prison's territory are being rebuilt a little bit, and those who are sober are being detained in other premises or in another section, what do we call it? As ordinary prisoners, including those who carry punishment. Now the first half of the question is how operational this work organisation is and how much transport costs are increasing. According to my information, as far as the Commission is concerned, the cost of freezing and other detention will be reduced by EUR 1 million per year in the coming years. From the current budget, a large amount of approximately EUR 800000 is transferred from the Ministry of the Interior to the Ministry of Justice's budget. And as I said, police forces will be released who can be patrolled by not having to keep so many police officers in different detentions. I hope I answered you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U157	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U158	Good manager! Good waitress! Yes, everything can be explained: why the change is useful and whether the investigators have to work here or there or how far from downtown there must be an institution. But often people don't talk about things that float in the distance. I'm staying in Tartu. As we know, both in Tallinn and in Tartu, the police must find new spaces. My question is: is the abolition of the current detention facility in Tartu somehow linked to this new vision, where there should be some buildings? Is this a race solution that is really behind real estate developments and also the expansion of the Southern Centre? Has this been mentioned at these numerous meetings?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U159	The short answer would be that this was not discussed in the Commission and I know nothing about real estate developments. At the same time, it is not really known whether the State Real Estate Company will sell the Tartu Detention House or not. Both the Tartu Detention House and the Jõhvi Detention House belong to the State Real Estate Company. It is up to them to decide that this was not mentioned in the Commission. The detention centre of Jõhvi is physically located in the territory of Viru Prison anyway. The main motive, I repeat, if I may have explained it very vaguely before, was that since both Viru Prison and Tartu Prison have a small fulfillment of 20% at Viru Prison and Tartu Prison has a bit more, it makes no sense to maintain a separate detention centre. It's expensive. And like I said, that's where the police will be released. Secondly, every year, a million euros of free money is released to the state budget, which can be used for other security purposes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U160	Imre Sooäär online, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U161	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! Did the Commission discuss or does the Commission have any insight into the situation of the same prisons in our neighbouring countries? I am thinking in particular of our neighbouring countries in the European Union. My question is motivated by the fact that recently there have been articles on the common media and opinions that we already have such a good situation that it is better to get a plate for some small thing. You can eat three times a day and take care of yourself. It's really good to be out in a 15-degree cold. What is the situation in relation to our northern neighbours in particular? I assume that the European Union's requirements in our prisons have been met long ago anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U162	Thank you for your question. As I said, indeed, the situation in Estonia's prisons, after all, we have recently built several new prisons, indeed, has improved a great deal. There was a brief discussion about the Finnish state, although in this context, Finland also has a house of detention and a prison in the same building. There was no debate on more countries in the Commission. But whether or not someone wants to make crooks to get into prison, where they have the right to three meals a day, we can just hang out. This was not a seriously discussed issue in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U163	Peter Ernits, please, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U164	I didn't ask about Jõhvi, I just wanted to talk about Tartu. You mentioned that there is plenty of room in prisons in the newer days, and now we're taking the detention house there in Tartu, but there's still room left. Has it been discussed in the Commission that perhaps the Penal Code should be seriously reworked so that more sections can be found to send more people to prison? Then it wouldn't be the problem of just heating up and guarding these rooms. And the second question. Now, if they're taking the impound there, that's really a very small part of it, so there's still room left. Was it also discussed that other institutions, which also require proper guarding and warm rooms, could be taken there? I'm only staying in Tartu right now, at Tartu Prison.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U165	So let's take Tartu Prison, although I think that the answer is general. No, indeed, the Commission did not discuss what else could be transferred there. It was discussed that when the detention centre was transferred there, conditions would be created for all investigators and practitioners and so on. However, there was no debate in the Commission in order to bring a few more bodies separately. The second question concerned whether, as it were, more crimes should be fabricated. I do not know, my thinking cannot reach this point, and I hope that the thoughts of no other member of the Committee on Legal Affairs will move on this path.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U166	Kalle Grünthal, please, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U167	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! My question is motivated by the question of Peeter Ernitsa, what will happen to the Tartu Detention House, which will be done with it. Your answer was that it's their business what they do with it, either selling out or something else. My question is, let's say, a little emotional, but also very topical. It is no secret to anyone that political parties in the government are flooded with corruption scandals. And that is why I ask you whether the Commission or you personally have examined who is behind this possible influence, so that the plot released from the Tartu Detention Centre could become a business object of some kind. Well, let's just say, have you checked the background? Is it possible that corruption deals are involved?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U168	Thank you. I didn't say it was the detention house's business. I replied very accurately that the Tartu Detention House belongs to Riigi Kinnisvara AS and that Riigi Kinnisvara AS decides what to do with it. On the other side of the question, I can only answer that I do not believe that the Committee on Legal Affairs is an investigative body. We're not gonna find out if anyone wants to do corrupt land deals or not. This has not been considered necessary by the Commission and was indeed not investigated by the Commission. I can read once again this tirate, which is the purpose of the draft, for which these laws are being amended. I can start over, or you can read the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U169	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U170	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! It also turned out that underperformance was a problem. In quite a number of countries, shock-free tourism is promoted. In difficult times, when a new race comes, we're gonna have a tight place to spend the night. We could offer that opportunity. Maybe we should approach that way. At the same time, can lifelong prisoners have reasonable expectations that the old building will not be sold? And are they going to be selling prison shares to people in prison for life?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U171	Thank you for your question. I can say again that these things were not discussed in the Commission. Indeed it was. And I don't know what else you're gonna answer. Prison units? Okay, let's talk about it in the hallway.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U172	I'm sure that's a good suggestion. Helle-Moonika Helme, please, your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U173	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I would ask such a question, it is again a specific question about Tartu Prison. According to the rules so far, if there was an incident during the weekend or during the evening, the victim could turn to the detention facility, where there are security investigators who carry out all sorts of activities. Let's say, when some kind of company was stopped, the victim was able to identify on site that this was the person who attacked me. How's it going to be under the new regime now? Does the victim have to go to a prison where all the possibilities that have so far been in a detention facility are available? But in Tartu, there is a specific situation that if, until now, this accessibility was humane, then Tartu Prison is located relatively far away by the city and for the victims, the victims of the crime will find themselves in a very uncomfortable situation. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U174	Thank you. Well, we all know how big the city of Tartu is. Less than five kilometres between the old detention centre and Tartu Prison is not such a long way that the victims cannot go there. According to this bill, and also confirmed by representatives of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior, victims will continue to have 24/7 access, just as it is now. Only the location has changed. The detention house where people have wanted to turn is still in place, only it will be located on the territory of the Tartu Prison. That's all the difference.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U175	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U176	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good waitress! I ask you to clarify this vision. When I was still on the Committee on Legal Affairs, and I didn't get any exhaustive answers, I heard officials talk about such a beautiful round. Does this bill really foresee that the victim will travel five kilometres during the night, which may not be so much distance in Tallinn's sense, but in Tartu the prison is practically located in a wasteland, near the city. And now the victim has to walk there at night, for example, after he was kidnapped, and walk back in the dark at night? Or how is this going to work? Is there somewhere to be transported to the victim immediately after the criminal offence? Because, as we know, where these workers have been transferred, there is only a temporary, maximum possibility of detention within an hour or two. Is that exactly what they said?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U177	Thank you. We did not really discuss how police officers do their daily work. If the sufferer wants to go to the police, he has different options. Either he calls the police and the police come to him, he waits at home, or he goes there sometime to report a crime and testify. Indeed, we did not discuss such details of police work during the procedure of this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U178	Kert Kingo, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U179	I will say so much as a comment that we are talking about the content of the draft law, but you did not discuss who was specifically concerned. I do have a question. You noted earlier that the police officers released in the form of the officers of the detention facility could be assigned to patrol duty. In the Tartu detention centre and in general, most of the detention centres are occupied by people who have retired from the police; they are of average age, I think, 60 years. They don't qualify for patrol anymore. We talked about that in the Legal Affairs Committee, maybe you had one. What did they say about where they're going to work?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U180	How do I answer that? I say that there are indeed police officers of different ages and status. Of course, the purpose of this bill is not to send people on police pensions to patrol the streets, but the police will release free resources in the form of both money and people, and they will be able to make their own adjustments. I do not remember that at this committee meeting we would have relocated police officers. That would be beyond our jurisdiction. How the police organise their work, where they put people to work, who they send on patrol is up to him. In my opinion, it would not have made sense if we had dealt with things for which we did not have competence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U181	Thank you, good waitress, no more questions for you. Before we go to the negotiations, I'll let you know that we specified Valdo Randpere's technical problem. Ladies and gentlemen, on this side of the screen! Please keep in mind that if you come into this hall and check in and then go to a remote hearing, you should take out your card. Otherwise, you, like, will be present in this hall and will also participate electronically, indeed, two places cannot be present at once. So, leaders of the political groups, please pass on information to the political groups so that everyone has the same understanding: there can be only one place. Now it's time for negotiations. Mr Kingo has expressed his wish to speak first. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U182	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Laws are being amended with the aim of improving or clarifying or clarifying a provision. The draft law 275, which transfers the functions of the Tartu and Jõhvi detention centre to local prisons, does not fulfil either of these objectives. The transfer of custody duties to prisons has been justified by the need to save state expenditure. In introducing the draft law committee, it was explained that both Jõhvi and Tartu detention houses are underburdened, as there are very few prisoners and sober persons, only a few. Empty houses are fired and employees are paid a salary, even though there is no job. At the same time, they say there's a lot of empty space in prison. Everything sounds logical and reasonable. However, these arguments do not fully correspond to reality. The Tartu detention centre has four floors with the basement floor. The two upper floors of the building have been occupied by criminal police officers, investigators and stalkers since the building was completed. I, too, have owned a work office in this building working as a detective in the criminal police of Tartu. This work organisation and the location of the premises were well thought out and for good reason introduced. Criminal police officers had easy operations with a criminal arrested or sobered up when he was on the lower floor of the same building. It did not take too much time to go from point A to point B or to wait for it to pass through the inspection gate. Similarly, the work was organised in Jõhvi detention centre and is located in most other detention centres. The aim is to ensure that the criminal police act as quickly as possible and detect criminal offences. The location of the police headquarters in Tartu was chosen as close as possible to the detention centre. Still so that the police can do their job as effectively as possible. I am speaking in a form of the past because, although there is a second reading of this draft in the Chamber today, in reality it has already brought about and is still undergoing planned restructuring without a valid law. What is the result of this bill becoming a law? I can tell you. As a result of restructuring, citizens suffer from a sense of security and security. Investigators and trackers are running out of time to travel from one side of town to another for the sake of operations, as well as waiting for a pass at the entrance to the prison. This will lead to an increase in the time limits for proceedings. Does this mean that the procedures that have been running for an average of 2 to 3 years are history and that 4 to 5 years of pre-trial proceedings will be new to normality? Probably! Let's see, let's see, let's see, Since both short-term prisoners and drunken persons are now being transported to prison, you can imagine what will happen. Prison's gonna be a passageway. How effective can it be to guard prison territory in such circumstances? Definitely significantly less effective than it has been so far. As a result, the citizens of the city of Tartu suffer because the hometown is no longer safe. They can't feel safe enough in their own home. I very much hope that this unthinkable reorganisation, which destroys the operationality of the criminal police, is not the cause of the land on which the Tartu detention centre is located and which has longed for many businessmen for years. Well, that's what the future's gonna show. Because of the above, the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party does not support this bill and asks for the second reading of Bill 275 to be interrupted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U183	Thank you. There are no more requests for negotiation. But we need to examine the amendments. The Committee on Legal Affairs has tabled one amendment, which was introduced to you by the rapporteur, and the lead committee has taken full account of it. We have examined the amendments. As the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party has proposed to interrupt the second reading of the draft 275, we must vote on it. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that we are discussing the amendment of the Prisoning Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws by number 275 and the Conservative People's Party of Estonia have proposed that the reading of the draft be interrupted. I will put to the vote before you the proposal of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia to interrupt the second reading of the draft Act amending the Prison Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-10_U184	This proposal was supported by 18 members of the Riigikogu, 56 against. The proposal was not supported. The second reading of the draft act 275 amending the Prison Act and related amendments to other laws has been completed. We have exhausted today's agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, work hard! I'll see you tomorrow morning at 10:00.
