ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U1	Good fellows, honourable Riigikogu, good afternoon! We will begin the Monday session of the 17th working week of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Please, Eduard Odines!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U2	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Thank you. On behalf of the Socialists, I would like to report an inquiry to the Minister of Education and Science, Liina Kersna. This concerns a ghost that goes around Estonia, and it is a sneaky paid higher education. We want to find out what possible steps the Ministry of Education and Research will take in the near future to ensure the sustainability of higher education in order to ensure a competitive pay for teaching staff. How does the Ministry feel about the fact that more and more universities apply paid higher education to Estonian-language curricula? Whether the Ministry plans to reduce or increase the volume of curricula where money is to be paid and how much burden then in such a situation... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Thank you, Mr President. ... and how much burden does such a situation fall on students and their parents? Or are there other ways to get additional money in higher education, for example by involving more entrepreneurship? Similarly, we are interested in what additional steps the Ministry intends to take to support students. Are there plans to reform the system of student loans and grants and, if so, in what way? We also want to understand the percentage of funding for higher education and the absolute figures in the country's budget strategy, because it does not now appear there. We are concerned about funding higher education, we are concerned about sneaking paid higher education, and we want to ask the Minister of Education about these issues also in this big hall. Thank you. A digital enquiry has been made.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U3	Are you sure this is presented digitally? Your word? Please check it out. So, is there any more? The members of the Riigikogu have no more wishes. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Government of the Republic of Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U4	Honourable Chairman! Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching five draft laws today. First, a draft law amending the Land Valuation Act, Land Tax Act and other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of State Administration in the proceedings of the draft law. Secondly, the draft law amending the Penal Code and other laws. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance. Thirdly, the draft law supplementing the Police and Border Guard Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of the Interior in the proceedings of the draft law. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Public Information Act. And fifthly, the draft law amending the State Secrets and the Secret Foreign Information Act and the Public Information Act. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Justice in the proceedings of the above two draft laws in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U5	Dear colleagues, on behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one inquiry and five drafts. The Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Let's go through the presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U6	83 members of the Riigikogu registered as present and no 18. We now come to the adoption of today's agenda, we must vote on it. But just as it has become a good practice, there are some procedural questions before. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U7	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I want to congratulate you on the high national award you received from the President. This list is undoubtedly long and certainly includes your agreement with the WHO on vaccines, as well as the expulsion of the EKRE from the government. Happy birthday to you! My heartfelt congratulations! And I am also very pleased that you have also responded to the request that all speakers be heard in the back of the Chamber. Thank you and my sincere congratulations.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U8	Thank you! Indeed, along with the EKRE, the Fatherland and the Centre Party, we decided to sign this agreement with the WHO on 1 October 2020. So I also congratulate the coalition partners at the time, the EKRE and the Fatherland and the Centre Party. But actually, congratulations should be made to Enn Frontland today. Congratulations, good member of the Riigikogu, on your cradle day! [[Let's hear it in the hall.]] And there is another nice surprise: from the balcony of the Riigikogu the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Cyprus will look at the beginning of our meeting today. Cyprus is our good ally in the European Union. So welcome to Foreign Minister Nikos Christodoulides! [[Let's hear it in the hall.]] With such exciting and wonderful news, we can move on. Urmas Reinsalu, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U9	I don't know where to start. First of all, force for the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Cyprus! He's a good man, and he's been good with him. Then there's a lot of strength for Jüri Ratas and all the boyfriends from last week! And, of course, to Enu! Congratulations, Enn, on the 75th anniversary!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U10	Thank you. Let's keep going. At the moment, Mr Põllea will not receive a speech; we are at the time of the adoption of the agenda. So I will start preparing the vote on the adoption of the agenda. But, Paul Puustusmaa, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U11	I'm sorry, but it's just the issue on the agenda. As far as I know, Mr Põllea has a question from the political group regarding the agenda. If we confirm, it's like we're gonna miss it. He probably didn't just put on a black hand, he pressed the other button. But I believe Henn has the right to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U12	Thank you for mediating this! Really, there was no hand. After all, this new system requires this hand, and Mr. Pierce now put this hand in his hand. I thought he just wanted to take the floor, but there is no round of questions or negotiations right now. But thank you for helping us with this procedural question in the implementation of the sitting. And please, Henn Põllaas, a procedural question. As Mr Pulpland said, on behalf of the group.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U13	Thank you. I will speak on behalf of the EKRE Group. We have not come directly to the approval of this agenda, but a little prematurely: has item 366 SE been taken out this week...? No, he's not, he's in, yeah, sorry. I didn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U14	Answer to you: At the moment in this draft agenda, which is intended for the 17th working week of the plenary session of the Riigikogu, the draft law, i.e. 366 SE, has been mentioned as the third item on 9 June, where we wish to carry out a second reading, Mr Põlluaas. Kalle Grünthal, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U15	Thank you, Mr President. When our group president, Henn Põljaas, was concerned with Amendment 366,, he did so very rightly, because during the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs there was a violation of the Law on Home and Rules of Procedure. Let me give you a brief description of this. The point is that, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, a number of ECREs and individual amendments proposed by me were joined together in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] And the thing is, it was treated as a draft in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. So, let's say, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, who has the right and the power to join the amendments, did not do so. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] We are now in a situation where we do not know who on the village street has brought these things together and given them to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to deal with them. The fact that it was subsequently confirmed does not nullify the previous process. In other words, half of the amendments have been dealt with illegally and the Home and Working Procedures Act has been violated. I therefore have a suggestion that we cannot discuss this item in any way today, because we who are lawmakers must be a model for others when we initiate and carry out the legislative process. So maybe Henn Põllamaas would also like to make a request from a political group on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U16	Got it. Thank you. I think it's a whole new habit, but maybe it's not bad that a procedural question is being brought up by a number of previous questioners. I'm sure it has its charm. I mean, first of all, I think you are not talking about Amendment 366, but you are talking about the draft law 366. Secondly, we are not discussing this today. If we approve this agenda, it will be on the Wednesday agenda. But as you said, I have no problem giving Henn Põllea the right to ask this procedural question if she wishes. In no way can the President force a member of the Riigikogu to ask a procedural question. Paul Woodland, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U17	Thank you very much, Mr President. In fact, I have a relatively simple question: has the EKRE Group's statement on today's agenda been received by the Bureau?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U18	I have not received such a statement from the EKRE Group. Kalle Grünthal, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U19	Thank you, Mr President. The reference on your part that we are only discussing Bill 366 on Wednesday is, of course, correct, but if we approve the agenda today, it will automatically go into the process, and it will go into the procedure illegally. The problem is that I do not consider it right, say parliamentary law, legislation, that we pay absolutely no attention to such important nuances. And, as far as I know, there should also be a protest against the conduct of this sitting before the Riigikogu. I am now asking that before we approve this agenda, the Management Board of the Riigikogu review our protest on the conduct of this sitting.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U20	Thank you. First of all, about this protest. After this question, which was, or during your procedural question, the information really came that your group's advisor had taken the statement of protest in writing to the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. So when it gets there, we'll definitely watch it. I agree with you that, of course, committees and this House must be governed by the Home and Working Procedures Act, but they also follow the practice we have used both in this House and in the committees. This, of course, must be in accordance with the law. I have now received a letter signed by Helle-Moonika Helme, vice-chairman of the Group, which is therefore a protest. So this letter has now been received. Mart Helme, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U21	Thank you. I ask that this protest be taken into account and that the chair discuss it. Until the Bureau has discussed this, I do not believe that it is possible that we will approve the weekly agenda on this point, which is currently under discussion. I do not want to threaten here in any way, but since we are constantly being assured that Estonia is a rule of law, it is not possible that the legislator will do the sort of breach that must then be challenged in court.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U22	Thank you. I also think that we should do our job so that we do not have to go to court with our subjects. The Bureau of the Riigikogu has also received an explanation from the Chairman of the Constitutional Committee concerning this draft 366. He assures the Management Board of the Riigikogu that the draft law amending the Law on identity documents and the related amendment of other laws is about this 366 SE to prepare for second reading in the Constitutional Committee on 3 and 4 June at extraordinary sessions held in full compliance with the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, including the hearing of the authors of amendments and the binding of amendments and voting. The Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Toomas Kivimägi, has signed. And now your protest has come. It is, in fact, the case that these matters must be examined by the lead committee; he will make his proposals to the House and also to the Bureau. But let's keep going. Kalle Grünthal, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U23	Yes, I am also aware that Toomas Kivimägi promised to make such a statement. But the question now is that, as we know, the situation is such that you cannot ignore the flagrant violation of the procedural rules in the Estonian Constitutional Committee, referring only to the position of Toomas Kivimäe. Consideration should be given to the views expressed by both parties and to the minutes. It's not a one-minute question. However, I ask that some sort of break be taken and that the Board of the Riigikogu be convened to resolve the issue that is currently on the table.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U24	Thank you. I am based on the fact that if we look into the law on our home and working procedures and also into our practice, we can say that the committees actually have very wide self-regulation rights when they organise their work. This is also the reason why the Riigikogu Board does not interfere in the work of committees, in their substantive decisions. That is what the Commission is doing. I think this should also be the basis for this. But, of course, this protest is in place under the direction of the Riigikogu, and the Riigikogu Board will certainly deal with it. I'm sorry, I'm gonna jump over everything now, because, in fact, Henn Põljaas is waiting a long time for his procedural question to be settled. I saw his hand, too. So, Henn Põllamaas, please, you have the word.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U25	Thank you. I don't really have a procedural question, that's why I kept...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U26	Ow, it went wrong. All right, I'm sorry! But let's keep going. . [[Voices in the Chamber]] Yes, but we cannot go to the agenda until all procedural questions are asked and answered. [[A voice from the hall.]] Got it. We will also come to the proposals when the time is right. Paul Woodland, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U27	Thank you very much, good George. I deeply appreciate your ability to convince our people of what is right, what is wrong. But right now, I'm putting my courage together and reminding you that Article 13 of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure gives you the right and authority to regulate matters that are not directly regulated in the Rules of Procedure Act. This is particularly necessary in order to guarantee the legitimacy of the decisions of the Riigikogu. In this case, if we are left with different opinions in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it cannot be concluded that one opinion is more correct than the other, but the contradiction with the Constitution may be very obvious. This is the kind of good suggestion that in fact, the Riigikogu Board could take ten to fifteen minutes of break and consider the idea of excluding this disputed draft law from the agenda, and we could move forward very happily, very quickly, so everyone is happy to be.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U28	Thank you, Mr. Woodland! In any case, I'm on the same page as you, so we should go on happily, so everyone's having a good time, and we're on the same page. But in this case, it is not up to the Riigikogu's board to decide or regulate, it is up to the commission to decide and regulate, including the organisation of the committee's work when dealing with amendments. Peter Ernits, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U29	Thank you, Mr President, and ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U30	I'm so sorry! Quiet in the hall, please! Let's listen, please, to the questioners and respect them, and whoever doesn't want to get out of the hall. Please, Mr. Ernits!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U31	I can wait. Ladies and gentlemen, if you'll stop talking for a moment, I'll ask if I may. Good manager! It seems to me that the problem really is that if one group thinks that not all good legislative practices have been taken into account here, but the chairman of the Constitutional Affairs Committee has confirmed in writing that everything is actually okay, should the President of the Riigikogu not, however, take the board of the Riigikogu and ask whether Estonia is still a rule of law that was originally hoped for here?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U32	Thank you. I do not have this feeling today that if you ask the members of the Board of the Riigikogu, they would say that Estonia is not the rule of law. Or at least we haven't had a conversation where no one would have said that Estonia is not the rule of law. So, in this sense, there can be a calm Estonia is the rule of law. And if there are disputes... I understand what's going on right now. On the one hand, the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party says that they are not satisfied with the processing of the Bill 366; on the other hand, the Chairman of the Commission says that everything is legitimate. This is a decision at the level of the lead committee on how to proceed with the draft, and I think that the Commission will certainly be able to discuss this protest and this letter from the chairman of the committee at its next session. But let's go calmly from here and, as Mr. Pulpland said, cheerfully and pleasantly on! Kalle Grünthal, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U33	Thank you, Mr President. I think we have no dispute that our activities are taking place here under the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. I think we also have no dispute that § 102 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure also provides for the processing of the draft by the leading committee between the first and second readings. According to this, the commission draws up a list of amendments to the draft for a second reading. And paragraph 2 of the same section says that amendments which are identical and which are essentially related to each other are included in the list of amendments in a single proposal. We have no argument here. But the argument arises because, if, let's say, these amendments are being dealt with by the lead committee, at this point in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, a draft drawn up by someone who has not been approved by the lead committee has been dealt with. And now, if we come back to the functions of the Riigikogu's board, let's say that § 13 20 says nicely that the Board of the Riigikogu will, if necessary, convene the representatives of the political groups to hear their views on matters relating to the organisation of the work of the Riigikogu. I think that this should be done, because otherwise we will introduce tactics in the Riigikogu, that committees can do anything and the Riigikogu Board will not interfere with it. I think it is the Bureau's aim and duty to ensure that all procedures in committees are correct. Please take a break, consult the management board of the Riigikogu initially and then shape your position! We can't go on like this, Reverend Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U34	Honourable Grünthal! I thank you very much for this thorough review, but I say that I am sticking to my opinion that I do not see that this protest or these protests can be resolved by the Riigikogu Board. This is the task of the lead committee. And if we also look at the practice of the management of the Riigikogu, the practice of organisation of work, it is always said in such protests: it is the task of the commission. We are also given the opportunity by the Law on Home and Rules of Procedure to propose that if anyone in the political groups wishes to change the agenda. This is the time before the agenda, we have not yet decided so that you and your group can make this proposal if you do not want to discuss this draft this week. Paul Woodland, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U35	Thank you very much. I have a procedural question and I now have a desire to address your great and kind conscience, because I know that you love the Estonian Constitution very much. And the Estonian Constitution clearly states that justice is also important for us, not just right. You said earlier that we couldn't interfere with the committees. In fact, I am referring to the fact that the right of discretion conferred on the Commission does exist and is very wide, but it does not allow, or at least the governing board of the Riigikogu should not allow for violations of the Constitution. In this case, we are not just talking about discretion, but it is a question of breaking the Constitution. Therefore, it is very competent to address the board with a request to review this moment and to avoid violating the Constitution, in order to avoid violating the rights of members of the Riigikogu, to take a moment off and announce in five minutes that we can remove this item from the agenda. And we can go on happily and amusingly.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U36	Thank you. I hope we don't go sadly and unhappyly ahead of here. This letter has come, the Board of the Riigikogu will certainly look at it, but once again I say: in terms of the agenda, also in terms of procedure procedures, it is up to the leading committee who has made its decisions. Those decisions have been made. Just as I said to Mr Grünthal, I would also say to you that every group, after all, allows this to be done by our law on home and working procedures, we can propose that we do not discuss this item this week. There's a chance. I'm not calling it out, but it's your right to make that suggestion, if that's what you want. We're all waiting, Mr. Pier had to have an interesting proposal, but no one knows exactly what it is yet. But soon it will be on the table. Let's go! A procedural question, Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U37	Thank you, good Chairman. This proposal is definitely coming, but I would first like to describe another precedent. You can, of course, say as President-in-Office whether this is or not, but in another committee, namely the Committee on Culture, we were dealt with in the same way, and then there was a protest and the Committee on Culture did drop the whole process. It was said that we cannot move forward until the Riigikogu Board has discussed this protest at its Thursday meeting or session. That's why the process was delayed for a week and a half. I'm wondering why we can't do this now. Indeed, take this break now, or how you have these sessions, tomorrow or Thursday, discuss this protest, and then we will move on to this issue. But right now, we're taking it off the agenda!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U38	Thank you. I understand that this example of the Committee on Culture, which you have given, was an example at the level of the Commission. If I've got it right. At the moment, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is not debating, but it is being held by the House. And I promised that the Executive Board of the Riigikogu would definitely review the letters that come to the Riigikogu Board... But I'm not interrupting you right now, you can have your conversation, and then I can answer you. No, I'm not interrupting you. I just wanted to say that. And to remove this from the agenda, I say that there is this opportunity, the group has the opportunity to propose it. Mart Helme, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U39	In my opinion, Mr President-in-Office, we are talking about one garden and one garden hole. We are not talking here about the extent to which the Commission has the autonomy to decide on its own procedures. We are talking about the fact that one group and its representatives who participated in these meetings are saying something quite different from the chairman of the committee. Given that there is a very clear dispute here, there has been a protest and a proposal is now being made to withdraw this particular draft from this week's work programme, subject to the Bureau being able to discuss this, provided that it is possible to clear these contradictions at the next meetings of the Commission and then return to the Chamber with the draft. I think it's a perfectly sound approach. We do not want to accept in any way that there is a road roll crossing here and that the chairman of the committee has decided so, if you would welcome or resent me. No, we really resent you. And I think it would make much more sense for us to take this draft out of this week's work programme in view of the work of the entire Riigikogu for the next two weeks and move on next week instead of having to start dissuading all the work and putting everything else on hold here. I think it makes more sense to compromise now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U40	Thank you. I agree with this end in any case that compromises must be sought, if at all possible. Absolutely sincere! This proposal, which you have said, to withdraw this draft from the agenda, I think it can be done for a very short time by a group, one in five. And when it's done, we're going to vote on it in this Chamber. Kalle Grünthal, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U41	Thank you, Mr President. The question is now, the debate is whether our protest, the EKRE protest, is appropriate and correct, and the dispute is whether the communication sent by the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on this issue is correct. And as I understand it, you alone intend to decide this issue here. I would point out that § 13 provides for the duties of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu. This means that for all other matters which are not regulated by law, if certain procedural issues are not provided for in our domestic and operational procedures, item 18 does not give you the sole right to decide on this matter. It is only the competence of the Riigikogu's board of directors. The fact that you are the Chairman of the Board of the Riigikogu does not matter now. Now if you tell me clearly which letter or point of law is your sole right to resolve this issue, I am very grateful.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U42	Thank you, Mr Grünthal. I never said that. I have said that the Board of the Riigikogu will certainly discuss this letter, and I hope that we can do so already when we have a meeting of the Board tomorrow or this week. I never once claimed that I alone would decide that. I'm gonna do a test now. I really am very interested in this proposal by Mr Põllea, but I understand that his colleagues will not allow him to bring it to the table yet. A procedural question, Paul Puustusmaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U43	Thank you very much, George. You have led the Riigikogu here with a great deal of knowledge and experience, and I firmly believe your words if you say no to me now. If tomorrow the Riigikogu Board has discussed this and found that it is indeed an offence, can Jüri confirm that we will then change the agenda of the week?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U44	Thank you. As you know, Mr Puustusmaa, because of our organisation of work, the commission of directors is always entitled to make decisions on the drafts that we are discussing here. It is the right of the commission to self-regulate; it organises its own work. But this letter, which has been sent to the Bureau, the Bureau will certainly discuss, he will look at this letter, of course. Mart Helme, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U45	Thank you. I will come back again: we are not questioning the autonomy of the committees. We are now discussing the procedure for handling this protest and it is quite cynical to say to us that we will certainly discuss it when we find time, either on Tuesday or Thursday, and we will see. What is the point of this debate if we now endorse the agenda in a form that does not take into account the protest of our group?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U46	Thank you. Once again, for my sake, we can discuss this at the Bureau meeting tomorrow, but there are two other people on the board besides me. And I also want to say what I said to Mr Pulpland: the lead committee has always the right to withdraw the draft from the agenda, it is always the right to propose that the procedure be suspended. These are the powers of the commission that we have granted by the law on domestic and operating procedures. And now the seventh procedural question from Kalle Grünthal. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U47	I thank you, Mr President, for this excellent explanation that the lead committee always has the right to resolve all issues independently, to put in, to take out. Does this mean that whatever the commission decides, it takes precedence over what the members of the Riigikogu think when they see procedural violations? Can the Board of the Riigikogu not take any position on this so-called point of appeal, as the President of the Riigikogu's sitting says that I will decide this way?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U48	Thank you. When we talk about supremacy in the organisation of the work of the Riigikogu, this right is certainly in the House. Mr. Fieldace, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U49	I don't know if you've gotten your agenda straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U50	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U51	That's great. In this case, in view of what my good colleagues have said, by which they all protested against the processing of the draft 366 proceedings in a committee that violated our Home and Working Procedures Act, the ambassadors were not allowed to present their amendments, the amendments were added arbitrarily, etc., etc., on which we have also protested to the Riigikogu Board, as has already been mentioned, the Estonian Conservative People's Party has proposed to withdraw the draft 366 from this week's agenda so that the Commission can continue to process it and do so in accordance with our Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U52	Thank you. I am certainly in agreement with that as soon as we put the proposal to the vote, to say the same. And automatically we can start discussing it right now. Good fellows! We have come to the approval of the agenda; we must vote on the agenda of the 17th working week. The proposal by the Estonian Conservative People's Party to remove the third item on the agenda of 9 June, which is 366 SE, tabled by Henn Põllea, a good fellow official. Consequently, this agenda for the 17th working week should be put to the vote in this way. But now I see that Mart's Gridship has his hand up. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U53	Thank you. The Reform Party Group does not support the amendment of the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U54	Got it. Then we cannot put this on the agenda with this proposal, because this amendment will not be supported. This proposal is not supported, and our Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure say: if only one political group is opposed, the point cannot be removed from the agenda that has been tabled. Kalle Grünthal, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U55	The procedural question completely that in the meantime was here, the voice was here...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U56	I'm so sorry, Mr. Grünthal! I'm really sorry, but we can't hear you. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I ask for silence in this Chamber of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U57	Thank you, Mr President. Meanwhile, at the beginning of the sitting, the voice was perfectly normal to hear the back seat. Now, during the speech by Henn Põllea, it disappeared again. Please turn to the volume!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U58	Thank you. I saw that even here in the second stand there were problems: when Mr Põljaas said that his voice was not in that right tone. I don't know if we have that button, but if we do, we're gonna try to turn it up. But I also have a request that when we speak, please try to speak as microphone as possible. You see, old systems may not last. I will now begin the preparation of this vote. Good colleagues, can we go to the vote? Jevgeni Ossinovski, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U59	Thank you, Mr President. I have once come across the fact that I have read the old acts of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. In the meantime, the law has changed, but I have become so much smarter that, in fact, if Mr Põljaas was not the initiator of this draft, he was not entitled to make a proposal to withdraw the draft from the agenda after he announced the agenda. Do I have the correct interpretation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U60	I was based on the fact that Mr Põljaas proposed this as the chairman of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Paul Woodland, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U61	Thank you, thank you very much. I just wanted to say that there is no need to draw the wrong conclusion that Henn Põlluaas wanted to break the bill that he had not submitted. It was a question of changing the agenda: whether to keep the item in or not. That's another question. So Henn Põllea was right to make this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U62	And that is what was proposed, and that is what we immediately brought into the debate, as you requested. There was no delay, but Mr. Networkship immediately proposed a counter-proposal. Jevgeni Ossinovski, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U63	The President of the sitting shall, without doubt, also have a wider right of discretion in chairing the sitting. Just once, this has been the case, and indeed § 54 (4) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, which changed on 17 March 2019. The agenda can now be withdrawn from the agenda only at the request of the initiator, the draft author or the commission. As this provision has changed, I find it regrettable that it changed, so far as I know, Mr Põllea did not actually have such a right at the moment. But, of course, the President of the sitting solved this issue in the spirit of 'full collegial leadership', so I have nothing to complain about.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U64	Thank you. I also have no procedural comment on your procedural question. A procedural question, Andrei Korobenik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U65	Thank you very much, Mr President. The vote itself began with the call. I have such a suggestion that we can, if you will allow, resolve the remaining procedural issues after the vote, because this process is currently under way. I have a strong desire to vote now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U66	Yeah, I can't afford that. If there are procedural questions, you have to answer them. This is not something we would like to argue about afterwards, why, for example, Mr Kruusimäe and Mr Seedri's procedural questions could be asked after the vote. Maybe before the vote, they'll draw attention to something very important, or the microphone won't work or anything like that. A procedural question, Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U67	Thank you, good Chairman! I didn't understand the context very well, but I just realized that Ossinovsky was age-discriminating here. Why is the new one better than the old one? I didn't understand that. And, of course, it was also said before I was told that if there is still some procedure going on, then this procedure can be completed and then you can join the other ambassadors.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U68	Thank you. Right now I am asking for your help so that we can complete this voting procedure. I see that this is the wish of the hall, and rather now the problem is in me that I can't do it. But here's another little question. Mr Kalle Grünthal, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U69	Thank you very much, good George. Here's the question. It is known that if, for example, the police hurt a person, the citizen has the right to go to court and challenge it. If an official is hurting, there is a right to go to the administrative court and challenge it. That's right. But it is now a situation when the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is hurting members of the Riigikogu along with his community. So where do we have to dig? Or so it is that what this committee says... When we talk a lot about the deep state here, that the deep state rules us, etc., it seems to me that the deep state also exists in full in this Riigikogu. Please tell us how the members of the Riigikogu will then, say, defend themselves, who find that what has been done in the committees is unlawful.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U70	Thank you. I think that it is best to resolve these concerns at the level of the Commission, at the level of the lead committee. If this fails, as your group has done, a letter can be sent to the Riigikogu Board and we must discuss it. Or not that we need to discuss, but that we will discuss. But now it seems that there is a procedural question arising from Henn Põllea. This proposal was realized, but... Please, Henn Põllaas, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U71	Thank you. I have noticed that certain colleagues have developed this selective understanding of our home and working procedures, which changes both in space and in time. When the agenda is approved, each political group will be able to make a proposal to change the agenda, to withdraw certain drafts from it, in full compliance with our rules of procedure and domestic law. You don't have to question that. All the more so since the current coalition parties and the Social Democratic Party also used this opportunity very actively when they were all in opposition. No one tried to question it, so let's keep working the same way. Thank you to the manager. In my opinion, everything has been done quite correctly and according to the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U72	Thank you. And I will say once again that this proposal of yours was fully in line with the rules. Each political group has the right to make its own proposals on the agenda. If it had not been for the other group's proposal not to support it, I would have put it straight to the vote that this third point would go out of the agenda of this week. Mart Helme, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U73	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. What amazes me is that we have strongly more than half, 60% at least, advocates of liberal democracy, representatives of the ideology of liberal democracy in this Chamber. We know that the basic truth of liberal democracy is the protection of minorities. In this case, they are going to cross with their own basic truth, because the minority here demands protection for its proposal on the agenda of the week, but it is being brutally rolled over. We are asking for the principles of liberal democracy to be followed in this vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U74	Thanks, Mart! Surely your current speech, it seems to me, built this bridge so that we can carry out this vote. I am voting on the approval of the 17th working week agenda of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U75	Wonders will happen in this hall! With the result of 53 members of the Riigikogu, 20 and 1 abstention this week's agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U76	We will move forward in this extraordinary sense of association. The first question to be heard is the request submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Henn Põlleaas, Leo Kunnas, Martin Helme, Merry Aart and Jaak Valge on 11 May 2021 for a refusal to enter the form on 9 May. It's an 80. Defence Minister Kalle Laanet will answer the question. I ask the representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair, a member of the Riigikogu Henn Põljaasa, to introduce this question to the general public of Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U77	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Secretary of Defense! Ladies and gentlemen, Today, an inquiry has been submitted to this large hall a long time ago regarding the inclusion of the Estonian Defence Forces' form on 9 May. The form of the defence forces of any country is the primary feature by which all people, whether in civil or in service, identify that they are soldiers, they are defence forces, they serve time to protect our country during peacetime, especially during wartime. The wearing of the uniform is a matter of pride, not everyone is entrusted with it, but it is a privilege, and it must be proud of who bears it, and those who do not wear it must also feel awe whether they are citizens of our country, citizens of foreign countries or residents of non-citizens. On 9 May, the people who lived here mostly during the Soviet occupation and their descendants celebrated the victory of the Soviet Union in World War II, which meant for us the occupation of Estonia, the destruction of our independence and indescribable suffering for our people. It was celebrated at the cemetery of the Defence Forces, where some 10,000 people gathered, who broke all the rules of the Coronary, failed to observe the 2+2 rule, feasted, drank, sang at the cemetery, who celebrated, in a word, a holiday that is directly contrary to the right of our people to self-determination, our independence and statehood. And that day our Defence Forces pulled our tail between our legs, humping back: Lieutenant Colonel Priit Averkin, Commander of the Defence Staff and Communications Battalion, ordered his subordinates not to wear the Estonian uniform. It's a disgrace! This is unprecedented: we must fear and be ashamed of the Estonian Defence Forces' form! And worst of all, later it turned out that a similar command had been given in previous years. When those involved in the destruction of the Estonian state, or whose grandparents are involved, celebrate their victory, we, who have restored our independence, draw our tail between our legs. This is absolutely indescribable, absolutely unbelievable, totally unacceptable! And exactly the same indescribable and incredible reasons have been raised. This was justified by the fear that in the Republic of Estonia movement in the form of the Defence Forces may be torn out of context and placed in a context that harms Estonia, or represented in some other way. Oh, for heaven's sake! Will we be ashamed of the entire Republic of Estonia in the same way?! Are we going to disband the entire Estonian Defence Forces?! I don't know what context they're talking about here. That is why we have asked the Minister of Defence five questions that I am not reading here. I hope the Minister will read these questions along with the answers. And, of course, we look forward to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U78	Thank you, Mr Pier. I now ask the Minister of Defence of the Riigikogu's speech, Kalle Laaneti, to answer the question, which bears the number 80.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U79	Honourable Speaker of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will first join in all the congratulations that sounded in this Chamber at the beginning of this sitting. It's nice to have people doing well. Honourable heirs Henn Põllaas, Leo Kunnas, Martin Helme, Merry Aart and Jaak White! I am pleased to answer the questions raised in your inquiry. And, of course, I'm glad there's more people in this room. The first question is whether and in what way Averkin's decision was coordinated with his superiors, whether the order was also coordinated with the Ministry of Defence, or whether the Ministry of Defence was aware of the order? The Chief of the Staff and Communications Battalion was not required to coordinate this decision with the Commander of the Defence Forces. It was in his leadership. As Minister of Defence, I trust the Commander of the Defence Forces in matters that he has been given jurisdiction to resolve. The regulation of wearing a military uniform is one of them. The efficiency and effectiveness of our Defence Forces depend precisely on flexible and task-oriented leadership, and the superiors trust the subordinates within the limits of their assignments. In this case, the Ministry of Defence was not aware of a specific decision. All the more so since a specific decision was taken on the basis of an existing assessment. The Defence Forces continuously assess the situation in both the physical and information environments and adapt their activities and measures to reduce unnecessary risks and ensure continuous combat capability. In this way, a risk assessment has been carried out and a movement recommendation has been issued by 9 May 2008 onwards. Since then, there have been a wide range of Defence Forces leaders, as well as various ministers. The second question: "Do the defence forces still have any dates or geographical areas in Estonia where they recommend conscripts or active troops not to move in form? Which, where and for what reason? " A brief answer is not. The form shall be entered in accordance with established procedures and one-off arrangements. Question number three: Is the above recommendation also valid for the Allied military? Answer: Allied units in Estonia shape their standards of conduct according to their national regulations. The regulations of the Defence Forces do not apply to them. Question number four: "What does the Minister of Defence consider to be the effect of such an arrangement on the morals of conscripts, on the reputation of the Defence Forces and on the credibility of a wide range of national defence? " As Minister of Defence, I would be happy to see more militias wearing uniforms in public spaces. At the same time, it is important that the form is entered in accordance with the prescribed procedure and purpose. The uniform of a Defence Forcesman can also be worn by persons who are not members of the Defence Forces, such as the Defence League. And that's welcome. At the same time, there must also be control over the wearing of the uniform of the Defence Forces, as it is the improper wearing of the uniform that damages the reputation of the Defence Forces and the Defence Forces. The Ministry of Defence has developed amendments to the law that will enable the Defence Forces to respond more effectively and forcefully to violations of the Defence Forces uniform regime. Question number five: "What does the Minister of Defence see as the impact of such an arrangement on the Russian armed forces' assessments of our will for defence? " The desire for protection cannot be judged simply by form, but rather by content. There is no reason to believe or to take the view that the analysts of the Russian armed forces in this particular case consider our defence capabilities to be any less. The thorns of the Defence Forces are sharper today than yesterday, and they're getting sharper and sharper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U80	Minister, thank you. You have questions too. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U81	Good manager! Good minister! I've been told by several officers that it's an old thing that you don't have to go to the Bronze Soldier at the Defence Cemetery at that time. But my question is, when did it start? Was it when the Commander of the Defence Forces was our colleague, Ants Laaneots, or was it Riho Terras? There have been huge numbers of ministers: Jürgen Ligi and Jaak Aaviksoo and Sven Mikser. Do you have any idea who threw that first pebble said, boys, shut up just in case? Do you know?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U82	Thank you for your question. I am indebted to a name-call answer now, but 2008 was the first year that such an order was issued, according to my information.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U83	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U84	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! Now, if you look at the fact that the form of the Defence Forces is to some extent a problem, you can always solve it so that the fewer uniforms there are, the less people in the form. My question is from this point of view: is this why 40 defence allies have now become redundant? Are the Defence Leagues just as big a problem as the uniforms of the Defence Forces?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U85	In reply to my fourth question, I stressed: as Minister of Defence, I would be happy to see more defence forces wearing uniforms in public spaces.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U86	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U87	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The form has two functions: professional and symbol function. From the point of view of professional function, the form shows that it is state-owned, that the flag of the State is worn, that it also sees the type of army and the type of weapon, the entity, rank and other important things. For example, there are mission emblems. The meaning of the symbol is very difficult to describe in words. You had a question about the impact that this event had on you. The answer was a little inadequate. My question is whether the effects of not wearing this form have been examined and, if so, what these conclusions are.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U88	Thanks for the question, good Alar. I think that wearing the form also has a third kind of effect and that it is a discipline effect on the wearer of the form. When a person wears a uniform in a public space, he or she assumes that he or she will behave more correctly than he or she would behave in private clothes. At least I dare say that in my own case. When I was in shape, I felt like I had to have a straight back all the time, and I was acting perfectly right so I couldn't complain. You see, to assess the impact of not wearing this uniform on the Defence Forces that day is a difficult question for me. What criteria, then, should be used to assess this? We all look at it from different perspectives and the whole social debate that took place was relatively shallow, I would say. We want it or we don't, there's always a consequence of what we do. However, to assess what this precise impact will be and what this target group is, in my opinion, extremely complex. But I'm sure it had some effect.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U89	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U90	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Mr. Secretary of Defense! My question is somewhat similar to Alar Laneman's question. The form is not only a working fabric, it is also a national identifier. And in another country, you are proud to wear your country's form. A peacetime soldier is also a representative of his country in another country. Why was it still prohibited to wear the uniform in our own country, Estonia? Was this decision reasonable and has disciplinary proceedings been initiated against the leader of the unit whose order it was?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U91	Thank you for that question. I can be in my answers. I know this has been a long-standing practice since 2008, and it has so far continued. The problem is certainly that there has not been enough analysis of the current situation, the life of which has gone on, whether or not these risks are the same. I think that every decision should be considered very carefully and consider the risks it poses. The decision made at that time, in my opinion, should not have been such a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U92	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U93	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, I just realized that you're still considering these things, that you haven't clearly declared it a mistake. Or did I misunderstand something? Why don't you go back and analyze it? Is there an analysis and a reflection, or has it already been realized that this has gone completely wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U94	Thank you for your question. My last sentence to the questioner was that, in my opinion, this decision should not have been taken in this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U95	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U96	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! The uniform is a matter of honor, as you said before, because the uniform shows that it belongs. And if we wear a approved uniform by our people, how to say, the people will approve of us. Now a little bit of the second opera. We're talking about the Orchestra of the Defence Forces, which is about to be taken to the War Museum. I understand that one reason is for the uniform carriers to be reduced. It would be possible to concentrate fewer actives if the orchestra went outside the category of actives. This means that practically they no longer have the right to wear a uniform. So how do we see our orchestra in the future with what uniform?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U97	Thank you, good Riho! The uniform is a symbol, I absolutely agree with that. And from the Defence Forces, the orchestra moves under the command of the Ministry of Defence, as is the Defence Forces. Maybe the reality is figuratively...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U98	Excuse me, Mr. Secretary of Defense, your phone! Just take the sound off. Please return to the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U99	I will come back to this question. This is important, and at the ceremony of the Defence Forces, orchestras wear the uniform of the Defence Forces. On what exactly legal basis will it be? It's a question for ministerial officials, but surely the orchestra will not be in civilian clothes on festive occasions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U100	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U101	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You have justified the order in question in such a way that not wearing the form would harm the image of the Defence Forces. Could you also give a concrete example of where, in the context of 9 May, the staff and communication battalion has been miscarriage of form, or there has been a risk?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U102	Thank you. It was your interpretation that I gave this example in the context of 9 May. It's generally known that if you walk around the city or outside the army in uniform and act unworthy of wearing it, that's the problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U103	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U104	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You spoke of your opinion that the uniform was on, that it would become more correct. I say that is not always the case. Killal assaulted girls and Elron's train was rattled by allied troops and so on. The same subject: if the wearing of uniforms is banned, what psychological effect can it have on a young soldier if the commander comes and says that no uniforms are to be worn today? After all, the cemetery was also in Soviet uniforms during World War II. What may have been the psychological impact, say, on a young soldier who has come from holy free will to stand up for the Fatherland?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U105	Thank you. First, you have to ask them if there was any psychological impact. I don't have any data on the psychological effects and, if so, what it was like.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U106	Dear colleagues, in the case of inquiries, everyone has a question. Kalle Grünthal, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U107	Thank you. I stayed to see you, Mr President, you lifted your finger. I thought I'd done something horrible wrong now. Can you do that, at least while you're asking, you won't let me know that there is a question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U108	Yeah, I'm sure I can. I caught Mr. Ernitsa's eye at the time, but unfortunately he didn't look at me. I wanted to let him know that there was a question. But in cooperation with you and Kalle Laanet, we have now been able to answer this question. So, good Peter, there's a question of questioning, not two. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U109	Thank you. It is as shameful as possible for Estonian soldiers to refuse to wear the uniform during the holidays in Russia that occupied Estonia. I am pleased that you have said that you do not support such a decision. The Commander of the Defence Forces, Martin Herem, also told us in the group that this would be the last time. So, the man's word! I hope so. But about the same time that the Estonian Defence Forces began to ban the wearing of the Estonian uniform, they began to bring a mourning gesture to the red-coupon monuments on the same anniversary and along with the tape "Estonian People." I think it's just as embarrassing. I don't know that in any other country, the occupiers get wreathed. How do you feel about this, and should we stop it anyway? It's time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U110	Now you have to help me, good questioner. What kind of wreaths and who was delivered to? Can I have the microphone for a second?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U111	Unfortunately, you can't, there's a question and an answer. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U112	If I may, I will specify the content of your question and then I will give you an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U113	Thank you. I am in favour of this, too, that in addition to the format of the inquiry, a member of the Riigikogu can also communicate with a member of the government in other ways. But as we have already become a chorus, there is a procedural question between questions. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U114	Thank you, Mr President. I actually have a request that you draw good Kalle's attention to one thing. I dare say so, today we jerked off because he said he just came from the sauna, and I said he'd get a new sauna right here. But let him speak to the microphone instead of turning his side forward. You got to stand up here. You know what I mean?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U115	Thank you. I really have a request for everyone, especially myself, but also for you and the ministers, that we really, please, talk to the microphones. It's true that when we turn our heads, the sound quality gets worse. Of course, I thank you all for the good dictation you have. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U116	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You're such a determined man. You are when we talk about uniforms, and also when we talk about cutting defence costs or concentrating orchestras. You've always said you trust the Commander of the Defence Forces. Your resolve honors you. You started your presentation by talking about trust, about the importance of trust in military subordinates, and you also gave the definition that the defence forces have the effect that the boss trusts his subordinate. Okay! But now when the Commander of the Defence Forces says that we will put down our weapons when our country is attacked by an enemy, whether you will do anything, or whether you will spread your hands as well, and you will sound stubbornly: "I trust my Commander of the Defence Forces."?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U117	Thank you for your question. Good Kalle, can you hear me now? I don't think you can hear me, but why? I tried to stand up straight here, but as soon as you push your back straight, these mikes are far away. It's kind of a problem. Look, trust is an extremely important thing. And with confidence, it's not just like that, it always has to be earned. And you may be in the militia hierarchy with bigger bangs, you can give orders, but if you don't trust the person you're giving the orders to, then there could be something that could go down very clearly. I have no reason not to trust Lieutenant General Martin Herem, Commander of the Defence Forces today.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U118	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U119	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I hope that this ban on wearing a uniform will be the first and last time. Because I wouldn't have imagined if we took over Valga's unit in the early 1990s, we would have been forbidden to leave our uniforms on and tell them to put on their sweatpants and attack the Russian unit.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U120	Thank you. Good Uno, unfortunately it wasn't the first time, but I hope it will be the last.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U121	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U122	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Secretary of Defense! To your knowledge, have the commanders of the communication battalion described the dangers and risks associated with exhibiting the Estonian flag and form in the capital of the Republic of Estonia in Tallinn in such a way that, figuratively speaking, the combatants of the communication battalion are humping off on 9 May?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U123	Thank you. I haven't had the honor of meeting the head of the communications battalion yet.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U124	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U125	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Undoubtedly, this event, which was, is regrettable and shameful and gives a very wrong signal to the conscripts. This is because those people who go around in such events without form are employees of other institutions. But has the influence of this command been analysed at all, and what steps have you taken today, or have you taken with the Commander of the Defence Forces, so that this embarrassing situation will never occur again in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U126	Thank you for your question. As far as I know, the Commander of the Defence Forces has dealt with this issue and he has also expressed his position publicly. My position coincides with his view that this should not have been the case, that such a decision should not have been made.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U127	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U128	Thank you very much, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. Well, you're gonna give us very few answers today. I have a request to analyse a bit more widely, or try to inform us of your opinion of how such incidents, in your opinion, affect the Russian leadership's assessment of Estonia's defence will and how it may affect their appetite to undertake an advance or start some kind of operation against Estonia, if we show them by our actions that we have a serious problem with defence wills at even higher military level. How will it actually harm our defence if we send the signal we sent to Moscow?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U129	Thank you. Longer? [[Laughing.]] I'm starting with the fact that tonight I finished reading a book like Spy and Traitor, the contents of which have been spying on Oleg Gordievski's story for one of the most famous British in the Cold War. If we believe that this event affected the Russian President or the Russian defence forces in any way, we still think very well of ourselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U130	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U131	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Well, I can't agree with your assessment of what you gave when you answered the previous question. And my question is this: if we have so much autonomy in the Defence Forces that the Commander of the Defence Forces decides whether or not he will shut down the orchestra, if the Commander of the Defence Forces decides to worry about the armament, whether or not to take what to take and how much to take, and if the commanders of the units decide whether the soldiers will go in uniform or sneak along the wall edge, are we not in a real crisis situation where some unit commander is watching that resistance is pointless? Boys, put your guns in the corner! Hide your uniforms and sneak into your homes! Well, what are we doing here? It doesn't make any sense!? What are we provoking, which we offer a blood sacrifice where there is no real meaning or benefit?!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U132	Thank you, Mr Helme, for your question and for your comment. The Commander of the Defence Forces, Martin Herem, has said publicly that no matter how much money he has, how many weapons he has, 10 people and 10 weapons he will fight for Estonia to the end. And I believe in him.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U133	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Now I am opening negotiations, and I think that Mart Helme is the representative of the inquisitors in this case. Is that right? Isn't it? I beg you for your speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U134	President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We have a very brief minister answering a question. I get it, it's a sign that he's a good politician who doesn't want to talk himself in. We appreciate this political skill, but we do not appreciate it from the point of view of the abundance of information. Inquiries have still been made to obtain information, to clarify the backgrounds, circumstances, causes, persons, estimates of the reasons why certain decisions have been made just as they have been made, and whether the public has understood the motives behind decisions unambiguously and adequately, or whether, as is said in the language of the people, the public has lost sight of them. I have to admit, we didn't get very much clarity on this plan. We have learned what we have known all along and what we have heard from the Prime Minister, who, by the way, will come to this Chamber on the same issue. We have also learned this from representatives of the Police and Border Guard Board. It was intended to prevent provocation, and it is already an old decision from 2008 onwards. The unit commanders have great decision-making power, they don't have to coordinate everything, etc. All of this suggests that the Estonian Defence Forces are actually ashamed that they are the Estonian Defence Forces. That the leaders of the Estonian Defence Forces shake hands when it is necessary to show that we have a country ready to stand up for itself, which is proud that it exists that it has soldiers, that it has well-trained soldiers, that it has weapons, that it has motivation. These answers gave us exactly the opposite impression. We don't have any motivation, we're good when we're out there on drills, and we're gonna be able to scramble with impunity. But where there's a real conflict risk, we're going to get into the bushes. Because we don't want to provoke. Provoking who? Provoking what? At the same time, the same people are telling us about how everyone is Estonian patriots, including those who have recently arrived here from somewhere in Africa from savannahs or Arabian deserts. As soon as they set foot in Estonia, they are Estonian patriots, loyal if not as citizens, then as permanent residents. That's what you liberals tell us all the time. Everyone who wants to come to Estonia is welcome here, and as soon as they come here, they are Estonian patriots. And then it turns out that those who have perhaps lived here for the third generation, born here, but perhaps even for the fourth generation, are suddenly such a dangerous contingent that the Estonian army cannot go before them in its uniforms. And our commanders are very smart people when they tell the soldiers to pull back, get in the bush, put on your dresses, put on your shoes, make it look like you're on the road. Embarrassing! Very embarrassing! And if we take the rest, then, Mr. Secretary of Defense, I have to say, under your feet, the earth is glowing. Let's get in here with the same scandals about this orchestra, the same scandals! You commend Martin Herem very, very sad, but I cannot agree with you. Martin Herem is a very lousy military leader, very lousy! He doesn't understand at all that he's responsible for the lives of thousands of young men. Each commander is responsible for the lives of the military under his command. During his last reign, he resisted the need to buy and fill these power gaps with additional funding to ensure that we do not sacrifice our few soldiers under the fire of an overwhelming enemy. Anti-aircraft capabilities, coastal defence capabilities, armoured capabilities, drone capabilities, marine capabilities, we still have many of these gaps. We wanted to add the two most important, coastal defence capabilities and anti-aircraft capabilities to the extent that our soldiers are not ducks that can be plucked from the air by drone attacks, helicopter attacks, aircraft strikes. Because these are the lives of our people. And that's what they told us a long, stupid story, sorry I said so brutally! The development plans and long-term plans. Our opponent does not ask whether we have the development plan to increase anti-aircraft capabilities by 2035 or by 2055. When the conflict breaks out, he will use all the means at his disposal to paralyze our defenses as quickly as possible. And also: we have always been embroiled in Article 5 of the NATO Treaty and behind the Allied soldiers. But I ask you a very simple question: why should the Kansas boys come here to fight for us if we have not done the most basic things ourselves? No, the Kansas boys don't come here, they can't come here because they can't get across the Baltic Sea because no American general is gonna let any planes fly soldiers over the sea where these planes are going to be shot down with dozens of young American boys, but maybe hundreds of them. No American general will do that. At the same time, we've had several incidents with allied soldiers. Now, it turns out that for a long time, drunken slammings, bullies, fighting have been silenced. For God's sake, we don't say anything about allies, we're about to shake our hands! You, Minister, are starting to shake your hands, Martin Herem is starting to shake your hands! We can't say anything about the Allies, then they'll leave us, and then we'll be alone, but never again alone! Such misconceptions about Estonia's defence ability, our own behaviour, our own pride, our own willingness to go into a hopeless battle must be eliminated. And I think, Mr Minister, that we will eliminate them if we take two steps: you will resign and the Commander of the Defence Forces will resign and replace people who have content, not political insight or shaking hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U135	I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Tarmo Kruusimäe!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U136	Good Chairman! Good people who are watching us! I guess we're asking you to get some information. It didn't come overnight, that knowledge. But you see, it was overnight that we knew that we had such an arrangement since 2008. But why did it come to the agenda now? Does this mean that the previous handlers considered it irrelevant, or was the command formulated differently? Or is it past time now? But there's no answer. No answer! They say 2008 is 2008. And that's how people start putting together little signs. It is as if it were liberals who would assume that there should be a great deal of distinction, pluralism and all of this well-well-informed, the difference enriches, but in the case of the Defence Forces, or even in the case of uniforms, it should narrow down. It wasn't long ago when it was thought that we didn't have so many marines and that the air force had so many, that we'd put on a uniform that was common to everyone. That uniform saw was before that. Now, on May 9, when one country, the country that occupied us, marks the end of its patriotic war here. In my day, I just took it as an unintelligible, unacceptable one. It's like a owl with its ancestors drawn to it, and once a year it's like this. I've heard it by my side that we didn't kill you enough. And in a situation where we know or imagine that we have the principle of equal treatment. Can you imagine that little children would come into Sinimäed Hills with German uniforms or some other authentic uniform? No, we can't imagine that. But can you imagine that the Minister of the Republic of Estonia will come to pay tribute to the men who fought on the Estonian side during World War II? No, we can't imagine that either. But can you imagine that in Finland, conscripts gather support for veterans of the winter war during Christmas time? No, we can't imagine that either. But we can well imagine that the border guards and the police were first merged into one. They had this uniform, and now it's gone to that museum. The military orchestra itself goes to the museum and their uniform goes to the museum. But members of the Defence Forces Orchestra are actually uniforms. Then they'll be retiring. They don't have it. Now it turns out that this great joint museum orekester, which apparently comes from the border guard, protection and all together, someone said that eventually the kapo orchestra will meet in the form that the costume store manager distributes to them at the time. After all, the form itself decreases all the time. That's my question. We understand, yes, that some just get on the nerves, that too much is like militaryity. I've also heard that forms of patriotic and Boy Scout organizations are disturbing people. But today there should still be an understanding that the difference is enriching. If anyone wants to, they could walk differently. But what did those 40 defence allies stand in the way? These are men who have freely bought their own uniforms. Now it's gotten a little complicated. That is why I am a supporter of the Defence League's Toompea Chess, so that I can say what the Defence League cannot say, because they are also subject to hierarchy. Guys, don't play guard! And if there is still such a situation that the responsibility of the minister in his area of responsibility must be borne, then there could also be a clear message. We read body language. If still answers... No, I don't want three more minutes, because the form of inquiry doesn't allow it. Good Secretary of Defense, as long as you're the Secretary of Defense, do what you want with those military people, all right, lay off whatever you want, but leave us all in peace! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U137	Mr. Kruusimäe, this allows three minutes of negotiations. [[Tarmo Kruusimäe says something about the hall.]] This is an inquiry, but it is still possible to negotiate for 5 + 3 minutes. But let's move on. Peeter Ernits, please speak to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U138	Good manager! Good minister! I once argued with Nikita Mikhalkov about what is important to the Russian soul and what connects her. And he said straight out that the last war, the patriotic war, all those endless movies, and so on. I am not going to tell you what he has offered, he has also visited Estonia a lot, which could unite the Estonian soul. This isn't the place. I've been to the bronze soldier a lot, looking around as a journalist when he was transferred there. I've seen the guys in uniform, the medals in the chest, the women who have become women, the pilots in their heads, the stockings on their feet, marching there, wearing their uniforms festively and proudly. And now, this year, when it turns out that the Estonian boys have been told not to wear the uniform, it is deeply embarrassing. But that's it. And now it turns out that it's actually an old thing. In the meantime, I spoke to an Estonian officer and, after my question, I asked him when it actually started. You said 2008 but my officers' friends said it started when the bronze soldier was still on Tõnismäe. However, it was in 2007. So it started when then Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, with the great scandal, moved the statue away, and all these consequences are felt from it to this day at times. Andrus Ansip was Prime Minister of the Reform Party. And now, if you look at who the Commander of the Defence Forces was, that was our good friend, Ants Laaneots. I don't know where Ants is right now. Who was the Secretary of Defense back then? Our good colleague Jürgen Ligi. Where are you, Jurgen? And then who came? It's a long list. The Commander of the Defence Forces before Martin Herem has also been Riho Terras, our esteemed colleague from the European Parliament. But who have been ministers? We begin: Jürgen Ligi, Reform Party; Jaak Aaviksoo, Fatherland Union; Mart Laar, Fatherland Union; Urmas Reinsalu, Fatherland Union; Sven Mikser, Social Democrat; Hannes Hanso, Social Democrat; Margus Tsahkna, Estonia 200; Jüri Luik, Isamaa. So, in fact, it is not only the Centre Party and the Conservative People's Party that have been entrusted with the portfolio of the Minister of Defence; everyone else has dealt with it in solidarity. Consequently, the decision was taken already when Jürgen Ligi was the Minister of Defence and Ants Laaneots was the Commander of the Defence Forces, insofar as both of them are not here at the moment, and their descendants have all done so calmly. It's a real crime just now, but it's better late than never. But let's keep going. When you look a little at the end of last year, do you remember how you had to make eager suggestions about what to do? And what did our good colleague Ants Laaneots and some colleagues do? After all, he proposed to join the Russian Federation. Remember Urmas Kruuse was there and Jüri Jaanson was there? But Ants Laaneots is a Soviet colonel. At the time, he was the Commander of the Defence Forces when such an order was given. But who else, remember, made us interesting suggestions at the end of the year? Marko Mihkelson, currently chairman of our Committee on Foreign Affairs. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Estonia could enter the Russian sphere of influence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U139	Good waitress, would you like some extra time? How much? We have up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U140	Up to three minutes, but I'll make it through two.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U141	Okay, but let's do a little reserve. Three, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U142	Thank you. Or Mr Randper's proposal, remember, to leave NATO and launch a long way to re-establish the Soviet Union. So when you look at these things in a wide picture and context, the mosaics actually come together. There is nothing strange when the influential politicians of the Reform Party in their time laid the foundations of the fact that I don't know, on the one hand, Ansip took the bronze soldier away with great noise, but his good colleagues, Jürgen Ligi and Ants Laaneots, have returned not to piss off those Russians who, by the way, love and respect the uniform. If Estonian soldiers had been in their uniforms there, they would rather give rise to reverence than fear and anger. So I look at it as a whole and, in the long run, we actually have a lot of colleagues thinking the same thing, it seems to me. And the fact that the boys are told not to wear the Estonian uniform is not strange, it is entirely natural. The person who has proposed to re-enter the Russian Federation will take the decision to prevent Estonian boys from going there in Estonian uniform. No wonder. Let's keep living! But thank you, Kalle, that you've at least decided to say, as a brave man, that now we're done. And the same way we talked to the Minister of the Interior today, we asked about layoffs, again 11.7 million, that he's going to lay off several police officers or rescue officers. He didn't say any numbers. But as an honest man, you've said 270 goes. Here we go! So respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U143	Thank you. I now ask Kalle Grünthal to speak to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U144	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary of Defense! Listening to your questioning today, I remembered a word like "mundredau." A uniform is a concept that I don't think is written into a code, but it's an unwritten rule. It's an unwritten rule for all military personnel that a uniform should be kept, dignified, behaved, and stood in uniform for the protection of the Fatherland if necessary. I remember your... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U145	Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U146	Thank you. I remember my period of coercion in the Soviet army. If you were still too loosely strapped there, it was even possible, let alone other things. The form is what is a symbol, and symbols must be kept. Today's inquiry was due to the fact that the Defence Forces have confirmed that Lieutenant Colonel Priit Averkin, Commander of the Staff and Communications Battalion, ordered his staff, if possible, to refrain from moving in the form of the Defence Forces around the Filter campus on 9 May. This was justified by the fear that the movement in the Republic of Estonia in the form of the Defence Forces could be torn out of context, placed in a context that harms Estonia or represented it in some other way. Tell me, Mr. Laane, does this arrangement protect the honour of the Estonian uniform? I say I don't, you may have a different opinion. Next, if we invite young soldiers to join the army, we will advertise before that the importance of their participation in defending the Estonian state, how important it is to be a soldier of the Estonian state. And then at some point, one of the commanders marches in front of the line and says we're not wearing the uniform today. You could not answer my question as to how this would affect the morals of a conscript. Remember? I say it's very bad for morals. It sends a signal that if you need to hide, take off your uniform quickly. We're not talking about uniform now. Those who are more familiar with history know that during the months of the end of World War II, six months or so, the march of troops in the German army did not become everyday, but was a very common phenomenon. And then the German army applied the foreign army, and when someone was caught without uniform, when it was found that they had no reason to do so, they were declared deserters. What did they do to them? They were shot, hanged on a lamppost, labeled "I betrayed my country." In principle, such an order actually instructs young soldiers that if there is a problem, throw down your uniform, walk away. I'm sure you'll tell me why I'm making such a big problem out of such a small thing, but it's not really like that. I quote § 446 of the Penal Code, which says that five years of imprisonment is the penalty for abuse of power in the military. Tell me, Minister, what legislation allows the uniform to be removed in some cases! Or rather the commander's permission to demand it. I don't know such an order to take down a uniform. Consequently, those military personnel who have issued such an order have broken the law. And it also amazes me now that neither you nor the Commander of the Defence Forces, Herem, has initiated any disciplinary procedure or investigation into why such an order was given. After all, this is an abuse of power. I will come back to it from the place where I left off, but I cannot fail to state that after the decision to disband the Orchestra of the Defence Forces, these musicians gathered here in front of the Riigikogu in order to play against this decision. When I used to watch parades and their performances, I had pride in my heart, I felt so good to see what our military orchestra was like. But I'm sorry, with all due respect to these musicians and their skills, that the power needed for the Estonian state was no longer in this appearance. The orchestra had become a lot of people who simply played the instrument well. It shows how important the uniform is, Mr. Secretary of Defense. And since you have not given any signal that you have been planning or are in the process of investigating some kind of abuse of power procedure, you should, in fact, be aware of you as a straight-line military officer, taking a bold and honorable decision to resign from this office. I don't think it's much, it just shows the honor and dignity of an officer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U147	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Leo Kunnas!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U148	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Kalle! In fact, you in the group already gave us a concrete answer that this was a mistake and that it would be corrected. And you repeated it here, and it's actually clear. I'm not going to go into this anymore because there's been a lot of talk about it. But I would rather take advantage of my opportunity to review the state of our defence costs and capabilities and discuss how we might get out of the situation where we are. The situation we're in is not good. The 12th was quite sad here. There was a vote on strategy 2035 and we voted down the level of defence costs of 2.6%, under the power of our esteemed Chamber, which is essential in order to make the necessary capabilities improvements in the current security situation. We are in a position where, compared to the previous RES, it is proposed that defence costs should fall to 2.02% of GDP by 2024 and remain at the same level until the end of the decade. I say now that we cannot and must not make such a decision. Of course, I have spoken to you, and also to the Minister for Finance, why we must not do this, and I have also advised the Minister for Finance that if we are to be able to raise defence costs to 2.6% and to do this in this decade, we need to borrow about 5% of GDP. We have two decisions at stake: either we do this or we are in a situation where our Defence Forces may not be able to carry out their duties in the event of a war, if we speak quite frankly. These are our choices. Of course, in order to do so, the European Union's stability criterion must continue to be violated. However, since our security situation is what it is, we should ask permission to do so from the European Central Bank or from other responsible institutions to the European Commission. I don't know exactly because I'm not the finance man who needs to get all these permits from, but we should ask them, because the situation is too dangerous to go on like this. Let me give you a little example. The US state debt currently stands at $28.367 trillion. One trillion is 1,000 billion. That's 127% of the United States' GDP this year, which is $22 trillion. They've got a little over $700 billion worth of defense this year. As we can see, a large part of the US defence costs comes from a loan and the United States borrows money not only to protect itself but also to protect Europe. If the United States were to proceed with the same principle of balancing the budget, then the cost would probably be to liquidate the United States' European command. That's what they'd do. How can we expect our most powerful ally to be indebted to fight for us, but we here, as a front country, to say that everything else is more important to us? How can we do that? We should not or could not do so, and that is why I call on the Government that the cuts concerning military defence and internal defence should be lifted. There is no point in discussing them. On the contrary, we need to increase funding decisively in both areas so that our country can continue in this security situation at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U149	Thank you. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu Henn Põllea!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U150	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, There is nothing more shameful than to fear that in the Republic of Estonia the movement in the form of the Defence Forces in public could be torn out of context and placed in a context that harms Estonia, or that it could be misunderstood in some other way. On the contrary, movement in the form of the Estonian Defence Forces in a public place, around the military units and, of course, in these units is a matter of pride. It gives rise to awe, and it is also part of today's propaganda and hybrid war, when it is seen that Estonian men, Estonian sons, proudly wear their uniforms, fear no one, and are willing to face any enemy. But take the finger, you must not confront the enemy, you must not wear the uniform at all in front of the enemy on any day or situation where someone thinks wearing the Estonian uniform may be provocative. This is completely absurd. But this thing is not really limited to wearing the Estonian uniform. A good colleague, Peeter Ernits, pointed out what year the ban on wearing the form actually came and who was behind it. And it wasn't just about wearing a uniform in a public space. In fact, it is exactly that time since 2007, that the Estonian Defence Forces will take us to the fallen soldiers who occupied us and other people who participated in the conquest of Estonia, the destruction of the Estonian people, the memorials and honour them. As I said before in my introduction to the debate, I do not know any country in the world except Estonia, which in this way respects the armies that occupied its country. Unfortunately, it turns out that our Secretary of Defense is not aware of this. I will go back to history and remember on the Internet the materials of that time are beautifully available, which we can read and see about in May 2007. The way Estonian ministers and defence forces took the wreath to the bronze plot. I'm gonna read a few places here. The first to place the wreath with the bronze soldier was the Defence Forces. The Prime Minister Ansip, Urve Palo, Minister of Population, and Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Defence were then honoured. In a public place, the wearing of the Estonian uniform was prohibited, but the bronze voucher was honoured in the Estonian uniform! And then, only then, pay attention! The commemorative events continued with the wreathing of those who participated in the Estonian defence battles on Maarjamäe. The priority was set, who is important, who must be remembered, who must be respected, who must probably be despised, because neither the Estonian Defence Forces nor the ministers participate in defence battles. I myself have been to Sinimäed Hills quite regularly, where Estonian defence battles are celebrated. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U151	Yeah, of course. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U152	Up on the hill is our men's memorial, the men who stood on Estonia's back, whose weapon was directed towards the invading Redhords, or east, and towards Russia. And down there is the red-armed monument, which we have over 200 across Estonia, with Stalin's quote that the people who have fallen for the Soviet homeland. And the Estonian Defence Forces will also take it there, just as they will take it to the bronze plot, the wreath every year, and from this wreath we read that this wreath is from the Estonian people. Oh, for heaven's sake! Do we really praise being occupied, destroyed, deported? And we must be grateful for that, we will even deliver the wreath to them for the sake of the entire nation. However, we have not actually heard from the Minister today why all of this is being done. Why? That question is unanswered. How have such decisions been taken in the first place? We must not wear the Estonian uniform, but the occupyants must be respected! And every year, this wreath takes it to these monuments, to the statues of the Red Army, our Defence Forces chaplains, who are forced to do so, but who do so in the uniform of the Estonian Defence Forces, because they are allowed to go there in the uniform of the Defence Forces, but there is no place to show themselves. And it is very embarrassing, as I said, that it is done in the uniform of the Defence Forces and also in the chaplains I have spoken to several people, that they feel very deeply embarrassed that they have to do it. I've been talking to several defense ministers about ending the wreathing. Unfortunately, I have simply not known about the ban on wearing the uniform before, because this decision has been very jealously concealed since 2007. I'm glad it finally came out, should've come out a long time ago. Last time I spoke to Secretary of Defense Jüri Luige, it's no use. I hope, Mr Secretary of Defense, that today's discussions and talks will benefit and end both the shame and concealment of the form of the Estonian Defence Forces and the respect and wreathing of the soldiers of the occupying power. I hope you're done with this. Thank you and the strength for that!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U153	Thank you. The respondent has the right to participate in the negotiations, and the Minister has expressed his wish. Please! But no, I'm sorry! The Minister must speak last. I didn't see Urmas Reinsalu. I'm sorry! Urmas Reinsalu, please! Eight minutes, three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U154	Honourable representative of the people! First of all, thank you to the Minister for Defence for clarifying this embarrassing story. I don't think there can be two ways of thinking, there must be clarity in this matter. And retreating in the Republic of Estonia on such a sensitive subject is not conceivable. As far as our defence, the security of our people, is concerned, our expectation in the current emergency must be that we will contribute more, not less, to the protection of our country. No more, no less! And it is worrying that when we talk about our defence as a whole and that our Defence Forces must counter enemy attacks, the coalition has written clear lines in the coalition agreement that national defence funding is based on existing plans, but unfortunately I have at my disposal information that promises to say that it will not be respected. The Ministry of Defence has issued a statement.. and for providing this information, I congratulate you, it is a good thing that this was done and that it was not chosen as of 4 June, which states: "Let us move a little slower towards achieving the defence capabilities objectives planned in the National Defence Development Plan. These are the development of both brigades, marine defence and defence on the basis of the Defence League. The Ministry of Defence's area of government saves an estimated EUR 71 million over four years, moving somewhat slower in the development of defence capabilities. " You noticed that while the first sentence contained "a little slower," the next one contained the words "some slower." In the area of governance, 270 workers are to be made redundant and decommissioned, and the composition is to be reduced. What does that really mean? Is Putin's potential aggressive plans based on the fiscal strategy of the Estonian state and based on the fact that the Republic of Estonia is collapsing its defence costs compared to what was planned? Does this mean, then, that we can expect a possible aggressive act by the Russian Federation to be less likely to do so? What do these cuts mean from the point of view of the country's budgetary strategy, where defence costs decrease to 2.02% in 2024-2025? On 23 March, the Commander of the Defence Forces, Martin Herem, foretold in the Riigikogu what this really means. I quote: "If, according to current forecasts, the cost of protection remains at 2%, as it is currently adopted and confirmed in the country's budgetary strategy, we are less dangerous to the opponent than we are today, and we must reduce the Defence Forces. The cost of protection of 2,23% of GDP in the context of the previous country's budgetary strategy means that we would still be painful and dangerous for the opponent, but only within our own territory." In other words, it is an assessment of the situation by the Commander of the Defence Forces as the highest military adviser to the government. We are currently in an emergency situation and this diagnosis, the seriousness of the threat has also been referred to on 23 March by the Minister of Defence, noting how serious the security situation in our region is at present due to Russia's unpredictability. We are in a situation where we are slowing down the development of our defence capabilities compared to what is foreseen in the plans. And what are we doing this for? What is this patho, which is the palace? We spoke here in the language of symbols that Georgi's tapes must not be invaded, but the uniform of the Republic of Estonia must be preserved and publicised. The uniform of the Republic of Estonia must not be withdrawn, just as the symbol is the Orchestra of the Defence Forces. These are the symbols of our willingness to defend, but in this perspective, we really need to look at our defenses. Our defenses! And if, in the current situation, we are going to defuse our defence capabilities, it is not in the interests of the security of the Estonian state. We're talking about the commanders not ordering the militia not to wear uniforms. For the form of the Defence Forces, I quote, which was meant to be used maliciously. We have received clarity on this issue, or at least an understanding of what is actually expected to happen, and the statement by the Prime Minister that this practice will not be pursued in the future. But that does not undo the most serious question: that our defence capabilities will be allowed to go on if these cuts go on in the summer of this year by making the budget for next year in the planned amount. It must not be allowed, it must be drawn to a clear red cross! Here's a line after a line, a page after a page of these questions that will be cracked in our defence field. And the question is, for what? For what? This is not about austerity; we understand perfectly that it is about political priorities. The money that will be taken from the Defence Forces next year, we know where that money is going. This money is going to build a new building for the Ministry of the Environment. So that's a preference! But the question is, this house isn't a witch house on chicken legs to protect us from Putin Russia. We will build these ministries houses in years' time, but we are now dealing with what our people expect: that we protect the people from unpredictable, lethally dangerous and hostile intentions against the state. And on this point, I very much hope, Mr Secretary of Defense, that you will come to the chair and give us a firm assurance that these things were errors, that it was a mistake, that you would tear down these clippings and that we would make sure that our slices of slices would not crush our national defence. I hope this happens in this chair, and we can move forward together, calmly and smiling. This is the most important and decisive moment, because the Minister of Defence has a Parliamentary Chair for this. I'm asking for Secretary of Defense Kalle Laanet in this chair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U155	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U156	If it's okay, I'll ask for three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U157	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U158	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, You know, I feel pretty proud. If the opponents take so long and so much to criticize my actions, then I've always done something so that it gets to the soul. I just got back from the southeast border of Estonia for lunch today. A little while ago, there was a gentleman here who criticized how I could not understand anything, but he had the opportunity to give a much greater impetus to the construction of the Estonian border. I'm afraid there hasn't been a big boost. Just big words. We are now in a situation where the ministers of the two ministries are prepared to make serious efforts to provide Estonia with greater security, because internal and external security is one whole. You can't look at them on your own. I would also like to remind you that in 2008 the Minister of Defence was Jaak Aaviksoo, and it is not worth telling here that this decision was made in 2007 and that it was Jürgen Ligi. It wasn't like that. Spinne, political spins are, of course, very good to do from here. I'm coming to next year's budget. The total defence budget for 2022 will increase by EUR 59,4 million, i.e. 9,2%, compared to this year's. Of this, €277 million will be invested in defence capabilities. This is the largest volume of investment ever made. What are we gonna do? We stick to the goal of keeping the average wage of the active troops 30% above the average wage in Estonia, increasing the number of conscripts from 3500 to 4000. As a special priority area, it was decided to proceed with intelligence and advance warning and to increase their capacity by means of additional funds, which I also pointed out in the Special Committee on State Budget Control. The military orchestra is not going anywhere. It's going to the Ministry of Defense and the War Museum. We will continue to develop marine defence by developing anti-ship missile capabilities and by obtaining sea mines, a total of EUR 56 million. As an important capacity development Estonia continues to procure anti-ship missiles independently, as Latvia decided to abandon joint procurement due to the lack of money. Investments in the development of armaments and the replenishment of ammunition supplies amount to between €382 million and €2 million over the 2021-2025 period. For the renewal of the main firepower, the Defence Forces will acquire 120 mm mortars. We're gonna keep picking up mobile artillery K9 Thunder, and both brigades are gonna get 12 mobile artillery. The Defence Forces will receive a new generation of modulating bullet and rubble vests. The replacement of automatics will continue. The Estonian defence industry builds CV90 support Finns for infantry combat vehicles. Training opportunities for the Defence Forces' armored units will be significantly improved, armoured tanks will be built on the central polygon. Go, air security. We are renovating the Ämari runway, which will ensure that allies' planes will continue to come here to provide air security. We will also make additional investments to continue the air security mission at Tallinn Airport during the renovation. So, exercises and regional cooperation. Regional cooperation will have a new dimension, and more and more exercises will take place across borders. The grand training of the Defence Forces in Sii will be conducted for the first time in Estonia and Latvia next year. In 2023, the North Division's headquarters will achieve operational capability. Jne, et cetera. In my opinion, as representatives of the people, we should think about this, and I also dare to call myself a representative of the people, whether the words that are said down here damage or strengthen Estonia's defence capabilities, both inside the country and in front of foreign enemies. Think about it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U159	Thank you very much. The negotiations are closed and the first question has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U160	Today's second item on the agenda is the request made on 10 May by Urmas Reinsalu and Helir-Valdor Seeder, members of the Riigikogu, for an order not to enter the Defence Forces form. The inquiry has been submitted to Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. On behalf of the heirs, Urmas Reinsalu, please! Five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U161	Madam Prime Minister, it is always a pleasure to see you in the Chamber of the Riigikogu! After all, the fundamental question of the inquiry is essentially the same as in the previous inquiry to Defence Minister Kalle Laanet, which concerns the claims made to the public regarding the order given on 9 May to wear civilian clothes instead of the Defence Forces form. We ask the Prime Minister to explain these facts and also to give his own assessment. However, I believe that the central issue, which I would like to provide the Prime Minister with a platform to clarify, concerns the alarming information that is at the disposal of the Riigikogu and concerns cuts in national defence costs. What does this mean, however, in a situation where all threat assessments are in red, where threat assessments say that we have an unpredictable hostile neighbouring country in the form of Russia, but instead we are going to reduce defence costs compared to the current plans? This is not a malicious press or opposition talk, but I have at my disposal the Ministry of Defence's document of 4 June, which says, I would point out that we are moving a little bit more slowly, very skilfully euphemistically, that a little bit more slowly, towards achieving the objectives of defence capabilities planned in the National Defence Development Plan: the development of both brigades, the protection of the seas, the defence of the land on the basis of the Defence Union. Madam Prime Minister, then, what does the word 'little' mean for the development of military capabilities in rural languages? Very affectionate words have come about on such a serious subject as defence, financing, decisions, military capacity. And just like that, it's kind of messed up and blurred up: is it clipped or not? In the previous speech, too, Mr. Secretary of Defense said that nothing will be cut, on the contrary, growing. It will, but I will read the memo made by the DOD officials and quote it: four years from now, the Ministry of Defence's administration will save an estimated EUR 71 million, moving on and now pay attention again! A little slower. By what? What has been taken as a basis for this'some', I simply do not understand when it comes to the development of defence capabilities. In addition, as the allegations have been made, a decision has been made to reduce the number of employees in the Ministry of Defence's administration by around 270 people. That's what I don't understand! Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration, says: the number of workers on the front line is not cut; the government has made this decision. The Secretary of Defense says one thing, the Secretary of the Interior says it is, and maybe it is. I would also ask for clarity on this issue, because it is the Defence Forces of our country. Governments come, governments go, but the need to protect the Estonian state and to contribute to Estonia's national defence will not disappear. Putin does not base its potential ambitions on the figures in the country's budget strategy. We can't print out the country's budget strategy and tell him that sorry, your action should come in four years. We've postponed the development of our defence capabilities. Come in four years. What are you kidding? It's unthinkable! That's why we need to understand that this is the stupidest step right now. It's the wrong signal to the allies, it's the wrong signal to friends, and it's also the very wrong signal to the opponents. We are going to reduce defence costs and they say it is necessary to cut down. But I have a very specific proposal. Madam Prime Minister, you know, I always come to the rescue when it comes to finding a constructive solution, and this aid is very simple. The new house of the Ministry of the Environment is not a colossus that Putin's army would be afraid of. That's not it! We'll build it in a few years. Yeah, well, good officials deserve this house, but right now we need to develop national defence. Next year's national defence cost cut compares to this new Ministry of the Environment house. I understand ambition. The government has its own political goals, the aim is to build the largest log building in Northern Europe in the form of this House of the Ministry of the Environment, but my proposal is very simple: we will postpone the construction of this building. Better times will come, and now we cannot take risks in the field of defence and security. It is extremely regrettable that all this controversy with all the counterproductive and misleading statements that, unfortunately, have sounded in explaining recent government decisions. Madam Prime Minister, I am giving you the opportunity to answer the questions set out in the written text concerning the events of 9 May. And I will give you, Madam Prime Minister, an opportunity from this public representation hall to say a clear message: we are throwing into the trash these national defence cuts, we are not going against the Defence Forces of our country.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U162	Time, Urmas!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U163	I think this is the best time to do this. I would like to ask the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia, Kaja Kallas, to speak here! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U164	I reminded you that your time is up. Please, Prime Minister Kaja Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U165	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, good questioners! I applaud the performance that Urmas Reinsalu demonstrated here. But I'll answer the question. Is it true that military servants of the Defence Forces' headquarters and communications battalion were ordered on 9 May to wear civilian clothes instead of a uniform in the Defence Forces, and who issued such an order? On May 7, the Chief of the Staff and Communications Battalion ordered his staff to refrain, if possible, from moving around the Filter campus in a form on 9 May. The Defence Forces continuously assess the situation in both the physical and information environments and adapt their activities and measures to reduce unnecessary risks and ensure continuous combat capability. In this way, a risk assessment has been drawn up and mobility recommendations have been made by 9 May 2008 onwards. Just reminding me who the defence ministers were: during the period 2007 wasland Jaak Aaviksoo, 2011-2012 Isamaa Mart Laar, 2012/2014 Isamaa Urmas Reinsalu, 2016 wasland Margus Tsahkna, 2017 isamaaast Jüri Luik. And maybe it's important to note that the Commander of the Defence Forces was 2011.2018 Riho Terras, who is the elected ambassador of the Fatherland to the European Parliament. The second question: when such an order was given, what was meant by "the malicious use of the Estonian Defence Forces form"? First of all, Urmas Reinsalu, who was also the Minister of Defence at the time of such an arrangement, probably knows this much better than I do, but I read this answer: "The background of the decision was to take away the possibility of tearing the movement of the Defence Forces out of context in this area and putting them in an appropriate context to harm us or to portray it in some other way. Information activities against Estonia take advantage of every opportunity to show us in a negative light and the act was a conscious decision not to give it a chance." Thirdly, when such an order was given, do you understand the symbolic value it holds in a situation where Georgi is waved with ribbons and the Estonian state authorities prohibit their defence forces from wearing the uniform and suggest that they sneak into the troops in private clothes? Is this not a retreat from the Republic of Estonia? Former Minister of Defence Urmas Reinsalu, was this a retreat from the Republic of Estonia when you were similarly behind such an order? The Defence Forces are not afraid to wear the uniform and are not ashamed of it. Current criticism, confrontation, division contribute more to anti-Estonian activities than the movement of some defence forces in civilian clothing. The security of Estonia continues to be effectively guaranteed and the Defence Forces contribute to this every day in the most effective way, following the promise made to the state: "I swear to remain faithful to the democratic Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order, to protect the Republic of Estonia against the enemy with all my mind and strength, to be prepared to sacrifice my life for the Fatherland, to uphold the discipline of the Defence Forces and to fulfill all my duties precisely and irresistibly, bearing in mind that otherwise the law will severely punish me. " This oath remains steadfast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U166	Urmas Reinsalu is a procedure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U167	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Would you explain what it means, Madam Prime Minister, that I was somehow historically behind this? I found out about this thing what we had... in May 2021, when the newspapers published this information. The evening paper or what kind of paper it was. And such information has not been at my disposal in previous years, no matter what national tasks I have performed. The question, Mr. Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, was actually two things. Firstly, the question of the Prime Minister's assessment of whether this is a retreat from the Republic of Estonia, and secondly, I think we should give the Prime Minister the opportunity to use this chair to explain the national defence cuts and this situation. Is my reasoning understandable, and what is your assessment, Mr President of the sitting?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U168	Thank you. The reasoning is very understandable, but I am not going to make assessments or translate the sentences spoken in response to an inquiry. The honourable Member can directly ask the question. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U169	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Today we learned that the wreath from the Estonian people is still being taken that day, on 9 May. Not all organisations have the power to bring a wreath on behalf of the Estonian people. Did this order come from you? And can you explain what the people of Estonia are indebted to? Has the year 2021 suddenly fallen behind, just like the same obligation that the uniform should not be worn that day?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U170	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say to the former Minister for Defence, Urmas Reinsalu, that it is very embarrassing that you did not know what was going on in your administration when such an order was given. The fact that you found out about this in 2021 is somewhat surprising. But in coming to this question, the order we read here has been given by the Chief of Staff and Communications to his staff. After all, the reasons why it was granted have been set out. Whether it's in the way of time, it can be decided by the Commanders of the Defence Forces. The Commander of the Defence Forces has also expressed his views on how the Defence Forces should operate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U171	Urmas Reinsalu, procedural.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U172	Of course, it is a pity, Mr President, if you do not know all the questions in your area of government. But I am surprised at this question in the Chamber, Mr President, as it is surprising that it was not known. Was the previous Minister for Defence and the Prime Minister aware of this arrangement, or did it come as a post factum surprise to them because the press dealt with it? Similarly, any mischief in one area of government, whether it involves money laundering or any other matter that has occurred during some government period, as if it were some sort of incriminating logic. This may be the case when there is a lack of due diligence, but this certainly does not imply any automatic link. What matters is how they react when the information comes out. Is the President's interpretation overlapping with my question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U173	There were a number of questions and I will not give them an interpretation. I suggest, however, that the ambassadors ask the question as to when he found out what, then it's the safest. I don't know when the Secretary of Defense or the Prime Minister found out about a document. Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U174	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I have a question that concerns rather the reasons and what could now be achieved. Do you have any idea if the Defence Forces and the Department of Defense have carried out some kind of impact study on how this unpleasant situation is gonna hurt the defense? This is not just a matter within the Defence Forces, but a matter of national defence. Has a study been carried out or is it planned to be carried out, whether it had a good effect on the desire for protection or if it had a negative effect? And will there be any conclusions? It is very strange that such an arrangement may be made in the head of a commander in a unit. Is there something that should change in training here?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U175	Thank you. No such studies are known.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U176	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U177	Thank you, Prime Minister. The content of this inquiry and the previous inquiry is the same. The Secretary of Defense was very scurvy in his answers, answered with short sentences and short answers, and you are the same scurvy. In fact, you didn't open your assessment of what happened when you answered the question. Or quite rightly, when I now listened to the Minister of Defence and your answer, the Minister of Defence at least made it clear that he condemns it and considers that such orders should not be given in the future. You replied that the reasons have been given for how these things happen in the Defence Forces, and you have not yet stated your personal assessment and assessment as Prime Minister. Would you, however, give this assessment by answering the question and answering my question? And second, on 3 May, the 2+2 rule was abolished, it was just before 9 May. The government did not inform the public about this, and the whole Estonian public learned about it later. It probably had something to do with May 9, didn't it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U178	Thank you. Two questions. Firstly, the assessment has not been asked in this question, but if this has been the case since 2008, there is probably a reason for this. If this thing's been going through time, it's going to work. Now for the 3rd of May restrictions. It is just that we have this practice that we make these decisions two weeks earlier, and the decisions on the restrictions of 3 May were taken together with the decision on 26 April on the relaxation of the restrictions, or two weeks earlier. That is what we informed the public in exactly the manner we informed it, and at least in the "Actual Camera" those things were counted off and everywhere else where the public was given information. So we certainly didn't hide it, we talked about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U179	Urmas Reinsalu! But I don't see him in the hall right now. We'll come back to his question when he's here. Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U180	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! You have just mentioned that the Defence Forces and officials were wise when they applied such a restriction since 2008. But as Prime Minister, you are also the head of national defence, the head of the crisis committee, perhaps you are helping to model some kind of risk, how would the form of the Defence Forces be able to create provocations in such a peaceful event, which the police did not find particularly worrying either in the context of the Corona or in any other context? This is how provocations can be made everywhere, with the Defence Forces uniform, somebody standing behind a defense guard, taking a picture in a clown costume, and that's provocation. How do you rate it? Logically, what could have caused this since 2008?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U181	Thank you. We remember that there were bronze night riots in 2007 and, probably, in connection with this, such recommendations have been made since 2008.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U182	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U183	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! You are accusing the other political groups here that their ministers were also there when this arrangement was in force. In fact, you did not say that in 2008 both the Minister and the Commander of the Defence Forces were from the Reform Party. At that time, the Commander of the Defence Forces was Laaneots, and the minister, I think, was Ligi. But maybe I'm wrong. But the question I have is that the Orchestra of the Defence Forces is now leaving the service, because the positions need to be brought back to the Defence Forces. That means that the right to wear a uniform goes away from them. How will the Orchestra of the Defence Forces perform in the future, either in private clothes or in a separate uniform?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U184	Thank you. No, I'm not blaming others, I'm just saying that this arrangement has been in place since 2008. An inquiry has been submitted by the Fatherland, but most of the time since then to this day has been the Minister of Defence of the representative of the Fatherland. In 2008, it was Jaak Aaviksoo whose ministerial office lasted from 2007 to 2011. Ants Laaneots was indeed the Commander of the Defence Forces, that is true. But the question was, how did this arrangement come about? I can't answer about the orchestra, they're probably in the same form they've been in so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U185	Thank you. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U186	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. This event is undoubtedly regrettable and very embarrassing in the history of the Estonian people. But I would like to ask if, now that this issue has been up very much, you have received feedback from the authorities of the Defence Forces. What actions have been taken so that we no longer need to talk about it here next year or the next year, or even in the future? While the Commander of the Defence Forces has made his assessment in the paper that he didn't think it was right, have you been briefed, what steps are being taken to prevent such an embarrassing situation from arising?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U187	Thank you. The Commander of the Defence Forces has given his opinion, and apparently he has also said so to staff officers.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U188	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U189	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! It is very clear from what you have said today and from previous times that you are not making decisions. You take no responsibility; you always push decisions and take responsibility for other institutions and other persons. In this case, it is the Defence Forces, the Commander of the Defence Forces, the previous ministers are those who are responsible, but you are not responsible. You have that "you" all the time. But I say you're in charge now. You yourself are responsible for reducing the cost of protection. You yourself are responsible for the removal of the Estonian uniform. You yourself are responsible for giving up the honour and pride of every army, or orchestra. You yourself are responsible for the fact that in a crisis, some god of parts decides that we will make a silent surrender because there is no point in opposition. You're in charge! Do you understand that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U190	Thank you. In your world, I'm probably the one who walks and gives orders to everyone, including what someone can wear. But we just heard here that the last Secretary of Defense didn't even know about it. So I do not know who gave these orders at the time, in any case not the Minister of Defence, and probably not the Prime Minister. I think these things work exactly the way they do. We have different levels of governance, and that is exactly how these things should work in the country. I don't see anything wrong with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U191	Thank you. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U192	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister! What you said seemed to me like you actually knew this practice. Perhaps the Commander of the Defence Forces had informed you of this at the time. Anyway, you somehow tried to put the blame on the defence ministers at the time, leaving aside the role of Prime Minister. But really, today, the Reform Party is also the Minister of Defence, and you are responsible for the Prime Minister's responsibility. So you knew and didn't just think it was necessary to change this practice, and now that the press published it, you were just forced to admit that this was the case?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U193	Thank you. We heard today that even the former defence ministers didn't know about this practice, so it shouldn't be surprising that I didn't know anything about it before. And I just want to say that it's a little two-faced, when most of the time that such an arrangement has been in place has been the Minister of Defence of the Fatherland who has been responsible for these things, but you blame me for not knowing. But your own minister says he didn't know anything about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U194	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U195	Good manager! Good waitress! As I understand it, Prime Minister, you said that you didn't know that this kind of shit was going on since Ansip. And all the Ministers of Defence of Isamaa and Sots and Estonia 200 did the same. But I'm asking if it's okay that the Prime Minister says he doesn't know what orders are in the Defence Forces, and especially that he needs to be ashamed of his uniform on 9 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U196	If the previous defence ministers have not been aware of this, if it has been in place all along, then I cannot be blamed for not knowing it. When the Chief of the Staff and Communications Battalion gives orders, they really don't all reach me, I don't know what anybody's gonna decide. I think there are different levels here. First of all, we need to know what's going on in his administration. And as we have heard many times here, the previous defence ministers did not know that this practice was already in force since 2008.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U197	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U198	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The Defence Forces have reportedly confirmed that Lieutenant Colonel Priit Averkin, Commander of the Staff and Communications Battalion, ordered his staff to refrain from wearing the uniform if possible. I'm not going to ask you military matters, you don't know them anyway, just as you didn't know the circumstances of the vaccine. I'm gonna go to your amplage, hope at least there's some sort of constructive and correct answer. The Penal Code provides in § 446 for the abuse of a criminal offence such as power: a maximum sentence of five years shall be imposed on the chief for the abuse of power, power or authority. The question is this: since it is not known that this withdrawal of uniform is legal, do you intend to initiate proceedings on why it was done and whether power was abused?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U199	Thank you. I think you've taken one course at law school, or listened to some lectures, and you might know that the Penal Code applies to criminal proceedings. Criminal proceedings are conducted by the police, the prosecutor's office and then by the court. So it really is a question to the court.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U200	Kalle Grünthal, procedural.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U201	I have a procedural question. Our Home and Working Procedures Act provides not only for a procedural issue but also for protest, and I am now following a protest. Why does Kaja Kallas not answer the question whether he intends to investigate whether there was an abuse of the power provided for in criminal proceedings? I am of the opinion that here, in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, there is no need to be arrogant, but to answer questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U202	I answered the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U203	That wasn't the answer!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U204	Untie the Code of Criminal Procedure and see who applies the Penal Code paragraphs. [[Kalle Grünthal calls for something in the hall.]] It's not the government, it's the law enforcement.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U205	Yes, the Rules of Procedure say that questions need to be answered as far as possible. Next, Helle-Moonika Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U206	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Return to these charges in the direction of the Ministers of Defense of the Fatherland. It is, of course, well symptomatic that we continue to hear such rhetoric from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia, which is typical of kindergarten children: "Auntie, Auntie, he did too! " I recall, however, that the saga of abandoning the uniform began during the Reform Party, but the intermediate time is not important. What matters is that the Reform Party did it again. And the security situation is very dynamic; the eastern military activity in the West is now clearly visible, which is why the decision of 9 May this year is particularly regrettable. The Minister of the Reform Party was able to behave in this situation, not in a submissive and cowardly manner, but in a statesmanly manner. And this is what we are discussing here with you today, not what has been before. Do you agree that your party minister missed an excellent opportunity to show that we are a country and make a decision to interrupt the practice that your own party once established?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U207	Thank you. But I'm asking you, why didn't you, when you were in the government when the EKRE was in the government, call off the Minister of Defense in the Fatherland to tell me that's not the way to go? This was also the practice last year, the year before last. If you could have shown me everything you're talking to your mouth right now, you could have shown me that you're the people of action. But probably not.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U208	The point, Prime Minister, is that the ambassadors ask and the minister answers. Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U209	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I'm listening to your answers here, and you keep saying you weren't aware, you didn't know who was supposed to do what. Don't you think it's like giving up a place and letting someone more active, who knows everything, take over the affairs of the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U210	Thank you. Do you expect me to answer that when the Chief of Staff and Communications on May 7 gave orders to his staff, I knew that at the moment that order was given? Then I'd be lying. I didn't know that. If even the previous Minister of Defence did not know that such orders would be issued since 2008, I cannot say that I knew this on 7 May when the order was given. I don't want to lie to you, I'll tell you the way things are.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U211	Thank you. Mart Helme, procedural.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U212	I would like to make it clear that the Prime Minister cannot find out which discussions, summons, debates or comments were between coalition partners in the previous coalition. I don't remember Kaja Kallas being at Stenbock's house or somewhere else where we had conversations about this. And I can assure you that the representatives of our party, the ministers of our party, made a remark to Minister Jüri Luige that it is not appropriate to take a wreath on behalf of the Estonian people on 9 May. I can confirm that. There was a conversation on the subject. You don't know that, so don't blame us.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U213	Thank you. But if you made a remark, it didn't help, then you were...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U214	Now, let's not have a shouting contest here. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U215	Thank you. Well, it really surprises me that the Prime Minister doesn't know anything. I remember the Prime Minister didn't know anything about the police's excessive force demonstration here on Toompea against the demonstrators, but it turns out he did. The police informed him very accurately, and the Prime Minister was aware of everything. In fact, I am very sorry that your credibility has fallen practically close to zero because of all these spins and the accusations of others. But I would like to ask you that, while this uniform was banned, it was during Prime Minister Ansip, the Defence Forces began bringing the wreath to the memorials of the occupying army. For the first time, it was conducted by Prime Minister Ansip, and it will continue as it has so far. That's what we've been talking about here, that we've been protesting against it. I ask you to assess whether such a thing is acceptable and appropriate at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U216	Thank you. If there has been such a practice and you have not been able to dissuade others and you have continued to do so, it seems to me that there is an understanding between coalition and opposition in this regard. You continued this practice, the Fatherland has applied this practice and you have also sought to understand when they were in the position of the Minister of Defence in the government. Consequently, it is a practice that is kept alive.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U217	It is now such a picnic situation that we have two questions in writing, but one person is not in the hall and the other cannot ask another question. Ah, Kert Kingo has a question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U218	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, Prime Minister! You have repeatedly pointed out here that the Minister of Defence of the Fatherland was responsible and that the Minister of Defence of the Fatherland was responsible. I'm saying here that the Minister of Defense of the Fatherland was responsible when he was the Minister of Defence, not now. But at the moment, we are still talking about the Minister of Defence being a reformist person, and the Prime Minister is Kaja Kallas. I would now like to ask for your explicit reasoning on which arguments were not suggested to the defence forces on 9 May to wear the uniform. By now, when you come to the present question, you should already be aware of these reasons and arguments. I assume you were still a little prepared for this understanding.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U219	Thank you. Since you weren't in the hall at first, I'll bring those reasons back. These are exactly the same reasons that have been used since 2008: the desire to take the opportunity from the propaganda channels to tear the movement of defence forces out of the context in the area and put them in a context that is suitable for us, but which is damaging to us, or to imagine it maliciously in some other way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U220	Oh, my God! Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U221	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister! I started thinking about things back. You said that the same procedure or procedure or protocol has been in force since 2008. But please, Madam Prime Minister, who was the wise man who dared to assure you that for 13 years. Please tell me about this chair, whose statement you're relying on. Who knows that for 13 years? The question is, as the previous information was, this was ordered by the head of the unit, but the head of the unit has not been there for 13 years. I guess there's been a rotation. I don't know, it's more like four years or two years or three years. Give me some information, please! I'm not saying it's not true. It is possible that, at the level of the leader of the unit, the so-called envelopes have been passed on to the new leader, that there is a secret room somewhere. But I do stress that, at least as a member of the government, I was not aware of this historic order. For some reason, I don't think Prime Minister Ansip was aware of that either. I'd be surprised if I was aware. But tell me, who was this person, who knows so much about 13 years?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U222	I have materials that say the Defence Forces have constantly made such a threat assessment. This risk assessment has been drawn up and this movement recommendation has been issued since 2008. There's no particular name here, obviously the people in the Defence Forces have changed, who have borne this tradition. As you say, you were not aware of this arrangement, the Prime Minister of that time was not aware, and so you can explain to your colleagues in the EKRE that it is quite normal that the Minister of Defence is not aware and also the Prime Minister is aware of all such recommendations.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U223	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U224	Thank you very much, manager. Good Prime Minister! I don't want to go too far into conspiracy theories, but I'd still like to clarify to be sure. With which foreign organisation or foreign organisation was it agreed that the Estonian military form would not be used on a specific day?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U225	I can't go along with your conspiracy theories. I don't know that kind of information.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U226	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U227	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! We have some information here about the plan to transfer the HQ and communications battalion to Paldiski. Is this also linked to the threat assessment on 9 May, or is it simply a feeling of Pieteticism? The tender soul of the protagonists could be disturbed by the oppressive and massive presence of the Estonian Defence Forces behind the wall?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U228	Thank you. The Defence Forces are organizing their own work.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U229	Thank you. No further questions. We can go to the negotiations. First on behalf of the heirs, Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U230	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! On the previous item, we discussed the same issue. I regret to say that on the previous item, the defence minister's answers were extremely timid, stunty. And so was you. You answered the question formally and very briefly. Unfortunately, you left out your own assessment at all. I asked an additional question, and several other members of the Riigikogu tried to find out about your personal assessment of what happened, and not even as a citizen, but as the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia's assessment of what happened. But despite repeated questions, we did not receive it. In recognition of the Minister of Defence, it must be said that he at least said: in his opinion this instruction was wrong, it should not have been given, and he very much hopes that such instructions will no longer be given to the Defence Forces in the future. But we didn't hear that answer from you. I'd like to hear it. In fact, you didn't answer much of the question. Due to the Home and Working Procedures Act, the questioning part is also the questions asked by the heirs from this hall. And a large part of the inquiry included planned cuts in the area of the Ministry of Defence. But you completely missed that part of the question. But you still have the opportunity to conclude, you have the opportunity to answer the question, essentially, and also the questions that have been put here and to which you have not answered. I really hope you do. But now, when you say a few words about the content around which two questions have revolved, it is said that if, on May 9, near a bronze soldier or elsewhere in Tallinn, in the capital of the Republic of Estonia, in the capital of the Republic of Estonia, on the European day of an independent state, there is a uniform being walked, there is some way to provoke or irritate Russia, and therefore it is advisable and even mandatory for Estonian defence forces to hide their uniforms, it is still shameful. This is absolutely disgraceful! If we develop this logic further, we should not carry out the parades of the Defence League and the Defence Forces, where we demonstrate our defence capabilities, we will go out together with our allies. It's irritating, we know, very much about our eastern neighbor. The eastern neighbour is upset that we are working with our allies, that NATO allies are based in Estonia and so on. We shouldn't do this. Russia has also repeatedly pointed out that it does not like NATO units to be at its borders. It's a very dangerous way of thinking. It's a very dangerous way of thinking, and the transfer of this mind to the defence allies, the Defence Forces would be very regrettable, it would actually ruin our morals, it would be a blow to our defence wills. And that's pretty serious. I, too, am a member of the Defence League, I have been a member of the Defence League for almost 30 years, not since I was founded. The cuts concerning the Defence Forces and the Defence League, as well as the messages at Prime Minister level and the answer to the inquiry, where the Prime Minister does not dare to judge this and does not explicitly say before the Riigikogu that such arrangements in the Defence Forces are a very unfortunate case and very strongly corrupt the morals of the Defence Forces and have a negative effect on the defence wishes I'll have three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U231	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U232	And when we talk about the cuts you didn't want to talk about at all, a large part of the 270 people who go off to lay off as staff will surely qualify as people at the forefront. If it is possible now, in 2021, to mobilise 270 people in this way, then the Defence Forces have been dealt with in a massive waste. Doesn't the concentration of these 270 people affect our defenses, reduce our abilities? The exclusion of investments usually requires an increase in staff costs, as it also requires new staff training, training, new people who master this technology to be implemented. If all of this does not reduce our defence capabilities, if the postponement of the development of certain capabilities, which has now been recognised as such, has also been said by the Commander of the Defence Forces, does not reduce the security of our country, then it is incomprehensible and incomprehensible. As if it wasn't necessary to invest in it, we've kind of invented perpetuum mobile. People can be made redundant, capacity is not reduced, investment can be cancelled, capacity is not reduced, and capacity development can be delayed, it does not worsen our security situation. Well, then there's no need for defense expenses. That's very strange logic. In fact, we understand that this is a matter of wrestling. Let's be honest, then, that's the choice of this government coalition. We're going after national defence and security, we're cutting down, we're reducing our capabilities, that's an honest and clear answer. But to say that it doesn't reduce abilities isn't right, and we all understand that. Just as we also understand that banning the use of the form of the Defence Forces will certainly reduce the fear of defense and morale of the Defence Forces. I very much hope that in your closing remarks, Prime Minister, you will pull yourself together and answer the questions that have not yet been answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U233	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U234	Thank you, good vice chairman. I'm not so hopeful that something will come in the final word. In the end, we get these classic bingos: but what your government did, this, the second or the third. But I will begin with Hando Runnel's poem: "There is still seven hundred years to resist, just as seven hundred have been resisted, seven hundred years to come, and at first only a hundred, maybe there will be, but surely there will not be. " While Hando Runnel wrote it, he still wrote a lot of thoughts between the lines. Indirectly speaking, say, about the German occupation, but we all realized what we were talking about. And so, in the land of the purple evenings, this collection of poetry was banned because there was quite a lot of writing between the lines. The people of Estonia may have been of a more acceptable nature. Yes, the problem was that again and again the wreath came from the Estonian people. But just this spring, it also turned out that in addition to that wreath, the uniforms of the Defence Forces were forbidden, and that was what really encouraged people's sense of justice. Because now these two things are together, and now we have the problem of whether it will continue to be prohibited to wear the form on European Day and whether the government will continue to think it is appropriate to put a wreath from the Estonian people to the occupiers. That's the answer! That's the answer! We can read in the Steinogram: Prime Minister Kaja Kallas said that this is a tradition that deserves to be kept alive. He said it, no one else. Now a little bit of history. We have a good colleague here, Oudekki Loone, who once made the 8 May movement before 2007. He said that he wanted to appreciate that on 8 May the Second World War ended in Europe. Now, there's a neighboring country next to us who has a whole other thing, they're not celebrating World War II. They can't celebrate the big one. We know that September 22nd is the day of Tallinn's demolition, but oh, no, the year was 1939 when on September 22nd in Brest-Litovsk the Nazi German and Communist Russian armies had a parade, because Poland had been conquered. But they don't talk about such a heroic step, just celebrating us here from time to time. What does it have to do with the end of World War II in Europe on 8 May? Yeah, well, there's a proofreading here, because Loone's going through on 9 May. For me, it's always been a question of what this great patriotic war was. But I've been spending some time in front of the Russian embassy, and still people have come and told me that you have misunderstood, that there is no armed conflict in Ukraine. And I have said that you know that the Great Patriotic War has not taken place either, was simply German humanitarian aid to Moscow, and we treat it as such. And let's treat all these other things like this. Today, of course, there was quite a sensible debate, I liked it. At first, the Prime Minister tried to tell us that both the wreath and all these things and arrangements were decided by the Chief of the Staff and Communications Battalion, he tried to tell us that the 2+2 rule disappeared already on 26 April and only on 3 May was found out and the Estonian-language media was informed just a little later. But the Prime Minister said there was a great lack of truth. The journalists do not simply ask why they were informed later, and the answer came that in fact, sorry, they forgot to inform the Estonian media that the 2+2 rule did not apply. Usually the truth is somewhere in between. I believe that the Prime Minister's words must be taken with a very strong reservation, because they have a pretty large deficit of truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U235	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U236	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! What happened is, of course, slavery, slave self-pity, perhaps even. This means that I don't dare put on the uniform, and the decision is taken that we don't upset the other side. That's not how it's been. As the leader of the border guard's district in Ida-Virus, I was so insisting that in my spare time, border guards would be in uniform and go to Narva. And that was 1990, 1991, 1992. We were not afraid to irritate the forces on the other side of the border, nor the civilians who lived in Narva. On the contrary, the fact that we were in shape showed that we were there. It also showed the people of Estonia that we exist, we are in Narva, we are in Ida-Virumaa. The pre-war regulations, the uniform regulations, prescribed a military officer to wear the uniform even in his spare time. We had Colonel Saar who taught us. When you go to the theater with your husband, put on your uniform. You honor the uniform and honor your country and your people. Look, we have officers! As an officer of the Defence Forces, I have still tried to wear uniforms, and I have also demanded that my subordinates wear uniforms even when I was high on the Defence Forces headquarters and that was my responsibility. But then, this was the year 2008, came the demands that no longer be required to walk in the free time uniform. Today we have reached the point that officers generally go to work in private clothes, put on uniforms, the service is in uniform, and then change their clothes again and come home in private clothes. That's exactly what cops do. I'm sorry to see the D.O.A. Department of Homeland Police wearing private clothes. I don't think they respect themselves or their uniforms, but you can't blame them. That's the chief's problem. This is the same guide to wearing the same form that should be reviewed. In fact, it should lead to what was before the war: respect your uniform, honor your country and honor the people who have given you the right to wear the uniform. So we love our Estonia, we love our uniform, we love our Defence Forces and we try not to limit the capabilities we have achieved and for which we stand! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U237	Mart Helme, please! Do you want some extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U238	I think I do. I'm sure I do. Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Colleagues! Not on the phone? I watched you all the time on the phone during previous calls, and I realized why you don't know anything about what's going on in the government that's going on in the country. You're on the phone all the time. Of course, there is a lot of interesting, but not what is happening specifically in the country on certain matters. And I was thinking that, I remembered the old story. Standing in a wild field on a hill with three heroes, Ilya Muromets, Dobrynya Nikitich and Alyosha Popovich. Popovich's watching, there's something moving on the horizon. Dobrynya Nikitich says: "Just like a Tatar. " Ilya Muromets sums it up nicely: " Boys, it's time to get out of here. "That story came back to me when news came that Estonian soldiers, Estonian Defence Forces, were urged or even banned from moving in uniform around the Defence Forces Cemetery on 9 May. Guys, it's time to fuck off! The fact that we have a country doesn't matter to anyone at all. The fact that we have to show that we respect our country, our uniform, our Defence Forces, ourselves doesn't matter. It doesn't matter! As long as enemy propaganda doesn't get gunpowder. But they've got enough gunpowder without it. There's no shortage of gunpowder. I can tell you, Prime Minister, the following about this gunpowder. You probably don't know that, although you can certainly read about it on the phone. But you're probably not looking for these pages that tell us that our potential opponent doesn't have to move any soldiers across our borders, you don't have to move any armored vehicles, tanks, cannons across our borders. Because from the White Sea, the Black Sea, the depth of a neighbouring country, it is possible to give us such massive long-distance light that the houses in which we make our country here are essentially wiped out of the face of the earth in hours. But he won't if he knows we have a defense. He won't if he knows we're not gonna cheapen it. He knows we're fighting back, he knows we've gotten ourselves weapons that hurt. But your government, and now you yourself, are responsible, you yourself, who love to keep saying: "But you yourselves! But you! " You yourself are responsible if the opponent, the potential adversary, does not fear us. And don't count on the allies, because we can only rely on the allies if we have the ability to create the enemy's knowledge that we are not so over the edge of the table. That we have the ability that we have the will to protect, that we have the motivation that we have well-trained units. Only then, only then will we have the hope of helping our allies. Because allies don't come to help a country that's practically going to collapse. And your cuts, your subverting morals with orchestras, chaplains, yes, with other cuts, with the banning of uniforms, will create a situation where we will be taken as a joke. They may be banging somewhere in their Sil's exercises, but they really don't work, and they don't really have the capacity to last long enough for their allies to help them. It's your policy. And it's criminal. And you yourself are responsible for this because you are the Prime Minister. And if you say you don't know anything, then step down because you don't qualify as Prime Minister. Step back, go away! You have shown us many times during these Nets demonstrations, with the suggestions of cuts, with your answers here: you will not be able to cope with this profession. You just can't do it! You have an arrogance, but you don't have the ability, you don't have the knowledge, you don't have the skill. And you know what you're missing the most? Authorization! You have no authority in front of us either here or before the members of the local government, nor in front of the old skilled official fish. You just don't have authority. Because authority comes in a very long time. You haven't earned it yet. Come to this hall, sit here in a couple of formations! Why don't you take a simpler minister's office? I don't know what this easier ministry is. It's always possible to be two ways. The ministers of your government are ministers of convenience, who allow officials to be delivered, and then they say that officials must not be involved in their work. The leaders of the offices themselves decide, the officials decide, the Gods of pieces know better than the ministers. But the ministers are coming here to give us something beautiful, as they say in English, a mumbo jumbo. You also gave us a mumbo jumbo here, the leg started to kick, I would have liked to dance, but, well, knees already hurt, there's no longer a dance lion like the old days. Yeah, I'm sorry for you because you're responsible for the country and you can't handle it. Give an opportunity to take responsibility for the state to others who are more capable of you, who have authority and who understand that... Well, you can't speak foreign languages in this hall. Who says, first things first. First things first! The last Arrogant Prime Minister, who went to Ämari Airport during the election campaign, walked there, and the allies' planes fell behind him like "the forest is falling and the cuckoo is falling," but fortunately the planes did not crash. Don't expect these planes in the background to guarantee our defense if we make the wrong decisions! I do not want to quote the President of our eastern neighbour, who sent a message to our most important ally, the leaders of the United States: you think you are enormously strong and you can make mistakes, but you are not so strong that you can make mistakes. And that goes for us, too. We can't make mistakes, but you make mistakes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U239	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U240	Thank you, Mr President. I don't want any more time. Today, ladies and gentlemen Urmas Reinsalu and Helir-Valdor Seeder have submitted an inquiry order to Prime Minister Kaja Kallas not to enter the form of the Defence Forces. First of all, I'd like to open up the Prime Minister's definition. The Prime Minister is the head of the government who has been appointed to organise the work of the official body and is also responsible for their work. But what did we hear today about these questions? What were the answers? Basically, it can be summed up by a single beautiful sentence: "He was a hero, like a Soviet partisan, who was imprisoned by the Germans, and arrogance taunted his torturers." Ladies and gentlemen of the Fatherland, the next time you ask the Prime Minister a question, please do not get the name wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U241	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U242	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have a personal connection with this bronze soldier. My neighbor Enn Roos made it, and my entire childhood has passed with the Rose family. He wasn't some Alyosha. But that's it. But through this bronze soldier, whether he's in Tõnismäe or now in the military cemetery, a number of very important things are drawing out. And I'll describe some of them to you. I told Secretary of Defense Laanet a little bit about the last question, but now I'm opening up a little bit. Prime Minister, I do not know if he listened to my speech, but he has largely repeated that thanks. When I read who the Defense Ministers and the Commanders of the Defence Forces have been. You will, however, follow the situation in the Riigikogu Hall! But what matters is who initiates tradition, who is the root of evil or good. And I can assure you, Prime Minister, there is no doubt here. I've been watching the bronze soldier for a long time, for many years, and I have very thorough files. This initiative began during the 14 years of Andrus Ansip, your dear party partner. This tradition began already in 2006. Kalle Laane was, by the way, the Minister of the Interior until 2005, and on Bronze Night we met and worked quite closely together. I forgot to congratulate Kalle in the last speech. So I've seen this thing up close. But what was it? I looked up what Andrus Ansip said in my files in an interview with ERR on April 21, 2017. He spoke, I quote: 2006 was, in a sense, a pivotal year. This was the year in which the flag of the Republic of Estonia was not allowed to be displayed in the heart of the capital of the Republic of Estonia. It was rolled up and taken to a police car and, of course, it caused resentment. End of quote. There is another interview, but I am not going to read it, it also sounded in the ERR, but a little later, in the case of the beginning of the previous government, where the respected Andrus Ansip spoke of the same thing, that he still remembers it deeply: before the Bronze Night, the Estonian flag in the centre of Tallinn did not pay to wave. But let's come back now. That's when tradition was laid. The Prime Minister was Ansip, the Minister of Defence was Jürgen Ligi, later came Jaak Aaviksoo, the Commander of the Defence Forces was our good colleague, Ants Laaneots, whom we unfortunately do not see here today. And at that time, it would be interesting to know how it happened, and it was decided. And what if the Prime Minister doesn't know anything right now, and all those defence ministers who have been in the meantime, be they from the Fatherland, from the Sats, from wherever they can make sense that they don't know. It's just a tradition that was born, and that's what it was. And what was the tradition? The uniform of the Republic of Estonia must not be worn and must be wreathed. I come back to the Ansip quotations: I cannot wave the Estonian flag. It was 2006, 2007 and that's where this thing started and it's ticked so quietly. Who can I reproach? To my former colleagues in the press. Guys, you haven't been good! You've never snooped it out before. It just turned out there's been a mess. But that's it. Now, if we come back to the end of last year, remember what was in here? Ladies and gentlemen, again, Ants Laaneots! Where are you, Ants? What did you propose?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U243	Peter, it's possible to take extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U244	Yes, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U245	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U246	What was the suggestion? In the Russian Federation! Or the current Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Marko Mihkelson, a good colleague again, suggested that the Russian sphere of influence should go. Or Valdo Randpere, old fish: we break NATO and restore the Soviet Union. Look, what these people have deep down is reflected in jokes. It's been said they were jokes. Remember, there were some colleagues here who suggested that marriage be 12 years old and 13 years old or 14 years old. I'm not going to name names. Well, I think certain gentlemen have this sort of thing at least in the sense of doing the old-age thing with young children. But you can always say it was a joke. So I think it's actually the important core of the matter, and where it all came from, it's perfectly clear. This is the deep tradition of the Reform Party, which has lived to this day. And now that Kalle Laane finishes it, hat off, honor him! But as for the Prime Minister, when he says he really didn't know, I guess I didn't. But, Prime Minister, maybe you're responding to a recent question when I asked if you asked for an extension when Police General Vaher, Head of the Police and Border Guard Board, announced that the next day he would like to bring it to us in April, the riot police and dogs and gardens to Toompea, but you wanted to come here and present us with a white book. Madam Secretary, you're looking at the phone again. I'm sorry! Did you ask for an extension at the time that you shouldn't come here to present the white book while the dogs were yapping in front of Toompea Castle and the riot policemen were standing here with machine guns? You didn't answer me last time, so why don't you answer here? Because it's not a long time away, it's about this month of April, when the people were afraid of the police state and your government brought it, I don't know why, the police and the dogs out. True, the clubs weren't, so respect for it! The dogs did not burst like they did in Tartu during Andrus Ansip. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U247	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U248	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister! The form of the Estonian Defence Forces is part of our country and an important part of our national defence, just as there is the Orchestra of the Defence Forces, just as there are chaplains and as it is, of course, weaponry. We must look at all of this as a whole. It is extremely regrettable that a practice has been born that we should be ashamed of our military uniform. And it is very regrettable, Prime Minister, that you actually did not express your position very clearly on this practice, but you referred to anonymous memos on how it was born. It's just that it's been there ever since, and that's all. The Secretary of Defense before you said that when so much criticism is being made, I have done something well, and I am proud of it. You know, I'm not proud of that. It is not proud that we are going to the financing of the Defence Forces, even though they are trying to do a hat trick here and say that funding is increasing. Indeed, it will, but according to plans. And you were also the one who said last autumn that the Defence Forces must be financed in the long term, that plans are in place for a long time and that defence is a cross-party activity. Now you seem to have forgotten it. And I'm sorry about that. The Secretary of Defense has no reason to be proud, not even for a cent. Why, then, are we moving a little bit slower than this is in this second DOD memo, if everything is so good that there's a reason to be proud? The only thing that really has reason to be proud of today is that the Secretary of Defense has come to terms with his mistake. And maybe next year it won't happen again. I hope that you will also acknowledge here that there is no reason to be ashamed of the Estonian Defence Forces' form near the bronze soldier or far from the bronze soldier, for example on the Narva River. It is part of Estonia; it is part of Estonia's national defence. And the Prime Minister must be the one who carries this symbol without any anonymity. He must be the first to carry that flag and that message. There is no doubt about that. And I very much hope that today's inquiry has led you to know that you have no other alternative. Another alternative would be to abandon the Prime Minister's position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U249	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U250	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I wondered for a while if I'd come here to talk or not. I have listened to these two questions here today and heard different thoughts, and I thought that I would open up this subject as a simple Estonian person, as a member of the Estonian Defence Forces and as a reserve officer from there, but as a member of the Defence League and as a reserve officer from there at first. When I served time, wearing the uniform was an honor. Those who know anything about the Defence Forces know that the Defence Forces have a term called "internal communications." The conscripts are going through training, they're doing what's been done today, I dare say, very good and better in time. But as for the very sad thing we've been talking about today, I'm very upset. I was one of the guys who was out on Bronze Nights, guaranteeing security with my team in Rapla County as a platoon leader. We also wore the uniform with great joy and pride back then. I can't imagine if the company commander came in today and told me that René, please, tell your squad fighters to put the uniforms away. We can't go out there because maybe we're upset. I can't imagine the face I'd have to go to my unit and tell them I got this order from my immediate chief. This is inconceivable and I am very pleased that this issue has recently been dealt with so much. I hope that all those superiors, authorities and other actors involved, who are involved in the fact that such a thing existed here for years, such a silent practice, have drawn their conclusions. I hope that we will never have to discuss this again in this Chamber or elsewhere in Estonia, and wearing the uniform is self-evident for all our defence forces, for the representatives of the force structure, that they will do so with pleasure, respect and respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U251	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U252	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister! Dear dear people, guardians of the country, leaders, simple people in homes! I think we've all figured out what's going on here today. After all, this is not just a single form, but a bigger, more painful and more important issue. This shows that for 30 years we have been restoring our country and taking it somewhere we have not wanted to go. We have taken it to a level where we are ashamed of our own content, where everything that is a stranger has become honorable. A foreign message, a foreign form, a foreign culture must be respected because otherwise we insult them. But our form, our traditions, our values, we don't have to respect them, maybe this respect can offend anyone. We've been leading our country on the wrong path for 30 years. And the few moments that this country has been trying to turn in the right direction have perhaps been too short. I mean, it's embarrassing. It's just embarrassing! For me, perhaps the biggest surprise was, but it was said that concealing and concealing this form has been happening for 13 years. It's like an alarm clock to me. That things are wrong with traditions and values, I kind of realized. But such a small thing as hiding the uniform that it's been hidden for 13 years, so no one knows even that it was still a very big surprise. I would like to say this so as not to talk long and repeat the very many words that have already been said here, that we need to consider very well how we are moving forward. We need to think very well about moving our country, how we view the values, symbols of our own people. And this evil liberal slipper, a false animal that has been released, we must keep, as the classics have said, on a chain as short as possible. May God give us strength and strength on this difficult road! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U253	Helle-Moonika Helme, please! Three minutes extra time, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U254	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, Good Prime Minister! I figured since you could see the Prime Minister's on the phone all the time, I'd come up here, I'd be on the phone a little bit. And if the Prime Minister's body language was always understood that he doesn't care much about what those people are saying, who are sitting in this hall, then I will read to him from this phone what the voice of the people says. Its title reflects very well the actions of the current government, and this title is "A discussion of hustle is not worth hoping for." Somehow unexpectedly, we've been caught in the middle of a crop. There's nothing deplorable about it in itself. Water husks need cutting, and a good housewife steals the foam from the surface when she boils soup. The main thing is to be targeted and to know what cuts are going to achieve: less bureaucracy, less duplication or quite unnecessary activities. It'll do you good. But, as life shows, anything can be screwed up, especially when there is no definite goal that is still to be achieved by all this hustling. If the Head of Government is limited to giving the ministries a percentage of how much must be cut, leaving the decision-making power to these same bureaucrats, then you can already be sure that this will go wrong. If the Head of Government says that the ministries themselves know best what austerity points are, then it turns itself into a passive observer, who is not interested in the substance of the matter, but rather in fulfilling the percentage. Each one of them will be dragged into a ditch sooner or later when they measure with one long tree. Some administration would suffer even harder cuts, but some ministry would need extra money. It is particularly insane, however, to put costs on someone else. The state drastically reduces the financing of youth interest activities by saying, as a justification, that it is better for municipalities to pay. It is as if the latter were something outside the Republic of Estonia. It's not like there's a cut money we can make something new with. If you only take money from your left pocket all day long, can you be glad at the end of the day that there is so much left in your right pocket that you cut the cost of a much better pocket? Stupid would think he got richer with those manipulations. Unfortunately, it's a long way from the truth. If Laanet and Herem manage to plant the Orchestra from their necks into the War Museum, where will there be savings? But that should be the point of cutting. Yes, one of the narrow areas of activity was now spared some expense, but the state as a whole did not win anything out of this kind of vanger unless, as a result, the orchestra started acting without a salary and started musicalizing on homemade instruments. But that hasn't happened. Where's the cut? Where's the savings? Instead, they were able to ridicule themselves as well as the entire plan of the cut, as the Prime Minister had to admit. By shoveling money from one pocket to another, they were able to bring huge damage to their reputation without achieving any savings. I'd like to compare it with the redecorating of the money in the pocket of the underwear, and in the process, you had to put your pants on the foxes in front of the whole world. So was it necessary? What if it's free to make a fool out of yourself, who's gonna be able to put their hands on it? All the more so since the head of government appears to be living in a parallel universe or even in a flat country with a very different reality. Any attempt to engage in a common sense dialogue with him is already destined to fail. But I guess I've seen it before that it's the angels of peace who call themselves the greatest destruction around them. But what's so wrong with knowing in advance that EKRE is responsible for everything anyway? Who did this? Lible did! Who tore it up? EKRE tore! And there is peace on earth, with flat ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U255	Leo Kunnas, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U256	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Echo! Secretary of Defense Kalle Laanet has already given a clear answer here on the remote that this was a mistake and that this error will be corrected. I am satisfied with this and will not deal with it further. But what needs to be addressed is the state of defence, financing and capacity development. Well, that's an important subject. And, good Echo, if you remember, the first day we trusted you in this Riigikogu, I asked two questions. One I asked about midland air control, was it important, and you said yes, it's important, and the other I asked about funding because they're connected. So how to finance it, you didn't give a clear answer to that moment. But now we are in the position that, on 12 May, we had quite an important vote here on strategy 2035, where we had proposed improvements so that it would be necessary to increase the cost of defence to 2.6% until the end of this decade, so that important capacity developments It is pointless to reproach that yes, these decisions should have been made sooner. Well, that won't help us today. Yeah, 2014 should've done it before. But like I said, it's not going to help right now, but now we're not really getting out of those decisions. How, then, can we make these decisions? Where's the money coming from? There's really no choice but to borrow. I also spoke to the Minister for Finance when he was present, that, in fact, in order to increase to 2.6%, we have no solution but to borrow 5% of GDP to the end of the decade. This amount is between 2% and 2.6%. I'll get some comparisons now. The United States is our main ally that we are counting on. The US public debt has now increased to USD 28,376 trillion, which is 127% compared to their GDP. And this year, the United States has a total product of about 22 trillion and defence costs they have a little over 700 billion dollars. Much of this loan goes to keep defence costs, and it has been so over the years, all the presidents of both parties have consistently done so. In essence, the protection of Europe has always been partly financed by the United States at the cost of continuing to borrow. And now it won't be any different if President Biden takes out 1.9 trillion loans, and some of it also covers defence costs. If the United States were to go the same way towards a balanced budget, it would mean that they would have to liquidate the United States' European military leadership in the fullest sense. It's a serious story. We have a choice, which is more dangerous, either to increase public debt to 5% of GDP or to move forward with those power gaps that we have not been able to fill, and to be in a situation where we are in very serious difficulties when war breaks out. I don't want to use any other expression here than that these aren't equal decisions on weight scales. Let me give you another example. Our northern neighbour is Finland, whose public debt is rising to 75% of GDP. Finland will increase its defence costs by 1.7 billion next year, not by 1.7 million, but by a billion in order to start the procurement of fighter aircraft. Finland does not delay or reduce the number of fighters in its fighter aircraft. It is still the same as 64 and it will cost EUR 9.4 billion. And they're gonna get more basketballs, and Finland's gonna take a lot of credit. Lithuania and Poland will increase defence costs to 2.5% of GDP to the end of the decade. The Swedish and Norwegian Parliaments have rejected the ten-year development plans last year because their assessment was that they were not sufficient. There is a need to increase defence costs and more needs to be done in the security situation where we are. And we have all admitted that the security situation was serious. It's serious, and the prognosis is it won't get any better. And with 2.02% of GDP, it is simply not possible to fill these gaps or significantly strengthen national defence, which we need to do. That is why I am calling here for these cuts in national defence and internal defence decisions to be reversed, and not only: defence costs must be raised to 2.6% in the coming years. Not one year, we can't do that. This year we spend 2.27%, next year with this reduction it will rise to about 2.31%, but it cannot go down, but it has to go up. And in order to do that, once we have voted down this 2.6% proposal, there is no other solution than that we may have to make a separate decision, either in the government or here in the Riigikogu, which concerns several governments, which we then do with mid-earth air control. We should make a simple decision to do this, for example, in 2022, 2023, 2024 and 2025. Either we do one battalion with four batteries, three batteries or two batteries. The battalion in this case is a little less than 300 million, if less, it's a quarter or a half less. But there's a decision we should make. We do not have much room for choice as to whether or not to make this decision. And if we postpone it, it's just dangerous. Lithuanians, I recall, made their mid-earth air control decision in 2016 and did not reach their initial operational capability until the end of last year. So if we decide something today, we'll see the result in three or four years. We will not see this during this period of government. Here's the choice. And, of course, if we have to break the European Union's stability criterion for this, I also mentioned to Mrs Keidu that then we must ask for separate permission from the European Central Bank or also from the European Commission. We just have a security situation like this. Those are the weight. And it concerns all of us, all of us, all of the political parties, all of the following governments. It's a very serious and long-stretched decision. Thank you! That's all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U257	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U258	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, What are those uniforms so much? They're just some kind of symbol. The symbols don't go into battle, they don't reduce their defenses. But it's not just about symbols and just about those uniforms. It's a small fragment of a much larger picture. This next fragment is chaplains. Really, who wins battles with chaplains? Chaplains are a relatively small thing, maybe a beauty thing in the army. Let's unravel them. Or orchestras. Well, the purely symbolic thing that wins the battle with the orchestra. By the way, as a cultural historian, I know several battles that were won by the orchestra. I think the last example is the Russian-Japan war. But these are small symbols. Go on, let's cut the percentage of defense expenditure! Really, this percentage won't go into battle, it's only one symbol. Which is because our Eastern neighbour is increasing these percentages, even though it is in a very poor economic situation, and there that percentage is more than twice as high as ours. And finally, we'll reduce the personnel in the army. And on that, we hear from the Defense Ministers that this will not reduce our defence capabilities. I do not know exactly what is behind here, but if we look at the history of re-independence Estonia, we see that indeed, the Reform Party has such a constant feature that defence expenditure may be such an unnecessary burden, the country has more important things. I am not saying that there are no other important things in the country, there are, but we are not in a geopolitical situation where we can think like this pacifistically. I'm reminding you of history more than half a century ago. In 1945, after the end of World War II, one of the leading philosophers of the 20th century, perhaps even the most authoritative philosopher Bertrand Russell, proposed to preventively bombard the Soviet Union with atomic bombs. It was supposed to be economically useful, then who is now at war with conventional weapons. But after a while, it turned out that the Soviet Union also has an atomic weapon and even a hydrogen bomb. And then he had another idea. Since the mutual use of atomic bombs is not philosophically feasible, the UK army should still be brought together and, in all telephone booths, if you pick up a pipe, it is in Russian that we give up. We haven't gotten this far right now, but if I listen to any other ideas that could be cut off from the military, we won't hear that sentence, but there's something whispering there. It seems to me that this whisper is heard on the other side of our eastern border, sorry, control line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U259	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U260	Mr President, thank you very much. Madam Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lotman spoke of symbols, the value of symbols. The form of the Defence Forces is undoubtedly a symbol. I have the background of the Erna Society, along with good comrade Madis Milling. Erna Society started a year before the millennium exchange an undertaking called Utria dessand in Ida-Virumaa, Narva-Jõesuu and Narva. At the time, when we were organizers of the Defence League's cars and in full form, true, unarmed, some of the people there were obviously hostile to us. Our cars were parked, blocked off, and no body language, for example, some of Sillamäe salesmen's communications were obviously hostile. But we've seen a change of attitude over the years. It's getting better. Too bad General Laaneots isn't here today. He could explain who was behind this ban in 2009 so that the uniform should not be put on. It is such a bad situation in the Defence Forces that such restrictions begin to live their lives and are taken as a tradition at one point. In the end, no one knows who decided at first. Perhaps in 2009, when the atmosphere was still anxious, it was even justified. But believe me, those people who wear uniforms take the country and Estonians to places where it is not very loved to those who think that some incomprehensible Republic of Estonia has temporarily occupied their home. There was no victory holiday parade in Narva... repairing the Defence Parade, the Independence Day parade. It was still to lead us, our armed forces and our allies to those people who may not love us very much and from the heart. But believe me, these people respect the uniform and they respect the power. It's just the way it is. And if, for example, the Alutaguse chess Narva company for Russian fighters who may not speak Estonian at all or speak ill, say that now you are ashamed of this flag on your sleeves and take off this uniform with good companions, I cannot imagine the courtesy we will receive from them. I think they're refusing directly and in principle. It's just out of the question. It doesn't fit their souls. Those people who want to protect Estonia must be respected. And they can't be handled using the Excel table. We can't draw a line: so, in this country, the purchase of weapons and equipment ends and we just have these people killed. We're already weak. I read about a month ago that two studies were carried out in Sweden, that the war situation was correctly played if the Russian Federation were to attack. Of course it was a game. No one was counting on the unfortunate four national battalions in the Baltic States in this analysis. This whole game in this big geopolitical situation went over our heads. It was described in: Well, they still resist a little bit. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U261	Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U262	The main focus was on whether the Baltic Sea could be blocked in the Kaliningrad region, how strong Russian air defence is, whether NATO aircraft could break through. It was a big game. We weren't even counted on. We really were somewhere in a small cell that yes, they're fighting on our side basically, but we don't count on them. That's the bad thing where you can't play with Excel's chart anymore. We're playing with people's lives, the lives of people who want to protect our country. And the world has changed. The world isn't like it was five years ago. All the threat assessments say, "Let's put the threat of war aside for the time being, that one country has two vital, existentially important things: food security, which we have very weak, but we are dealing with this a little bit, and energy security, which we have begun to destroy. And that's very bad. So the situation is excellent, ladies and gentlemen, but not hopeless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U263	The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish to speak. Prime Minister Kaja Kallas has asked for the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U264	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for this debate. First of all, I will start by saying that the Reform Party has always stood up for defence expenditure. At the very beginning, when you think about it years ago, we introduced the fact that 2% of gross domestic product has to be invested in defence expenditure. There were so many opponents back then that we had to convince them it was important. If you look at history, you'll see that's exactly what happened. We have had to convince many opponents about this: do not worry about it; we will certainly stand for it. To Urmas Reitelmann, I would like to say that for the first time I agree with the content of your speech in most cases, you had a very good speech. Yes, absolutely agree that the people who protect us must be respected, this form must be worn with pride. I would not agree if someone was ashamed of this flag or this uniform, and it certainly is not, on the contrary, it is respected in every way. But listening to all this questioning talk, it seems a little duplicitous to me. The Fatherland, which has held most of the time since 2008, for the Minister of Defence, has done nothing with this recommendation in force. Now he says it's a big mess. And on the other hand, there's an EKRE, about whom the old folks would say the mouth is making a big city, with no fly's hand. Indeed, as a vigilante said here, you have allegedly made a comment to the Minister for Defence of the Fatherland, but you were still too weak to push your will through. Even though you were in the government, you couldn't help it if it was a custom. But what about this history? I think it's important, and it seems to me that we all agree that wearing the uniform of the Defence Forces is a matter of pride. And I think all the Defence Forces are proud to wear it. However, these threat assessments were linked not only to the ordinary war, but to the information war, to the hybrid war. It is not intended to provide the enemy or opponent with tools in the information war. Here, Mr. Chef, it is not a question of fearing someone. The question is, in fact, the maliciousness of the opponent, and he wanted to take advantage of it. I will simply give an example, when the crisis in Ukraine began, the Western public was actually confused about what was happening there. And I understand the recommendations that still apply: don't give it to the opponent of the tool, don't give it a chance to abuse maliciously. But it seems to me that to end this debate, you can say that perhaps this suggestion has lived up to its time. Perhaps there is no more such maliciousness, there are no such dangers as were in 2008 immediately after the riots of April. Just as you said, Mr Reitelmann, that there are things being done in the Defence Forces that may be going on without even paying attention to such things. Therefore, once it has been noticed, perhaps it is time to change it, and that is what the Commander of the Defence Forces has said. I think the most important thing is that the uniform of the Defence Forces must be worn with pride, and it will be carried with pride. There is no doubt about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U265	We have exhausted the second item.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U266	We will move on to the third item, which is the inquiry submitted by Riigikogu members Raimond Kaljulaid, Riina Sikkut, Heljo Pikhof and Eduard Odines concerning the programme of action of the Government of the Republic. Raimond Kaljulaid, as the representative of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U267	Ladies and gentlemen, are you leaving the hall or not? Prime Minister! In fact, it did not occur to me until some time ago that this issue of education policy must be addressed to the Prime Minister. The role and responsibility of the Prime Minister in Estonia are very high and his working hours are very expensive. But, unfortunately, the issue of Russian-language schools has arisen in a peculiar situation and, as I recall, in a rather unprecedented situation. This issue is important for many schools, teachers and other school staff, thousands of parents and children. It is understandable that reforms in the field of education are an issue that needs to be considered very thoroughly. There's no room for error. Education for our children must not become weaker as a result of reforms. In preparation for such reforms, involvement is essential and transparency is equally important in order to build confidence. However, this transparency and unambiguousness has not been there in recent months. When the Prime Minister spoke in January about the government's programme of action in the "Actual Camera," he pointed out that the key priorities of the government that took office were to move forward with a common education in Estonian and to take steps to ensure that the education system continues in Estonian. This is one of the most important priorities of the Central Party and Reform Party government. Right here in front of the Riigikogu, the Minister of Education and Research, Liina Kersna, said in April that the drafting of this action plan and the start of the work of the preparatory working group is a very important step towards making substantive decisions on the way to Estonian-language learning. Minister Kersna told the Riigikogu that the education system will be completely Estonian by 2035 at the latest. At the same time, one of our colleagues, member of the Riigikogu Oudekki Loone, who is part of the government district, has publicly said that the Centre Party will certainly not allow Russian-speaking schools to be transferred to the Estonian language of instruction and that a working group in the ministry will do so is of no importance. According to him, the Centre Party's plan is to block the amendment of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act in such a way that there is no transition to Estonian-language education. If it were the opinion of only one member of the Riigikogu, it would be, but the same has been confirmed by Jaak Aab, who is now the Minister of State Administration, led by the delegation of the Centre Party during the coalition negotiations. Jaak Aab has likewise publicly confirmed that Russian-speaking schools remain and that the coalition agreement is actually talking not about the transition to Estonian-language education, but about increasing the volume of Estonian-language learning in Russian-speaking schools. To clarify the situation where one side of the government talks about one and the other, we were forced to ask the Prime Minister to come and explain to the Riigikogu how to understand point 5.2 of the Government's Action Programme approved by the Government of the Republic by Order No 83 of 23 February 2021, which states that we will launch an action plan for education in Estonian to give everyone an equal opportunity to participate in social and professional life and to continue their studies at the next level of education and to allocate the necessary funding to kindergartens and schools, which will enable the teaching process to be organised in Estonian. The main question then is: either increasing the volume of Estonian language learning, as the representatives of the Centre Party claim, or Estonian-language learning, as the representatives of the Reform Party claim. There are more questions. I'm not going to read them here. I think all these questions are important. Parents and schools probably want an answer today, not to what one party or another thinks or thinks, but to what their country intends to do. What about schools with Russian language? Is there a transition to Estonian-language education or is it not being carried out? And let it be said that according to the information available to me, this answer is rather yes, dealt with. Our request is for the Prime Minister to confirm it or reject it and answer the questions to be specified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U268	Now I would like Prime Minister Kaja Kallas to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U269	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Good heirs! I'll start with questions and answers right now. Question: "How to understand point 5.2 "Let's move to an Estonian-language education agenda to give everyone an equal opportunity to participate in social and professional life and continue their studies at the next level of education, confirmed by Order No 83 of the Government of the Republic of Estonia of 23 February 2021. We allocate the necessary funding to kindergartens and schools, which enables the study process to be organised in Estonian, ensuring high-quality education. " What is it about, the transition to education in Estonian or the increase in the learning volume of Estonian in Russian schools? " This action plan must be understood exactly as it says. We will launch an action plan for education in Estonian to give everyone an equal opportunity to participate in social and professional life and continue their studies at the next level of education. The government also draws on the Estonian language development plan, which was discussed in the Riigikogu last week, 2021-2035, which states the following objective: "Estonian school education has largely gone into Estonian-language school education, i.e. teaching in schools and kindergartens funded by the state and local authorities takes place in Estonian. Estonian-language school education guarantees the integration of children and young people into the Estonian cultural and value area and gives everyone an equal opportunity to participate in social and professional life and to continue their studies at the next level of education. " In order to achieve this goal, a working group on the Estonian Action Plan on Education has been convened in April 2021; the deadline for completing the action plan is November this year. As a result of the work, the activities described will be able to move towards a high-quality Estonian-language education system. The second question: "Is the task of the Ministry of Education and Research, as set out in the programme of action, to draw up an action plan for education in Estonian to prepare for the transition to education in Estonian by your government? "An answer: yes, 2035 at the latest. Thirdly, "The first step in implementing section 5.2 of the Government's Action Plan is to draw up an action plan within the Ministry of Education. Has the government also discussed and decided on what future activities will be after the Ministry of Education has completed its work programme in November 2021? For example, has it been agreed that the relevant action plan will be adopted as a government decision or submitted to the Riigikogu for approval? " The Riigikogu has been involved in the drafting of the development plan in Estonian from 2021 to 2035, which is actually one of the inputs in the preparation of this action plan. Nevertheless, I support the approach of the Ministry of Education and Research, which is open to discuss the action plan drawn up in the Riigikogu as well as in the general public and interest groups. It is important that the broadest possible community of language learning representatives, including umbrella organisations, networks, researchers, parents and other relevant people, is involved in the preparation of this action plan. Fourthly: "Does the government intend to change the provisions of subsection 20 (2) of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act so that the language of instruction in primary school can no longer be changed by the city or rural municipality council? "The Ministry of Education and Research is currently preparing this action plan and at such an early stage there is no plan to amend the basic school and upper secondary school law. All necessary legislative changes will be revealed in the course of the action plan if it is clear what concrete steps need to be taken. Then it is also clear whether the law needs to be amended and, if so, how.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U270	Raimond Kaljulaid would like to be specified. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U271	Thank you very much, Prime Minister, for your very clear and understandable answers. Just in case, I'm gonna ask you if it's yes or no. Is government policy that Estonia will mostly switch to Estonian-language education by 2035 at the latest? And secondly, how is it possible that some of your government's ministers and your coalition partner will understand this completely the opposite? Or do they understand what they've signed, but for some reason, they're telling a different story in public?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U272	Thank you. You have to ask them that question, but it seems to me that in fact this understanding is generally clear that education comes mainly in Estonian. A great deal of research has been done on this, and 96% of Estonians have already done so, but 81% of representatives of other nationalities have also thought that Estonian-language education could start in kindergarten or primary school. Actually, it's been getting better all along. Understandably, you know very well yourself that the electorate is very different. But it seems to me that sometimes there's fear of some sort of formulation. Why is this date important? I think it is because I cannot be intimidated that it happens overnight, that it will happen tomorrow, that all Russian schools will be shut down. No, they won't. In fact, this happens gradually, calmly, starting with kindergartens and in such a way that communities are not hurt during this process, so that everyone is on board and realise that it actually helps, as this action plan says, people to participate equally in social and professional life and continue their studies at the next level of education. It's actually important. When we look at surveys, we see that people who do not speak Estonian in Estonia are inevitably in a worse position both in the labour market and in education. And it shouldn't be that way. Everyone should have a level playing field.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U273	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U274	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! I'm trying to fit two questions. First of all, this necessary change, which has been postponed for a very long time, has created many contradictions. How do you see that the coalition partner actually gives the opposite messages on purpose compared to what has been agreed? And the second question is that such a change will undoubtedly mean additional resources to make this transition to the Estonian-language system a good way to support both teachers and students, educational materials. Is the budget planned or planned for the successful implementation of this change?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U275	Thank you, very good questions! First, additional resources. I absolutely agree with you that it needs additional resources. In order to take these steps, methodologies are needed, teachers are needed, and gradually this money must be found in order not to delay everything. But first, the action plan should be clear. The possible amounts that are also needed should then also be identified. And then the third step is how to find this funding behind it. I agree with that. Coming to the first question, I naturally realize that very many parents also have fears about it. If I was in Belgium and my child had to go to a French kindergarten and school exactly the same way, there would have been an Estonian version, I would have had no doubt that it would have been easier for him there. But if you are either in a French environment or in an Estonian environment, it is actually good if you have studied that language since you were a child. Because children are like sponges, they suck in a foreign language very easily; for them, language learning is very easy. But I understand that there are a lot of fears in this regard and maybe these fears are addressed by our coalition partner. However, the fears of these people must not be rejected in any way, but must be dealt with in such a way that the community is involved.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U276	When answering questions, we have an opportunity to ask a question. Don't apologize, Eduard Odines fills that gap.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U277	Thank you. And thank you, Prime Minister, for very laconic but very clear answers. Yes, you are looking at the percentages that say that 81% are in favour of education in Estonian from kindergarten and primary school. But an inquiry is about the school, and only 17% of the school is supported in Estonian. The vast majority would still like to learn in such a way that some subjects are in Estonian and there is more immersion, etc., so that the Russian language can still be preserved in some way and studied as a native language. You mentioned the development plan for the Estonian language in your responses, which really speaks about the transition to education in Estonian, but you did not mention the development plan for education that is being discussed in our hall this Wednesday. The development plan for education until 2035 does not mention the transition to education in Estonian. How do you explain this inconsistency in important national development plans?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U278	Thank you. I will answer the first question first. In my opinion, this is precisely the problem that if these children do not speak good Estonian when they are young, they will not be able to study all the difficult subjects, such as chemistry and physics, in Estonian at school. They don't speak that language. And clearly that is why the idea is that the transition, or the teaching in Estonian, starts in kindergarten, so that we do not have children who do not speak Estonian well enough. After all, no one takes away the language from anyone and that you have a different cultural background, and no one takes away it. I think that opportunities to learn Russian in depth and culture will remain. In this sense, I do not think that fear should be. If this fear is, it must be alleviated, but I still think it is important to bear in mind that almost a million people speak Estonian in the world, while 173 million people speak Russian. There is no danger that the Russian language will disappear or that the language will be in danger in any way, while the Estonian language cannot be said that way. We must make a great deal of effort to keep the Estonian language alive. But as far as the educational development plan and the Estonian language development plan and contradiction are concerned, I cannot explain it in any other way than that maybe different people have been working with them. But I don't have an education development plan right now. I think it would be good if the wording were the same, but maybe there are some nuances. The Minister of Education and Research will certainly be able to specify why these plans have been developed in isolation at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U279	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U280	Thank you very much. Good chairman of the sitting! Prime Minister! I will continue on the subject initiated by my Socialist colleagues. Indeed, there is a certain amount of money in the Estonian language development plan, and you also indicated that it should be considered that such funding should be guaranteed. At the moment, an average of EUR 15 to 16 million is planned to be allocated each year until 2035. My question is that the Government of the Republic approved the country's budgetary strategy freshly. Did you take into account, or did you not take into account, the amounts set out in the development plans, including the education development plan? And if you didn't take them into account, what's the point of writing them into the development plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U281	Thank you. Firstly, this development plan had not been adopted at that time. Secondly, as I said, with the Estonian-language education agenda, we will come out in November. With regard to the action plan, we will discuss what steps are needed and how much money they will require. From now on, we can take these steps into account and, as I said, also financially.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U282	Good Prime Minister, there are no more questions for you. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. We have exhausted the third item. Let's move on... Really? Mr Odines, next time, please, a little faster.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U283	I'm sorry about the slow reaction!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U284	It's late, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U285	Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, thank you to the Prime Minister. Indeed, the answers were clear. And at least the position of the Reform Party is understandable to us: the transition will begin as soon as the working group completes its work, and the transition will end in 2035 and then we will mostly have all children studying in Estonian. Unfortunately, we did not get the answer to why the coalition partner, who signed a coalition agreement of the same quality as the Reform Party, continues to tell us a different story. And the fact that the two coalition parties are talking very different stories makes this promise, its idea less serious, not at all serious. After all, both parties will have to start implementing this idea soon, but if one speaks a story and the other talks another, it is quite difficult to believe that this idea, even under the very powerful Minister of Education, will somehow come true. On the other hand, I remain concerned about the fact that the development plan for education, which should deal with all this topic, does not tell us anything about the same goal as the Prime Minister said: that the transition to education in Estonian will begin. The educational development plan only tells us that Estonian language learning will be improved, improved and enhanced. That is the second argument, at least in my opinion, and I believe that many colleagues also believe that the clear objective stated by the Prime Minister is not very serious. Because according to the development plans we draw up a budget, according to the development plans we draw up an activity-based budget, according to the development plans we plan all activities. If the most important development plan, the education development plan, does not talk about it, it is difficult to believe that this is a serious promise and a serious desire. Of course, we expected the Prime Minister to give more attention to the issue of how the transition to education in Estonian still stays with the native language of the students in response to this question. That is the greatest fear that the Prime Minister has recognised. It is feared that children will be deprived of their education in their mother tongue, that Russian language and culture will remain in the status of a foreign language and a foreign culture in Estonia. This is what we already see in schools with Estonian language of instruction, where children whose home language is Russian learn Russian as a foreign language, B as a foreign language from the fourth and fifth grade. I think this is an important issue that the Prime Minister should deal with in the same way, in addition to the message that we are going to switch to Estonian-language education. He should tell the people of Estonia that these models will be found, they will be found, they will find these teachers and they will find the means to learn not only Estonian but also native language and Russian culture. It is understandable that we cannot provide everyone, some 200 representatives of the people here in Estonia, with the education of their mother tongue and culture, but we are talking about the largest ethnic group, the Russian-speaking ethnic group, and they should receive such a message. I believe that this is not our last conversation with the Prime Minister on this subject, and perhaps for the next time the Prime Minister will think a little more about the fact that the national development plans should go hand in hand and the fears, wishes and hopes of all Estonian residents and different groups of society should be taken into account. Thank you again and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U286	The members of the Riigikogu have no more wishes for words. The Prime Minister asks for the floor again. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U287	Thank you. I would like to emphasise once again that if we are planning to come up with an action plan in November, the Ministry of Education and Research will also be working on looking at these different models. Like I said, everyone should be on board and nobody should feel like they're being taken away or forced into something. I always say that the language can be learned through love: you get something because you actually like it, that you want to learn it, not that you have to do it somehow by force. I'm just saying from experience that while we were at school, for us Russian was like a coercion, we learned it, grades were five, everyone knew Pushkin's poetry by heart, but we didn't know how to talk, because we had, like, a protest against that language. And we certainly don't want that. On the contrary, we want these children to understand that the Estonian language actually adds much to live in Estonia. But these concerns are certainly what we are dealing with and trying to reduce these fears just to get these people to come along. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U288	We have successfully concluded the negotiations and also this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U289	We will move on to the fourth item on the agenda, which is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Reuben Kaalepi and Kert Kingo, on the underfunding of humanities and national sciences. Ruuben Kaalep gets the word. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U290	Honourable Riigikogu! Dear Minister for Education and Science, I was very pleased that the Prime Minister, in his recent conclusion, said that Estonian can be learned through love. After all, love for the Estonian language is the same as love that binds us to our cultural heritage, to our national values, to everything that can survive only in Estonia and for which this country has been created to survive. One of the drivers of this inquiry is the public address of humanitarian scientists and organisations in 2020, where there is concern about the continuity of Estonian science in the field, the fundamental and applied research on Estonia and, more generally, the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. It is based on the fact that the general under-funding of Estonian science and the formal orientation of funding policy towards international excellence and technological innovation exclude the broad-based and sectoral diversity of Estonian science, the continuation of studies related to Estonia, the continuity of the Estonian language and culture of applied research, and thus the fundamentals of the Estonian state. One example of underfunding is the Estonian Literary Museum and the Estonian Folklore Archives. For the current five years, researchers at the Literary Museum did not receive funding for any major project. The researchers' salary depends on base money, which in turn depends on the number of publications with a higher category and the size of the project amounts. Outside this, in the current situation, only the status quo can be preserved. As a result, several folklore scientists have expressed concern that Estonian folklore science is dying out, being replaced by the worldwide folklore in English. In recent years, in addition to research projects, tools have been cut off to produce monumental works such as "Old Harp" and "Estonian Fairy tales" of major Estonian culture. The Estonian Folklore Archives, one of the most important places to preserve Estonian memory, cannot be further developed as the conditions of storage of these collections, the working conditions of scientists and other staff are below the level of the 21st century. Another very important example of underfunding humanities is the closure of the University of Tartu Centre for Arts this year. The direct cause was the lack of money. Although the staff of the Centre of Arts have clearly done their work very well and with dedication, the situation was that the financial situation of the university did not allow the cultural academy and the Centre of Arts in Viljandi to be maintained at the same time. On this basis, we have asked the Minister six questions to which we would like substantive answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U291	These substantive answers must be provided by the Minister of Education and Science, Liina Kersna. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U292	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! First of all, thank you for raising this important issue. I can assure you that the welfare of humanities and national sciences is also very important to me. However, I would point out that your questions are based on information that is already ageing today and that the concerns highlighted in the article you referred to have begun to resolve. The rumors of the death of Estonian humanitarianism have been greatly exaggerated. On the contrary, the share of funding for social sciences and humanities in Estonia is higher than in Europe on average compared to our European partners. Estonia is one of the few countries that has raised public funding for R &amp; D and innovation to 1% of GDP. And the humanities, including the national sciences, will share this rise equally with everyone else. The volume of basic R &amp; D funding has increased 2.5 times over the last five years. All research institutions will take part in this increase. National science institutions will receive an additional 5%, which is 2.3 million euros this year, or nearly three times more than five years ago, for example. Now I will answer your questions. Firstly, "What additional financial resources does the Ministry provide for the improvement of the humanities and national sciences situation in the coming years? " In recent years, the Ministry of Education and Research has increased R &amp; D funding through several instruments. We have increased basic funding, including support for national sciences, provided funds to support the salaries of junior researchers, increased the volume of research programmes dealing with Estonian language and culture and increased the operating support of the Estonian Literary Museum. All of this has changed the situation considerably compared to the time of writing the article you referred to. The second question: "Have you seen the public address of humanitarian scientists sent in 2020 and what you intend to do to address the issues raised in the appeal? " I have met this article, which is soon to be one and a half years old. The situation has changed and it was already before the question was made. Research funding from the state budget has taken into account 1% of GDP in 2021 and, of course, humanitarianity will also be a part of it, both in general terms and through specific measures specifically targeted at these areas. In terms of growth, responsibility is certainly cross-cutting, but it is also the responsibility of the state and certainly the responsibility of the authorities. The R &amp; D Organisation Act is currently being updated, which will also review the criteria for future operating grants to existing basic funding institutions, and can do something better in the light of the specificities of the humanitarian field. The third question: "How do you explain the situation that the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and the fundamental foundations of the Estonian state are at risk, according to so many renowned intellectuals and respected organisations? " It is, of course, a matter of concern when such a feeling is left. However, I do not agree with this argument because the Constitution and the fundamental principles of the Estonian state are not so easy to destabilise. Fourth: "What additional funds does the Ministry provide for the Estonian Literary Museum in addition to covering current expenditure and base money depending on publications? " The Estonian Literary Museum has two types of operating grants in the meaning of the source, the use of which can be determined entirely by the institution itself. There is basic funding on a general basis and, in addition, the Ministry of Education and Research is an operating grant to the literary museum as a managed state institution. In terms of size, these two sources are almost equal in size and cover the bulk of the research and development activities of the institution and the tasks related to archives. In 2021, the Ministry of Education and Research added EUR 103000 to the current operating grant budget. And in 2021, the group grant of the Estonian Research Council, which is focused on the research of regilaul, was launched, with an annual volume of nearly one-quarter million euros. The statement in the introduction to the inquiry that the Estonian Literary Museum and its structural unit The Estonian Folklore Archives have not received any funding for their project is therefore irrelevant. There is one. Question 5: "What grants does the Ministry provide for the continuation of monumental works "The Old Harp" and "Estonian Fairy tales"? " Research and development institutions in Estonia are autonomous. The Ministry does not even manage the activities of the state R &amp; D institutions with such detail. The form in which the institution goes on with these activities is up to the institution. The increase in basic financing at the Estonian Literary Museum and the increase in operating support provide the institution with an opportunity to decide how and what activities are financed. And that's the decision of the board of directors. Sixth: How do you intend to avoid in the future situations where university institutions need to be closed in the event of a lack of financial resources? " We know that higher education in general is currently underfunded. According to different estimates, there is a shortage of €30.70 million in higher education. But the university decides its own structural units. § 38 of the Constitution provides that universities and research institutions are autonomous within the limits prescribed by law. The Ministry of Education and Research does not prescribe to universities how they organise the work of their structural units. However, I admit that there is a lack of money in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U293	And questions will be answered by Jaak White. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U294	Thank you. Dear Minister, Let me ask you a little bit more. As you mentioned, at the end of last year, a working group was set up in HTM to organise the R &amp; D organisation law as a whole and to bring it into line with the changed expectations. This bill should be in the Riigikogu in the second half of next year. And one of the objectives of this amendment to the law should be to ensure continuity in the funding of national sciences according to the initial problem. I recall it was during the previous government. I have the following questions. First of all, is this problem statement still in force? And secondly, if, and as we know, we have a research agreement based on this percentage, namely 1% of GDP, how is the R &amp; D Organisation Act intended to ensure continuity in the financing of national sciences? Is it logical to expect a percentage of this percentage to be set?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U295	Thank you. Yeah, that's the same goal. We are currently working on the preparation of this draft and meeting with various interest groups to get the wording right. However, as you know very well, the R &amp; D, innovation and entrepreneurship development plan discussed in the Riigikogu also highlights the focus areas. I am very pleased that a vibrant Estonian society, language and cultural space also came into these areas of focus. We have this set out in the development plan, and that means that we, as a country, must definitely contribute to it. And that's what's extremely important.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U296	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U297	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. Your party fought quite vigorously against the amendment of the Aliens Act, which was presented by the previous coalition, and which was also a point in the fact that Estonian taxpayers' money is not scattered to foreign students in a wide range. As far as I am concerned, they receive needs-based support of between €1.4 million and €1.5 million, plus 26 English-language curricula that are accepted by students on the university's page and yet have an unknown amount of scholarships. You were terribly opposed so that you couldn't give foreign scholarships with a broad curve. Don't you see the imbalance here? You said with your gloomy face that a project in that archive has received support. Shouldn't the national sciences be more preferred?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U298	Thank you. I continue to share the satisfaction that we have focus areas in TAIE and among them are a vibrant Estonian society, language and cultural space. It was the result of quite a lot of work to get it there as a separate focus area, and this is something that we can all be proud of, and it also gives us the assurance that this area will be dealt with consistently. With regard to the needs-based support of students from third countries, a draft on this subject is being prepared in the Ministry so that it is not necessary to pay the needs-based support to students from third countries. I hope that we will get to the government with this bill before autumn, so if you meet again in the autumn, it may be in the Riigikogu proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U299	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U300	Thank you, Mr President. Minister! You answered the questions raised in this inquiry with a very generalisation and gave such vague answers. But you stressed that this inquiry was based on outdated information, saying that these problems had begun to be resolved. Therefore, please specify how these issues are now being resolved. What are these concrete solutions then?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U301	Thank you. I should also like to congratulate the previous government, which, during its management, decided that 1% of GDP would be devoted to R &amp; D. This brought considerable money to the research field, and this additional money has also become part of the humanitarian field.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U302	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U303	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. It was very good to hear you say that basic funding was being reviewed. This is very welcome. But I'm going to ask you a little bit more than humanitarian. The funding of researchers is known to depend on so-called "foreign" or "foreign" articles. Could it be that, in the near future, the need for society, rather than the articles published somewhere, maybe nobody needs it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U304	Thank you. It's an interesting theme setting. I have also taken part in discussions on this subject, where it has also been said that there are very different approaches to obtaining a doctorate from different countries. We read very accurately the number of articles appearing and it is important to obtain a doctorate. There are countries where there is more value for contributing to the field and perhaps also for teaching. These systems are different. I think this is definitely the point of discussion if we want more people with doctorates in our society. After all, we are also doing a doctoral reform, and it should definitely go along with a discussion in which cases we say in Estonia that this person deserves a doctoral degree, and he also gets it, either it's just scientific articles or we count on something more. And actually, with the doctoral reform, we are moving in the direction that we take into account the broader experience in the field.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U305	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U306	Minister, please correct me if I misunderstood you when you answered the question concerning the continuation of our great national memory project, the 'Old Karle'. I recall that this is still a project that dates back over a century, which was started by Jakob Hurt in its time. In this regard, the Literary Museum is an autonomous body that decides how to use its money, and you, as if by the ministry, have given them every opportunity. If they say that they do not have the means to continue this project, then they are guilty that they have not set their priorities correctly? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U307	Thank you for your question. When I was preparing for this question, I also studied it at the Literary Museum, and I'm sure it's their priority, they're going to continue it. But since they also received this science grant now and there are few people there, they said that dealing with few people in parallel with two big things might not be quick. But it's definitely important to them, and they want to keep doing this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U308	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U309	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, Minister, for these answers. In the context of the European Union's structural instruments, the previous government approved special allocations for the development of humanities in the field of language and culture. The new government, which approved these contributions from the previous government to the European Union, did the same. According to the latest information, however, the entire humanities programme has retreated to a clever area of specialisation, which is quite far from the original objective. In addition, there is EUR 3 million left over for nine years, which is obviously a very small amount. What is your knowledge, as the minister responsible for the fields of science that have come from this programme of humanities and the study of language and culture?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U310	Thank you. Certainly, one of the important areas in the next budget period is the contribution to our language and language technology. As we spoke here in the context of the Estonian language development plan, language technology, language technology development and research, it is essential to contribute. So this is definitely one of those areas. I do not know that this amount has been reduced. I don't think it's been done.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U311	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U312	Minister, what other educational establishments are planned to be closed as a result of the rapid cuts?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U313	Thank you. There have really been discussions where we can stick together. From next year, the Ministry of Education and Research will have to save 6.4 million of its fixed costs in addition to the cut in interest education, which we will be able to talk about further. But no establishment will be shut down under this cut.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U314	Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U315	Thank you for these explanations. I fully agree that it is a positive news for scientists that 1% of GDP will go into research money. I also agree that basic funding will increase, and this will also give great impetus to the humanities and, in particular, to the national sciences, because 5% of this total basic funding will in any case go to the national sciences. In addition, we also have a national science program. However, in the general case of basic financing, the problem is that it is actually competitive. This is not the base because it takes into account publications, projects, protected doctoral thesis. This will probably put research institutions in a very difficult position, and precisely those dealing with humanities. You said there was going to be a rethink of the so-called "model" of basic funding. Can you tell me whether this could take into account the concern that, for example, archives and the study of Estonian language and culture would be sufficiently guaranteed through permanent support?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U316	Thank you very much for this question. That's exactly what this is about.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U317	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U318	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You said here that the funding for science has increased. And we know that science is very important to us, and it is important to say how, in the perspective of the future, to increase its funding at all. We have no doubt about that. But you still didn't answer the question, what are these concrete solutions, how do you find the money for it? How, then, will this increase finally take place?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U319	Thank you for your question. As we all know, only recently did we get good news that the country's gross domestic product is increasing. And we have agreed socially that we will contribute 1% of gross domestic product to research and development. Just as we have agreed that at least 2% of gross domestic product will contribute to defence costs. This means that there will be more money for R &amp; D. We have also agreed on a national budgetary strategy that 1% of gross domestic product will go to R &amp; D in the next four years. Thank you also to the previous government that reached this agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U320	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U321	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. As you know, we already have a large amount of both doctoral and master's studies in English at universities. Do you think the proportion between Estonian and English is in place? And are there any plans when university studies could go back to more Estonian so that both Estonian culture and language could be valued through it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U322	Thank you. This really is a very serious issue. When I had a meeting with the Estonian Language Council, one of the topics we discussed was that universities tend to have a working language in some areas already in English. That's the thing we don't want to go with. It needs to be responded to. But in fact, the fact that we have more and more English-language study programmes is, on the one hand, a side effect of free higher education, because the university sees that it is possible to earn from them. And the number of these curricula has really increased. This brings us back to this subject, to which I also referred in the answers, that we really know that there is a lack of money in higher education, according to various estimates, EUR 30.7/70 million. Universities have found different solutions to alleviate money shortages. But I am pleased that when the Riigikogu reconvenes in the autumn, you have decided to discuss funding higher education as a key national issue. I believe that there will certainly be a debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U323	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U324	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Listening to your answers, I remember the Soviet term "better than last year," but last year it was zero. We all understand that there has been additional funding for certain things and that the economy is growing, etc., but in reality, the country still has the means to direct national sciences. And if our Polish friends have now announced a major campaign to increase the pride of the Poles in their culture and country through culture, we will also be able to announce all kinds of literary competitions, competitions, folklore collection competitions, etc. Are there any plans for such targeted funding?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U325	Thank you. Different competitions, poetry and other literary competitions, are also taking place today. And that's what's really important. In fact, if you look at the proficiency of Estonian, if you look at the results of the state examination of Estonian, what do we see? We can see that with very good results there are more people who pass the state examination of Estonian. Their numbers are increasing. But we also see that the average grade is decreasing and the proportion of those who pass a very low level of the state examination of the Estonian language is slowly increasing. This is certainly an area that we need to deal with systematically.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U326	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U327	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, You referred here to the previous question that the withdrawal of the Estonian language in higher education is an important incentive for free higher education, which has forced universities to open more English-language curricula. Can we read that we should give up free higher education?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U328	Thank you for your question. These are the debates that we have to hold in society very honestly and openly. There is a huge lack of money in higher education, and we do not want our higher education levels to fall. But the higher education institutions are really saying today, in a very worrying tone, that if there is no extra money, our level of higher education will fall. No one wants it on their conscience, we need to find solutions. Whether this solution is paid for higher education, whether this solution is partly paid higher education and, if so, to whom, which specialties, or we will find some other funding option and continue with free higher education, these are the issues that we need to discuss and which we must certainly speak very honestly about in this Chamber as well. The Committee on Culture has worked on this, held hearings, and I hope that in the autumn we will be able to discuss these issues. For example, I am going back to the University of Tartu on Friday this week to discuss different options for getting more money into higher education. So this is an important subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U329	Good Minister, there are no more questions for you. Thank you! I open negotiations, the first word is Reuben Kaalep.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U330	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the substantive debate. I believe that the concerns expressed by the Minister about the state of our humanities and national sciences are sincere, but a large part of the answers to the very specific questions raised in the inquiry remained quite general. I'll go over them quickly. To the first question, concerning additional financial resources, we basically received the answer that the situation has become much more positive in one year, that there is more resources and that there is no problem, or that it is disappearing from the horizon. To the second question, concerning the public appeal of humanitarian scientists last year, we also received the answer that the situation has now changed, that these problems and the concerns raised there are no longer relevant. And to the third question, how so many very respected people, intellectuals and honorable organisations find that the situation is in fact so far as the fundamentals and constitutional values of our country are at risk, the Minister replied very resolutely that yes, this situation is a matter of concern, but he absolutely does not agree with the position of its intellectuals. On the fourth question, which specifically concerned additional financial resources for the Literary Museum, we indeed received two additional sources of funding in response, which is, of course, a very positive development. The personal question is whether it is enough to solve all these problems. However, on the fifth question, there is some concern that the Minister replied that the use of all these funds was entirely up to the authority's own management. I believe that, in order to ensure the continuity of our national sciences, there is still a need for universal cooperation, both at national level and between specific institutions, which means exchanging information on both sides and sharing guidelines. The sixth question, once again, was a very serious concern about how to prevent university institutions from being shut down in the future. We received an answer which, of course, did not give us much hope that we have very underfunded higher education. We are already debating cuts. Although the Minister also mentioned that no establishments would be closed down. Let us consider this to be a promise from the Minister. To sum up the whole subject, I want to remember what the national sciences are. National sciences are the fields of research that can be developed only in Estonia. They are directly linked to our national identity, to the foundations of our country and nation. And the great concern in this appeal of humanitarian scientists sent last year was that, in our era, when the world is moving very fast towards globalisation, there is a huge internationalisation. And this puts our Estonian-centred values and research areas at risk, because excessive internationalism inevitably leads to the dissolution of our identity in this globalising world. Yes, of course we must be aware of Estonian culture as part of world culture and, through it, see universal ethnic and ethnic universality, but it is thanks to this that we must give our national culture deep value. However, we must agree with many humanitarian scientists and their dignified organisations that we, as a country and a nation, may be losing that picture before our eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U331	There's no more words. I'm closing the negotiations. Is there something the Minister would like to say? No, I don't. Then we are done dealing with this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U332	The fifth item is the inquiry by Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubitsa and Helir-Valdor Seeder, members of the Riigikogu, about the huge cut in the support for interest education. Please, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U333	Good Riigikogu! Good Minister, Minister! This question came about because we have a serious problem. In fact, the members of the Committee on Culture are perfectly aware that we are experiencing a very serious crisis with teachers' secondary growth outside. We really need to address this issue in substance. And it is well known that, in fact, part of this crisis is definitely the issue of wages, the issue of pay. It is also clear that if the government decides to resolve this concern a little, i.e. as we found out about a month and a half ago, the salary will increase by 3%, it will be a positive step, but it will not be big enough to solve this problem. The biggest concern is that if we go to solve one problem, we will create another problem instead. Perhaps in essence, if we give a solution in one place with one hand, which still does not solve this problem very well, then we will immediately take something away from another place. I'm talking about the fact that you can't, you can't afford to be opposed when it comes to education. However, we say that recreational education is not so important, and we take away 7 million from it, and we put it somewhere else, where more is needed. So now I'm going to introduce what's the content of our questioning. We have made an inquiry into the huge cut in the support for recreational education. I would remind you that in 2019 before the Riigikogu elections, the Reform Party promised to organise a better education of interest. The Reform Party's electoral programme gave us the opportunity to expand the world view and knowledge of children and young people, develop their skills and creativity, and keep them away from activities that harm their health and their future. [---] We consider it necessary to establish at least one whole-day school in each region, thereby creating an opportunity for children to pursue an interest education alongside their studies." Today, the Reform Party-led government has prepared the RES for the next few years and announced that next year Estonia will expect a 7 million euros reduction in interest education support. This is not a marginal cut, but a halving of the support for recreational education. This cut affects families with children in particular, and families with children in particular. Selme to meet the expectations of families with these children and of very many children themselves, the Reform Party and the Centre Party have started to drastically reduce the support for interest education. The Reform Party has justified the reduction in support for recreational education by the need to raise the salaries of teachers in general education schools. Such justification is particularly hypocritical for a number of reasons. Firstly, it was the Reform Party that promised to raise the salaries of teachers in hobby schools. Again, I quote: "We would like to achieve, in cooperation with the providers and municipalities of recreational education, that the remuneration of teachers in hobby schools (music, art and sports schools) is in line with the salaries of teachers in general education schools. " The Reform Party noted this in its election program. What else can we read out of it? In addition, the Reform Party promised to cut red tape and cut the number of public authorities and reduce the number of public officials. In fulfilling these promises, even partially, the state would be able to raise the salaries of teachers in general education schools without reducing the support for recreational education. In fact, the draft titled "The implementation of the state reform" is entirely on the table of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and could actually be implemented at coalition level, at least to review where there are possible points of reduction. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U334	Unfortunately, this cannot be achieved. Five minutes to introduce an inquiry.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U335	Okay, I'll be done in a minute. Unfortunately, these promises have remained promises and, on the other hand, the Reform Party has started to cut the support for recreational education. This cut-off decision has also been strongly criticised by representative organisations in the youth field. I very much hope that the Minister will be familiar with and take into account the various opinions. Now there are six questions on our side. Thank you for the opportunity to present them. We are counting on the Minister's very substantive answers. And even more, we very much hope to be assured that the government will not make cuts on the expense of recreational education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U336	Liina Kersna, Minister of Education and Science, will answer the questions. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U337	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good heirs! I feel like I'm running out of time to answer questions. But I hope we can continue, both your own introduction and I the information I've obtained to answer you. I would like to introduce you to the fact that, yes, of course, I have been familiar with all the appeals and have also met the umbrella organisations of interest education. It was a very difficult meeting, we talked for two hours, and we are now trying to move forward smarter and find solutions to other bottlenecks in the education of interest, in addition to the lack of money. But I'll start by answering. "Why has the Reform Party, contrary to its electoral promises, started to cut the support for interest education and thus worsen the situation of families with children? "The 2019 election programme of the Reform Party provided for ensuring the availability of a wide range of recreational education and a greater link with formal education. The cut-off decision that the Government of the Republic had to make regarding the education and activity of interest was a difficult decision and was not made lightly. This really resulted in a painful reaction, which is understandable. And we certainly do not want this decision to worsen the situation of families with children. In my opinion, as well as the umbrella organisations, it was said that this money, EUR 7.24 million, could go first and foremost to ensure availability. The second question: "Do you consider it basically right to start further reducing access to recreational education next year in a situation where children's general education and education of interest has been hampered by a pandemic? " First of all, I do not believe that we are actually losing access to recreational education as a result of this cut. But providing an education of interest, as well as organising youth work, is the responsibility of the local government. And when we look at the data, we see that the local authorities have really taken the task assigned to them very seriously. Local government expenditure on recreational education and activities is considerable: more than EUR 100 million per year. The allocation of additional public support in 2017 has also reached a total of almost EUR 66 million, to a large extent meeting its target. The aim of the additional national support has been to improve access to and diversity of education and activity at local level. If we now look at the data, an analysis of the results was carried out in the spring of 2017 to 2020 by the Centre for Social Science Applied Research, and this shows that the availability of the service has improved and the service has become more diverse. Availability has shown a growing trend. For example, while in 2017 48% of young people aged 7 to 19 participated in recreational education, in 2019 63% already took part. And local authorities have assessed that this support has really increased accessibility and diversity. Now our great challenge is to keep these young people in the circles they have already come to. This is really very important. The resources of the local government revenue base are on the rise in the coming years, and this money can also be used to organise recreational education and activities in such a way that none of the important activities to date will be interrupted. Local authorities continue to contribute to supporting youth interest education and activities. I have met with many local government leaders and they have assured me that no important activity that has been brought to life with this money will be missed. The existing state support, which remains, will also allow it to continue to be used to ensure availability. I am therefore convinced that a wide range of recreational education and activities will still be available to young people. But if we now look at what the state is doing to support interest education, for example, we have a programme for sharing learning resources such as Class+, where schools have been able to apply for support for cooperation with interest schools, and this has also led to the creation of new areas of interest. It's 2017-2018. 6,7 million contributed in 2005 and was born in cooperation between general education and recreational schools in order to integrate non-formal education into formal education. This year, EUR 1 million will go into this area. Then, for example, a call for proposals for young people, in which both hobbies and open youth centres receive support for projects and funds. EUR 450000 has been allocated for this year. The Estonian Research Council carries out various projects and competitions, which are closely linked to the education of interest. For example, the University of Tartu School of Science receives 800000 euros from the state to deal with young people with more specific interests. Under ProgeTiigri, 593 educational institutions have received EUR 1 and a half million from 2014 to 2020. So the state has done a lot to integrate formal and non-formal education. It also has numerical results, and compared to other OECD countries, our children receive a wide range of education in general education schools. So, third question: "Have you analyzed the impact of this cut-off decision on young people, as well as on teachers of interest, and what are the results of this analysis? " Whether this cut will have adverse effects on young people and teachers involved in recreational education and activities, and how long-term these potential effects are, depends to a large extent on decisions taken by local authorities. What will change as a result of local government decisions for young people and professionals working with them, we will be able to analyse in the coming years. The situation that has arisen as a result of the reduction of national additional support means that cities and municipalities must start to choose more carefully the priorities for which activities and how to use the reduced amount of support to best meet their objective. A solution based on the needs of local young people and best suited to local circumstances can be considered as a good solution. With smart and well-thought-out choices, this decision may not have a negative impact, hampering young people's participation in and meaningful and developing leisure activities. Question 4: Did you also consult representatives of the representative organisations of the interested parties and representatives of local authorities before making the cut-off decision on interest education? " I confess, I didn't have to. Looking back at the time we put together a country's budgetary strategy, I understand that this is not a sufficient reason, but we had to make these decisions very time-critically. But, as I said, I have looked these people in the eye later, listened to their well-founded claims and given their own explanations. And we will meet again on 13 July to continue the debate on how to proceed. Question 5: "Why is the Reform Party opposed to teachers and children in general education schools if it allows teachers in general education schools to raise wages, provided that the area of interest education loses half of the support measure so far? " It was what I said, and that was where the opposite came from. I wouldn't do that today. At the same time, however, it must be acknowledged that the situation in which we were in a country's budgetary strategy or the situation in which I was in was difficult. We know that the pay of teachers did not rise this year, and I was absolutely convinced, I really did not imagine that after COVID time, I would leave the country's budget strategy negotiations, like the previous government, that there would be an increase of zero euros or a level of zero for four years. I really didn't think that was possible. Another very important priority in the budget negotiations in the field of education was the additional resources needed to address learning gaps. Thus, teachers' salaries and learning gaps. And as a minister, I was in a position where all the ministers were, but I am talking about my position right now: no one is getting any money for their additional requests, so look for the money inside your field. And what did I do? I have reviewed what are the tasks that must be carried out by the state, which is the statutory tasks of the state, and which are the tasks assigned to local authorities. Support for recreational education can be found in the Youth Work Act: where possible, the state supports with additional resources. If possible! And we did not take that support to zero euros. We reduced it considerably, really significantly. But that support still remained. At the same time, I knew that in wage negotiations with educators, it was the task of the government and I, as a representative of the government, to stand up for teachers' pay to rise. And while I'm looking at the numbers, I can see that every year local authorities contribute more and more to recreational education. But there is also the question of mental health. In the remaining minutes, I will say that, firstly, when it comes to maintaining children's mental health and education of interest, they are clearly linked. What we have tried to do above all, and what the previous government has tried to do, thank you very much for that! In the context of a pandemic, we have tried to keep the providers of recreational education alive so that they do not have to close their doors because there are restrictions. 2020 supported recreational education, private interest education and recreational education in the first round with 5.7 million, then 4.6 million. The new government and I also launched a call for proposals, with 4.2 million euros of grants being applied for. We've been trying to keep these suppliers alive, and they've survived. I'm glad that if the restrictions are eased, they can all continue to do what they want to do. Learning camps and this measure, which we have targeted at 6 million, are also looking forward to cooperation between general education schools and recreational schools. The idea is to support the mental health of young people, support their motivation for learning and also contribute to the development of learning skills. I understand that the situation is critical. Once again, in the field of education, also in the area of higher education, as we talked about before, there is a lack of money, not money. Unfortunately, I really had to make choices and, of course, I am not happy about these choices, but if I look at the alternatives, I wouldn't have felt any better in front of you than I do right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U338	The questions will be started by Viktoria Ladynskaya-Kubits. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U339	Thank you, Minister. I am very sympathetic when ministers show their humanity to some extent and also acknowledge from the remote that they have made mistakes. In this sense, you are good at saying twice today that you admit that this was not the best solution in fact. But at the same time, I wouldn't just say that about nuances, I'm saying that, as a whole, this is your solution. 7 million is a relatively small amount for the state budget and, at the same time, you are breaking up the system that is currently in operation, and perhaps the consequences that we will be working out after the years. Here's my question. At today's meeting of the Committee on Culture, a coalition ambassador said that we should not expect you to review this decision in the autumn. Is it true, however, that you have already decided that, although we have made a compelling argument, you do not take that into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U340	Thank you. As you probably know, we have a measure of culture agreed in the coalition agreement. This additional request was submitted by the Minister of Culture, this additional request was not granted and this additional request was just EUR 7 million. I believe that we will come back to this funding in the autumn if we can, but I do not dare to make promises and I cannot make promises. Let's see how the budget goes, but in itself my heart would be more satisfied if we could replace this reduced 7 million with funding for culture, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U341	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U342	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, Believe me, it's not a question of faith. If you do not believe that it reduces access to an education of interest, you are wrong. I know it will. I am Chairman of the Board of the Raplamaa Municipalities Association and I have communicated with a lot of local government leaders, and they have all agreed that if this happens, this cannot be continued. I have here a quote from Jürgen Ligi, your good groupmate: it is not nice to complain when the state compensates for the high costs of local governments. Is such an arrogant attitude towards local governments really appropriate, and is the hope that at some point another measure will come, that it will be a cultural border or something else, that it will justify the destruction of the existing system?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U343	Thank you. Once again, it has been said at the level of the law that it is an additional funding and that it will be paid by the State if possible. Secondly, this additional funding had two objectives: diversification and improvement of accessibility. And now, if you look at the data, the diversification component has been decreasing in all of this support. In the first years, 65% of all money went to diversify the circles of interest, and now it has fallen below 40%. Well, I guess that makes sense, and it doesn't make any more circles. On the other hand, the objective of this support is to improve accessibility and it remains very important. And if there was a reference here to families with many children or to families with other reasons where access to recreational education is poor, then my proposal is to use the money that remains, above all, to improve accessibility. We are debating this issue with the Association of Cities and Municipalities, a thematic group has been set up to think about how to make the most of this money, and we are also discussing these issues with associations of interest education.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U344	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U345	Good President! Good minister! You have responded very thoroughly and explained your views. It's hard when you have to cut down and find a place to cut down and take the money away. I rely on the report or report on the fundamentals of cultural policy until 2020. It has been very well stated here how the results of the use of this measure in 2017/2019 show that it had a very positive impact on the diversification and accessibility of recreational education. And if the measure is working well, it would seem strange that the same amount that is being cut off from this well-functioning measure will be granted an additional request to create something new. We don't know how it works. This was primarily a regional policy measure and the city of Viljandi must find EUR 30000, for example, but the municipality of Viljandi must find EUR 140000 extra money. And all that is said about welfare is that go, the local government solves these problems. But, in fact, it is not feasible, not everyone can afford an orchestra or pay compensation for the first day of sick leave. In fact, it is a regional policy measure that is currently disappearing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U346	The model of distribution of this money really clearly preferred non-urban areas and it has also caused, I would say, rubbing between different local authorities, because the rings around the centres have really received more of this support. I know that this money has also been used for massive subsidies: no matter who applies, they receive 20 euros a month. This in itself was not the point of this support. But I wouldn't dare say right now that the remaining money will be distributed on the principle that the local government will simply be split in half. As I said, these discussions on how to use this money are still ongoing. Once again, I believe that this money could be used primarily to ensure availability. If children live away from the centre and have problems with access to education of interest, then such local authorities should receive more support and fewer centres. The centres have now gained significantly less and have not developed any dependence on this support. If the whole city of Viljandi puts nearly 3 million euros in education and 2% or 3% of it is state support, then really Viljandi municipality is considerably higher and there is a dispersal, the children are more scattered and there must be a higher amount. I hope that we will find a model with local authorities that will help to improve accessibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U347	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U348	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! It's nice to hear you're willing to admit a mistake, but it's not just a mistake. This is a mistake that affects hundreds and hundreds of young people across Estonia. And it is scandalous, frankly, that you went to make a budget cut, which really concerns a very large number of young people and children in Estonia, without having discussed it with local authorities in advance. You are standing here in front of the Riigikogu today. Are you ready to look at the Estonian people and make a promise that if, in the new year, a child who was able to go into the circle of interest thanks to this support will be excluded, you will resign, take responsibility?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U349	Thank you for your question. Once again, we have different tasks divided between different levels. The organisation of youth work and recreational education is the responsibility of the local government. It has been supported by the state for the last four years with additional support, but it is still a task for the local government. And my faith is certainly this... I understand that our faith in people is different and that our life experience is also different, but seeing this debate that has emerged in society and in which the chairman of a political party calls the minister a dull one, I believe that the local government leaders understand that supporting an interest education is very important and is expected of them. Just as a respectful attitude is expected.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U350	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U351	Thank you. Minister, you stopped answering your questions with about such a sentence that you feel uncomfortable after making this decision, but you would not feel better about any other decision. And the answers to the questions have also indicated that the government does not intend to restore this cut, even if the economy is developing faster than forecast, if revenue is significantly better than forecast at the time the RES was drawn up. You'd rather spend more money somewhere else. I am also saying that, according to the RES, which the government has confirmed, costs will increase next year and revenue will increase. This is purely a matter of priorities, not of lack of opportunities. As Minister of Education, do you continue to confirm that this is not the priority you will be raising in the autumn?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U352	Thank you. Yes, it can be said that these are priorities. As I said at the beginning, teachers' pay is a priority. We will soon not have teachers in front of the class if we do not deal with the topic of teacher follow-up, part of which is the competitive pay of teachers. And you are very well aware of the large amounts of money actually needed to finance the salaries of teachers. We spoke in response to the previous inquiry that there is a huge shortage of money in higher education: EUR 30.70 million is estimated to be this deficit. For example, this morning I met people in vocational education and we have been in the law for years that vocational education should be financed at least 20% on the basis of the so-called performance indicators. Never has the state complied with this law, no money has been paid to vocational schools on the basis of performance indicators, an amount of EUR 6 million. And I could actually stay and talk about it, not to mention that we are facing the post-pandemic consequences, we have to contribute to leveling out the learning gaps, which is, I hope, not a fixed cost. However, I think that for the next two years, schools will need additional funding to deal with learning gaps. From this year's budget, I have indeed received EUR 6 million in small sums for schools for the autumn period, so that they can provide individual education, group training for children, to support those who have fallen behind because of the pandemic, because of distance learning. So there really is a lot of money missing in the field of education. And there is a clear lack of this in the field of recreational education, for example, the salaries of teachers in recreational education. Looking at how much of this support for recreational education has gone to pay, yes, almost EUR 5 million, namely EUR 4.6 million, has gone to pay. This shows that extra money is also needed for the salaries of teachers in recreational education.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U353	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U354	Thank you. Madam Minister! Looking back at the times, we have not had too many such positive projects in the implementation of regional policy. Very persistently, these things have come. If you think about the time that was before this support for recreational education was introduced, I remember debates where it was very important to ensure regional accessibility. This solution is much more complicated than having to take a trolleybus from one part of town to another. It was hard to figure it out, and I think a fantastic solution was found. We are also talking about differentiation in a situation where one municipality is willing to maintain the horn cream, pay very respectable sickness benefits from the first day, and all that. I'll look at Southeast Estonia. One million will be taken away. What are these regional policy solutions? What does the country offer to replace it? How can this stratification be reduced between municipalities?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U355	Thank you. If I look at how this support has been used, then indeed, it has also been used to compensate for transport. Of this EUR 14 million, a little less than a million has gone to compensate for or organise transport. This, of course, is not very much money for all local authorities, and I would remind you that EUR 7.25 million of this support will remain. The question is how we use the money we have left in order to ensure that we have access to it as much as possible. And I really do not think that, as the municipality of Võru has done, it has simply paid a huge amount of support to everyone who has wished it to have been the purpose of this support.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U356	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U357	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Minister, thank you very much. In fact, it is very sad to hear you say that recreational education and activities are not among the priorities that could be financed if the situation in the Estonian economy improves. And it will. All analysts and other experts say that these cuts are not so justified, there is no need to go on those things that the government has gone to. And it is very sad to hear this, for example, in the light of the story of the Minister for Culture, who says that he will do everything in his power to restore this support to recreational education and activities. Somehow it's his priority, but not your priority. We understand that there are other things that need to be spent on money. But why break the existing model? Why leave those hundreds or I would say, thousands of children without a chance? Because in these remote regions all this support has finally come to them thanks to a decision made four years ago. Why are you doing this, Lina?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U358	Thank you. First of all, I would like to remind you that we have a coalition government, and that coalition government includes the Central Party. I did not hear from any member of the government during the discussions on the country's budget strategy that this is a place where we must not reduce expenditure. No objections! And, in fact, I believe that the Minister of Culture, how I say, rightly hopes that the cultural state will receive the same amount of public funding.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U359	Good minister, more questions... Still is. Mr. Island, next time, please move your fingers a little bit more quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U360	I am sorry, Mr President, I have remained to take notes because the Minister did indeed answer the question. And thank you for enlightening me how my successor was acting as Minister of Culture in the government during this discussion. I think this is a very important clarification. But I would like to point out that you have criticised some of the way in which one or the other municipality has used this money, even though you generally acknowledge that this is an effective measure. And it's hard to argue with that. For this money, 30,000 additional unique children, and this money, as you said yourself, is only a tenth of what local governments are putting. If 30% of children's participation increases for this additional 10%, I do not understand how the Reform Party, which is constantly talking about efficiency, is going to go about this. But that's it. But what is it that you want to convert into the system? You said that this $7.25 million could be better shared. So what is it you want to do to share this money better?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U361	As I have said many times, data show that this state support has been used less and less year after year to diversify. And it's understandable how many of these circles of interest we're going to do, and you need children in these circles of interest. It can be seen that this diversification task is beginning to come to an end, and that is what we have achieved. However, availability is certainly still a problem and I think that this available money could be used above all for the sake of availability. When I met interest education umbrella organisations, it turned out that the Music Schools Association had conducted a survey among its members on how this state support has been used. It was also a very interesting review for me. For example, this money was also used to participate in various festivals and competitions, which is right in itself. Surely there must be a wallet so that very talented young people can participate in different competitions and festivals, but that was not the purpose and purpose of this support. In fact, the Ministry of Education and Youth also has funds from which you can ask for money. At the same time, 90% of the music schools, for example, had benefited to some extent from this additional support, but only 10% of the providers of private interest education. So this support has practically not reached private interest education.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U362	Now we've run out of questions. Thank you. Let's go to the negotiations. First, Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U363	Good chairman of the sitting! Dear Minister, In mid-May, on the initiative of the Raplamaa Municipalities Association, the Mayors, Municipal Elders and Chairman of the Council of the Republic turned to the Government of the Republic for 40 local governments. The claim that this cutback will not reduce access to an education of interest is not a crime. This isn't right. This really is not a question of faith, because availability is clearly decreasing. And that's why the local government leaders made such an appeal. The current local governments' revenue base is the narrowest to cover the tasks imposed on local governments by the legislator. Therefore, municipalities do not have available resources and they will not be able to replace them with other funds, as you have actually noted, Minister. The claim that this is not a great deal of money actually shows ignorance in the question of how the local governments' income base develops. What does such a decision really mean for regional policy, for the municipal budget, but also for our children and for the education of interest? It is families with many children who are hit hardest, and even less financially secure families, but in fact, others will not be left unscathed. It is quite obvious that municipalities cannot continue to finance recreational education on the same scale. I'll give you an example from Raplamaa. In Raplamaa, this means EUR 400000 per year. The most painful hits are Rapla parish, which has a lot of rural areas, and Kehtna parish. Kohila municipality closest to Tallinn really loses the least, but in its entirety it still means that Raplamaa municipalities will lose 1.6 million euros in four years. And to say it's pocket money, it's small money, it just shows that there's no understanding of how local governments are coping. I also refer to Jürgen Ligi, your good groupmate's comment that it is not nice to complain when the state compensates for the high costs of local governments. However, I would point out that if teachers' salaries were to rise, local governments would have to increase this is normal, and so should the salaries and kindergarten teachers' salaries. They go hand in hand. You can't take them separately, because then there's a gap. And we've seen this salmon once. I've seen this rift and I've patched it up as the mayor. Believe me, it's actually complicated! On the one hand, the state is putting it off and the municipalities must somehow be able to catch up. But little of this, in fact, local governments have also provided money for the salaries of school teachers, have differentiated education, made small classes, taught Estonian not only on own resources but also to switch to Estonian-language education. It is not expected that the state will give money. This is all the real contribution of the municipalities. And in that sense, it would be very cynical to say that, even if we have a better economic situation, we are not going to change that situation. This is really embarrassing. And to build an additional ministry building in Tallinn instead of financing children's interest education and regional policy, this is the wrong choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U364	Next, please, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U365	Thank you. I'm asking for five plus three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U366	Please, eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U367	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. I listened very carefully to the Minister's answers, and I even conspected, because the Minister's word has an important weight. And I briefly outlined these answers in this way. The first question: why has the Reform Party, contrary to the electoral promises, started to cut the support for interest education? The minister's answer was: it was a difficult decision. And then all the other information came up to it, but the content I captured was that it was a difficult decision. The second question: do you basically consider it right that, in a situation where we are opening up after a pandemic, access will be further reduced by this cut? In addition, the minister replied: I do not believe that access to recreational education will be reduced as a result of the cut. This is the responsibility of the local authorities, and the additional public support has served its purpose. Actually, it's not! In reply to another question, the Minister himself said that certain local authorities had become dependent on them. The joint visit of local authorities, which was just discussed here by Heiki Hepner, showed very strongly that local authorities do not feel that this objective has been achieved and that the state can clear its hands. The fourth question was whether you had consulted local government representatives before such a cut. The answer was that the interested parties were not consulted before the decision was made. The fifth question was why the government contrasts teachers in general education schools with those in the field of recreational education. In the field of education, a cut is introduced. The minister answered it so he wouldn't do it today. The sixth question concerned children's mental health problems and what steps the government intends to take. In addition, the Minister replied that he thanked the previous government for helping to keep the education of interest alive and then read out what had been done in 2020 to support both municipal and private education. I am also speaking here today as Chairman of a local government council, Chairman of Viljandi City Council, not only as a member of the Riigikogu, and I actually speak as a parent. True, as a parent of four children, I am no longer childish in the sense that all four of my children are engaged in recreational activities, but the youngest still is. I have felt very well through my family and others close to me how important it is to have an education of interest. And in a situation where the state budget is 13 billion, where it will grow next year in the order of at least 500 million, where economic development forecasts are positive rather than negative, there will be a cut in recreational education of 7 million euros! This is obviously an unreasonable decision. And, as Heiki Hepner pointed out here, at the same time we will continue to build office buildings for tens of millions of euros, saying that neither the mental health of children nor the education of interest in school fall within the priorities. There is not enough money for this and the state can continue this support only if it is possible. I can see that this budget and the national budgetary strategy will allow it to continue, if not to increase, as overall revenue increases. Indeed, if not to increase, at least the same amount of support should be continued for the education of interest, but not cut it down, as has now been decided. And I see no reason for it to be contrary to schools of general education and to education of interest when we talk about priorities. Supporting recreational education, the money that goes to local governments, allows local governments to pay better salaries to teachers of recreational education. After all, we know that the salaries of those who work in the community education system, as well as the salaries of teachers in kindergartens, fall behind the salaries of teachers in general education schools. If the Minister of Education comes and says that our priority is the salaries of general education schools, which are higher than the wages of the sectors that we are critically talking about here, that this is justified and that such a confrontation or a different approach in the context of national education policy is justified, then I do not understand it. And I did not quite understand the argument that the objective of this additional national support for improving accessibility has been achieved. And this in a situation where the problems of local authorities after the crisis are also difficult. They are different in different municipalities, but very large in the education system. This concerns both recreational and general education. It is wrong to take away this money in a situation where, as you very rightly said, dependence has arisen: many municipalities have, precisely on the basis of this state's support, improved access to education of interest, doing so in very different ways. Some have compensated for transport costs in order to obtain an education of interest in the centres, while some municipalities have set up a more diverse network of recreational education in close proximity to home. This has led to fixed costs for municipalities and they have also taken into account public participation in the following years. So this national measure has so far been very necessary and justified and has indeed achieved its objective so far. The withdrawal of this money creates a situation where these results are largely collapsing. Local authorities must definitely start to pull together, pool and reduce access to recreational education. My message and my appeal to the Minister for Education is that in the autumn, when the state budget for next year is being drawn up, look at the opportunities they really are. 7 million 13 billion budgets, where the budget grows in hundreds of millions, are only a matter of priorities. Whether or not children and hobbies are a priority for this government, we will see that in the autumn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U368	Thank you. I now request the Riigikogu speech chair Jaak Juske. A little extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U369	No, I'm fine. Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! Reducing support for youth and children's interest education is a very stupid and wrong decision. Today, I asked the Minister whether he would be willing to take political responsibility if it should become clear that in the new year, a child who has been able to go to the circle of interest, thanks to this support, can no longer do so. Instead of answering whether or not to say yes, the minister began to be dimmed, played offended and announced that we had a different life experience. Yes, it is very possible that we have a different life experience, but, Madam Minister, above all, you and I have a different view of the world. Unlike the Minister of Education of the Reform Party, I do not consider it reasonable that we thinn up the already thinned Estonian state. Unlike the Minister of the Reform Party, children and children's education of interest are clearly a priority for me. Unlike the Minister for Education in the Reform Party, I would certainly not start budget cuts if I had to, not for children, but for children to be the last place to cut costs at all. Unlike the Minister of the Reform Party, I believe that when significant cuts are made, they must be negotiated with those affected by these cuts. Unlike the Minister for Education in the Reform Party, I consider it very reasonable that we also provide local authorities with support for education of interest in order to reduce regional inequalities. Finally, unlike the Minister for Education in the Reform Party, I would never make such a foolish decision that I increase teachers' salaries at the expense of children and young people. Oh, my God! Madam Minister, stop this foolish decision, take it back, please! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U370	Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu for a speech chair in Lauri Läänemets.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U371	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. I agree with Jaak Juske, who spoke earlier. Cutting children's expense, saving for the future is a very stupid decision, especially if you have several choices, if it is certainly possible for the government to take money from another place and the Minister for Education and Research in the area of your own responsibility. There has been a lot of talk about this in the media, and these opportunities have been proposed. However, unfortunately, such choices have been made and, unfortunately, we must also spend time on this subject here in Parliament. With regard to the local government and its capacity to finance hobby education and the support given by the state, which is now being reduced by the Reform Party, yes, in the Minister's report it was right that the purpose of this support was to launch some kind of initiative with the support of the state in order for something to happen. But it's important to understand why it was done. After all, this was not done because there are some local governments and some councillors or municipal elders and mayors on the ground who think that there is no need to contribute to children. Just as the esteemed Minister of Education and Science here said that he believes in local government leaders, so do I. There's nobody on the scene who doesn't want to bet on the kids. The simple question is that there is no money on the ground. Unfortunately, Estonia's tax system is such that, first of all, Estonia is a very thin country where local governments and the state have little money to use. And secondly, this tax system is very much inclined towards the central government. The municipalities do not have this money and that was why the government at the time actually created this system and why these sums were given to the municipalities. The country saw that there was a problem and that the problem had to be solved. Believe me, somehow it doesn't get any better. We've got this thing going now. It was about the money, the lack of it, we've got it going, now we're taking the money, and we think it's working out of air and love. It doesn't work! It just doesn't work! And when it comes to this chair of speech that people have talked to different local government figures and none of them want to take away that money, no one will say that, of course, because the elections are coming. No one is saying that difficult choices must be made and we do not know which coalitions will emerge and who will win the local elections in the autumn. The budgets, however, will be made after the elections. After the elections, they will be made, and then we will see what happens. It is, of course, very easy for a government representative to come to this speech chair and go to the journalists and tell them that, see, everything is good, someone to cut back something, but there is no real money on the ground. And that's the problem. Knowing all this, I think that this is not news to anyone about how things really work in Estonia and what opportunities exist. That is why, in my opinion, this action is also irresponsible. You can't do that. Speaking of this cutback, the Minister described it as a hero. I think that from the Minister's point of view, there are difficult choices and everything else, but, in fact, looking at this whole cutting logic, you can say that there is no need to cut at all. There's no need to cut at all! Firstly, there is no way to cut ourselves off from any crisis. No, it's not! It's still usually people. As a rule, it is the people who are to be contributed to, those who have been hit during the crisis, such as children and young people. These must be contributed to and those who create social value and actually help us out of this crisis more quickly and better. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U372	Please, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U373	In that sense, it makes no sense to me why we're cutting. No crisis can be cut off. The crisis emerges by investing. Let's think about economic logic, how entrepreneurship works! Although I do not like these comparisons, the management of the state and society cannot be compared to the management of the company, but since the Reform Party has such faith and is operating according to it, I say that it is actually the way that companies who first give up their investments, which could help them to move forward, will also quickly stop. They're certainly not successful. I think the same logic is true for society. And worst of all: we can cut down, cut down, cut down, cut down, but these very important loans, which were undoubtedly needed to finance certain activities, to overcome the crisis, cannot be repaid. It is not possible to pay them back by cutting them. We can shut down the graduating allowance completely, we can raise nobody's salary for the next 20 years, we can sell the Rescue Board's last fire truck, but we're still short of money. In short, our country is already thinly sliced, and if we try to cut it by coming out of this hole, it will not be possible to do so without the functions that are very important to the state and society being hit or very important people not getting hit, such as children. I therefore hope, however, that the Minister and the Honourable Government will reconsider and reconsider. It was very frightening to hear the answer that the decision will not be changed, even if there will be greater revenue, if economic growth is more positive, if there will be more money coming from originally planned, and if it is not possible to cut down on recreational education, rather than save on young people, rather than save on investment in people in some ways, rather than save on the future. It is these same young people who will have to support this country in the future. They will create our social wealth. In short, if this money comes more than by chance, but there is no wish to change the decision, then it is very sad. My request and my appeal is: if we can do this, and I say that it is possible to do it, then please do it! Let us find ways to invest in people, let us find ways to keep children safe! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U374	Thank you very much. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Helmen Hunter. Of course, please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U375	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good fellows! Minister, thank you very much. We were talking about the town of Viljandi, and I can tell you right now that the city of Viljandi is a good self-government. We have both a sports school, a hobby school, a music school, an art school, an open youth centre, excellent facilities, instruments, musical instruments and excellent teachers and tutors in the field of interest education. In the case of recreational education, both teachers and circle managers are paid by local governments and the report states that there have been additions to recreational schools and open youth centres across Estonia. In this respect, the financial contribution of local authorities has certainly increased, I agree. You recognized the importance of mental health. Of course it is, but there is a very strong connection between recreational education and mental health. Young people who do not have good results in education experience a success experience in the field of recreational education. The child learns, experiences important competence thanks to the education of interest and becomes more confident. There should be opportunities to discover, develop and create talents at an early age, both local authorities and the country's most important tasks. It is true that local authorities are doing their best, but the situation in which, for example, Viljandi Municipality must find more than EUR 140000 from its budget in order to maintain its current level is worrying. Does the parish have the means to do that? One might say that what I am talking about here is what the opposition politician is talking about. And in order not to think that way, let me quote the press release of the Alliance for Child Welfare on 1 June, or Children's Protection Day. The Union notes: "Children are our future" is a sentence that is widely used today. That's right, but they're not just our future, they're our present. Children are here and now, while we adults often make decisions about their future without asking and taking into account their own opinions. " One example is the decision of the state to cut the funding for children's interest education. In particular, according to the budgetary strategy of the country to be approved, support for recreational education and activities will fall from EUR 14.25 million in the new year to EUR 7.25 million. "Isn't it strange that we are reducing what helps to alleviate the situation where the academic results of Estonian students reach the best, but our children are statistically unhappy about all of this and are in trouble with their mental health," wrote Triin Sooäär, Head of the Youth Council of the Alliance for Child Protection. Local authorities, as I said at the beginning, are doing everything they can, while in the case of long-term care, the state and the Ministry of Social Affairs are recommending: turn to the local government, they are closest to you. Their costs have been constantly falling; they must increase them. At the meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs, we found that even the task of the state to ensure special care often falls on the shoulders of the local government, because there are not enough places for the provision of special care services in public authorities and because of this the municipalities are in a state of compulsion, because these people are here today and are in need of help. There are still countless tasks that say that there is a local government to better serve its people. We need more child welfare workers, we need more carers, we need more supporters, but all this is money. I thank the ambassadors of the Patriotic Union very much for their questioning, because this gives us the opportunity to speak at length on this very important issue. The next question is about to be asked by the Socialists on the same subject. I also thank the Minister for his sincere and heartfelt answers, in my opinion. However, I very much hope, like many previous speakers, that this 7 million cut will be reviewed. To say that this must be guaranteed by local authorities is not reasonable and correct. A new measure is currently being introduced, without knowing how it will be implemented, instead of continuing the old one. After all, this same blue report shows an analysis, which says that this measure, which was developed in 2016 and implemented in 2017 to 2020, worked very well, brought a large number of tens of thousands of children into education of interest. And our most precious asset is man, young or old. But in order for a young person to be a good citizen in the future, his or her youth must contribute to his or her education and education of interest. So thank you very much, and I very much hope that in the autumn we will come back to this issue and, to the delight of all the heirs, this 7 million will stand on that line again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U376	Thank you very much. Looks like there's no wish for a rejoinder right now, so let's move on. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu, Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U377	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, I will begin by thanking you. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for bringing this issue to the hall. The subject is serious, and I very much hope that these talks will also have some consequences, although, unfortunately, having listened to the Minister's answers, I do not think there is too much hope to hold on to. With the same rigour, the minister here has assured us that he is sorry that he has to cut, but if he had more money, he would put it somewhere else instead. This is actually a summary of its responses today. The Minister would put that money somewhere else, and one of the other things mentioned is the cultural pack. It is certainly worth doing, I absolutely agree that this is a good idea, but doing it so that we cut up another measure, which is already very well-functioning and very much needed, is inappropriate and cynical. I do not understand how to explain this at all if the Minister confirms that he has nothing against this measure in itself. Is it political spite that the Social Democrats, rather than the Reform Party, have been behind this measure? Is this revenge for the fact that before this measure actually entered into force, but had already been agreed, an exchange government and the Reform Party moved to the opposition and the Social Democrats still started to implement it with the Fatherland and already with the Centre Party? What is the reason why this is being done? But in any case, whatever this reason is, it's extremely cruel. Because the Minister's answers also say that this measure has served its purpose. But how can it be said that the objective is met if it itself is admitted that the aim is to ensure that as many children as possible, preferably all children, have access to an education of interest, but we have actually reached 63% of children? In this case, how can it be said that the goal is fulfilled, and that half the money is collected, saying that everything is now well? In the same way, it is quite foolish to say that, since so much money is no longer going to ensure diversity, more is going for the sake of availability, we can sort of write down this diversity. It's a system of connected vessels. Minister, diversity is needed in order for a child to have any choice at all. You can't put all the kids in basketball practice or a choir. They must also have some kind of alternative. And that's why we need diversity. And here's the difference, whether it's a scattered settlement or a big city. In a big city, you may have hundreds of choices another time, but maybe there's one, two, or three in a diffuse settlement. That is why it is necessary to create this diversity so that as many children as possible can get to the activities of interest, so that they find themselves capable and interesting activities that they really care about, not where they are going to be taken by force at the beginning of September, and by October they have already fallen out of it, because it does not really concern them, it is not where they feel talented or what they really want to do and can explain to their parents that this is where I want to go. In the same way, the Minister's statement that he did not believe that there was a loss of availability led me to hear. EUR 15 million has increased by 30% the number of children who go to the community, by 30,000. If we take half this money away, how is it possible that the number of these children will not fall? How is it possible that access will not be reduced? Please explain to me how, like nothing, nothing comes about, and that something is a remarkable amount of children! I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U378	Of course, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U379	Thank you. So this argument, too, is not adequate. At least it's not thought through. So once again, I ask the Minister to think about what he is saying. If you are now saying that there are weaknesses in this measure, my question is, but why are you going to take this money away from the children, why are you not asking what the Ministry of Education and Research is doing? Why don't you ask about the work of the bureaucrats who have grown up in this state apparatus like on yeast, as is often said here? Why don't you ask them what they do from morning to night? Why doesn't some of these resources go exactly where you think it's supposed to go? At the same time, I would point out that one of the charms of this measure is that the result is being measured, but the way in which this result is achieved is largely up to the local authorities themselves. But if you see that money is being misused somewhere, ask your agency what they are doing and deal with cutting their number if they are unable to do their job, rather than taking money away from their children. And then you say you're making a better system. You're going to do a better system in a situation where you're in government with the Centre Party. You are going to make a regionally better system in a situation where you are in the government with a party in the sole power of Tallinn, who, in the context of Tallinn, might actually win the measure in the least proportion, because the purpose of this measure is to give children a more equal opportunity. And we know, as the minister told us repeatedly from this remote control, that, unfortunately, opportunities are unequal, especially bad compared to larger cities. How can you make this measure more effective when your coalition partner looks at Tallinn's budget in particular? That is not possible in practice, no matter what you try to tell us. These things have never been like this in real life. Finally, I would very much like to know from you how you intend to restore the confidence of the local authorities in the state after you have cut them again. You shaved them at the time of the depression, when we had taken a measure to ensure that the pay of kindergarten teachers would rise. Local authorities were promised that they would receive a bonus if they fulfilled that promise. They did it. The money was taken. We spent several years explaining to the local authorities that, listen, it is not possible to come up with such a cynical party who will also come from the teeth of the children to take the money away, no matter what happens. They were very hesitant whether the country kept its promise. And now the country is breaking a promise again. And then you go and you tell them, and now there's a bar of culture, and believe me, that money isn't being taken away.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U380	Good waitress, your time is up!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U381	Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U382	Thank you. So, are there requests or rejoinders? No, it's not. Got it. I will close the negotiations and this has been answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U383	Let's move on to item six. Evgeni Ossinovski, Eduard Odinets, Jaak Juske, Helmen Küti, Riina Sikkut, Heljo Pikhofi and Lauri Läänemetsi, submitted on 5 May 2021, an inquiry into the financing of interest education, bearing the number 75. Liina Kersna, Minister of Education and Science, will answer the question. Please ask the representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair, Jaak Juske, member of the Riigikogu, to introduce the inquiry.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U384	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! We will continue this discussion on the subject of reducing the support for children and young people in recreational education. This last debate, which lasted for an hour and a half and, at times, very emotional, showed that the subject concerned a great many. It concerns hundreds of young people all over Estonia, not only young people, but also their families. However, unlike those of my good colleagues, Members of the Isamaa Group, the Social Democrats, on their six points, pay more attention to the concerns of the Minister concerning the impact of this decision on the increase in inequalities between families with children and also on the increase in regional inequalities. We wonder what the weight of the government is, where on one side there is a thin country that needs to be thinned, polished, and on the other side there is a country that cares about its people, cares about families with children. How does the government make these decisions, and what weight do these decisions have to dominate? Like I said, there are six questions. And I can promise the Minister that if you come to this remote control, you will answer the questions and at the end you will say that you have understood that this is a very wrong decision, and you will take that decision back, this budget cut will not come, we promise that we will ask you no questions. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U385	Thank you. I now ask the Minister of Education and Science, Liina Kersna, for a speech chair in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U386	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! I'm gonna start by answering the questions right now. I was wondering if I would say a few comments, but we can also discuss this in a round of questions and answers. "Why did the Government of the Republic start cuts in your government's area from an interest education support system, i.e. a decision to increase inequality between children and young people? " I repeat: I was guided by the principle of what is the task of the state and what is, according to the law, the task of the local government. The organisation of youth work, including recreational education and activities, is by law the responsibility of the local government. Four years ago, the State decided to allocate additional support to local authorities, for two purposes: to increase the diversity and accessibility of recreational education. Today we see that, in the interests of diversity, this money has been used less and less year after year, because we know that circles of interest cannot be created indefinitely. It seems that the diversity of the circles of interest is guaranteed. The question now is whether local authorities are willing to take on their shoulders to ensure diversity in the context of an increasing budget, and the state could continue to contribute to improving accessibility. I think that's the way it could go on its own. "Did the Government of the Republic discuss this high-impact cut in advance with the parties involved in providing interest education? If not, is this the style of today's Government of the Republic to make decisions concerning the whole of Estonia? " I answered the exact same question as the ambassadors of the Fatherland Party. Yeah, really, I didn't, and I'm sorry about that. These decisions needed to be made under pressure of time, and I really did not meet the parties involved. And I'm embarrassed about that. But I did invite the umbrella organizations to meet me, and then we could talk about the troubles. On 1 June, we had a meeting of more than two hours, and we agreed that we would continue and discuss on 13 July further how to use the available money as effectively as possible from the position of lobby organisations, and we will also discuss whether we should make major legislative changes to finance the education of interest in order to ensure that as many children as possible can participate in the education of interest. The third question: "How does the Government of the Republic plan to ensure access to recreational education for hundreds of children and young people who were able to go to the circle of interest through this support measure? " Once again, it is clear that EUR 7 million is also a very large amount of money. I never said it was a small amount of money, as was said here in the last questioning calls. This 7 million is a very large amount of money and 7.25 million will remain in this support measure. There will certainly be an impact on the use of this money, and I believe that this money could be used primarily to ensure availability. We really have an increase in the number of young people participating in recreational education. However, whether the number of young people participating in recreational education has increased only thanks to state support, we cannot say because local authorities, when I look at data for four years, have contributed more and more each year to ensuring that they have an interest education and activity, which is very sympathetic. The fourth question: "What is the reduction in the number of children and young people involved in recreational education according to the Ministry's assessment? " We do not have any analysis to confirm the recent figures in the press that an additional grant provided 30,000 children with the opportunity to participate in the education and activity of interest. According to the reports submitted by local authorities, it may have been argued that the additional support could have attracted more than 10000 participants in the field of recreational education and activity. However, we cannot say that these are so-called unique children, because the capacity of local authorities to collect data varies greatly. The numbers of children attending hobby schools are listed in the Estonian Education Information System, but we do not really have any information about children in hobby groups. They are not collected nationally, and that is the problem. We plan to pay more attention to the quality of data collection and to the means to make evidence-based decisions from its perspective. The impact of the cut depends on the decisions of local authorities to continue to use public money, what needs to be covered by the basic budget and what kind of state support. Question 5: "Many teachers are earning an extra fee today as a guide to hobby groups. How many of them are now losing their extra work and income because of the cut? " In your question about the loss of additional income for teachers, there is a presumption that people earning extra fees as guides to hobby groups will lose extra work because of the cut. Whether or not this assumption is correct is shown by time. But the state's support is partially maintained, and in a large picture it represents a small part of what local authorities themselves contribute to the education and activity of the community. Question 6: "What cuts in your area of government are still to be expected in the coming years? " I said in response to the previous question, "and I was very pleased to see that you were also in the hall, 'that a great deal of public attention has been paid to this cut of EUR 7 million. It must be acknowledged that this is not the overall cut that ministries have to make. The Ministry of Education and Research will have to reduce its fixed costs by 6.4 million next year. If you were talking here earlier about bureaucracy, then really, in the context of cutting these fixed costs, we are trying to look very carefully at how much we are dealing with, whether we are processing something double, how we are making decision-making processes more effective within the ministry so that we can save on fixed costs. So in any case, in addition to this 7 million, the Ministry will have to reduce fixed costs by 6.4 million. And I will do everything in my power to ensure that this 6.4 million does not include the services provided by the state in the field of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U387	Thank you, Minister. Let's go to the questioning, at least there's one already. Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U388	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear waitress, As far as this whole discussion is concerned, I have also spoken to several local government people on this subject today and before. I have realized that, in fact, in these three years, such a gigantic work has been done to create a system. Flexibility exists and local governments have different approaches. And I will also say on the basis of my practice that there are undoubtedly problems and that problems must be resolved. If there is a problem with hinges, it has to be solved. If this is a disproportionate use of money in a niche, it needs to be corrected. But what does it look like when the country made some decisions at one point four years ago and the system was built up, but now it's not like party politics? There's another decision being made, I've heard of a cultural pack, the content of which I don't know exactly. In this respect, I ask, what does it look like when a country like this turns its heels in a situation where people have already done something in the truth and in the spirit?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U389	Thank you for your question, Mr. Padar. I would like to remind you once again that the Youth Work Act states that the state will pay this additional support to local authorities whenever possible. So, in fact, no local government should have an endless legitimate expectation of obtaining this money. The law states that if possible, this allowance will be paid. The decision has now been made that these options will be lower.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U390	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U391	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! Thank you for your sincere answers, and I really believe that it was very difficult for you personally to make such a decision, but with the best intentions. When we talk about the responsibilities of the state and local government, which are imposed by law, then these aggregated numbers are operated with the average municipality. It just increases inequality. This is the case at the moment where the regional balancing measure is starting to amplify inequality. It is now the case that Setumaa must make 14 times more effort than Tallinn to cover this subjugation by the state. Loksa must work 22 times as hard as Keila to provide children with current level of education of interest. I understand the obligation imposed by law on the municipality, but this decision is very foolish in regional policy. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] We cannot talk about average self-government; we must look at the individual capacity of local governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U392	Thank you. That is why I am saying that we need to negotiate with the local government union how to use the available money in such a way that it is precisely to support those who need it more and not so many who are already doing well.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U393	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U394	Thank you, good Chairman. Dear Minister, In today's debate, we have learned that indeed this measure has gone well and that access to education of interest has increased considerably in providing money. Now let's try to test that if we take the money, it goes back to five or six years ago. Well, it's bound to fall. My question is, why are we doing this, or why is the government doing human trials? Why are we experimenting with our children, with our young people?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U395	Thank you. We certainly don't do human trials. And if you highlight the contribution you make to young people, the whole education sector clearly contributes to young people. Every euro that has been invested in education has been invested in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U396	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U397	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. This talk of endless legitimate expectations somehow gripped my ear. These are the promises of the state, the promises of the state to the local authorities, which the state is currently breaking. This is not an unreasonable and endless expectation; it is a very concrete and very clear expectation that the state will fulfil its promises. As I understand it, we are now starting to classify local authorities as those who are able to carry out an education of interest and those who cannot. You obviously do not understand the cost that some municipalities have maintained and invested in recreational education. But this problem is not only in small and poor municipalities, there can also be problems in large cities, such as Kohtla-Järve, which, despite its size, is still a poor municipality. Why, as a government, do you not only attack children and young people, but also break the promises that the government has made?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U398	Thank you for your question. Once again, when this support was created, it was written at the level of the law that the state would do so whenever possible. So there can be no endless legitimate expectation that this support will remain until the end of time as it was created at the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U399	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U400	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! I really do thank you for these answers, but, as I said, I am very upset that teachers are forced to see their pay rise at the expense of children's and young people's education of interest. At the same time, I'd look to the future. If next year's teachers' pay for recreational education rises by 3%, what happens to teachers' pay in 2023 and 2024? Where does the money come from? What, then, are we going to cut?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U401	Thank you. Firstly, I very much hope that the increase in teachers' pay next year will not be within 3%, but we can raise it more. If we could raise teachers' salaries by 5%, this means that it will remain at its current level compared to the average wage. We know that this year the pay of teachers did not rise. If we raise him by 3%, in fact, the pay of teachers will decrease compared to the average wage. I think that the minimum wage for teachers should rise by 5% next year. I hope it rises more.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U402	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U403	Good manager and good minister! Your ancestor hired one of the people whose name I will not name, but who was appointed head of the Education and Youth Board and was awarded a salary that is not even the president, the Prime Minister or the President of the Riigikogu. But it wasn't competence. And the name of the institution is the Education and Youth Board. Now, if you look at the cut in the funding of interest education, do you think that keeping such a person in office with such a salary, by the way, I asked, it was a basic salary, what is his total salary, it is a supplementary question, is wise at this time of decline?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U404	Thank you. As I said before, the Ministry of Education and Research must reduce its fixed costs by EUR 6.4 million in addition to reducing the support for recreational education. I have tried to explain how difficult it is to save money in the field of education because, in fact, there is a need for extra money in practically every area curated by the Ministry of Education. We are now talking about recreational education, but there could also be an option that we are talking about the salaries of early childhood education teachers, which the state supports with EUR 15 million. We could talk about schools for children with special needs. All possible cuts in education hurts, hurts those who are being taken away, and are not easy for decision-makers to justify. But with regard to this 6.4 million, we are really working in the Ministry to make both the Ministry of Education and the Education and Youth Agency more effective. We are reviewing the work processes so that we do not have to go down in the field of education or even reduce wages.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U405	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U406	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. My question continues with Jaak Juske's question of what will happen next. You have openly expressed your position that, in order for teachers not to come to the streets, you must give them some kind of raise. And you have said that this increase in wages of 3% comes largely at the cost of reducing the money for recreational education. Today, you have also said that your own preference, if money of this magnitude could be extended to next year's budget, would rather be a cultural pack. Does this mean that if we look further from here, if more money is needed for teachers' salaries in 2023, for example, or more money is needed for the cultural pack, or if next year you want a slightly higher increase in teachers' pay, then you could also cut this other half of the support for interest education according to your logic? It's like the first thing you can take.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U407	Thank you. When making the country's budget strategy, we were given an overview of the forecasts and possible additional funds that could be used for additional requests. And I well remember that it was EUR 58 million, which could be used to satisfy any additional requests from the ministries. You have been in the government, and since you have been through the process of budgeting, you certainly know how much extra money there is in the various ministries. The Cultural Council is to be transported by the Ministry of Culture, and if the government decides to give it extra money, it will go to the Ministry of Culture's budget. You asked me a written question about teachers' salaries. And that's where you got the exact amount of money you need for teachers' paychecks. These are very large sums of money and these amounts are certainly not what could be found within the field of the Ministry of Education and Research. Teachers' pay certainly needs additional funding, and I hope, as has been going through here repeatedly, that our economy is doing well, that our taxpayers are doing well, that more money is coming into the state budget, and that we can pay teachers a decent salary.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U408	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U409	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. This discussion in this hall is well based on local government: state and local government, relations and trust. But actually, we're betraying the trust of young people and parents. It is not a matter of local government. The question is that these families have received this money, but no one has gone to the door and told them personally that, you know, a child with your special needs can now go to the circle of interest, but take into account that if the country is doing badly, we will end this opportunity. It's the biggest tragedy in the whole thing. My question is this: do you actually have any analyses in the ministry that interest education really needs? Does recreational education suddenly need more money? Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U410	Thank you. Indeed, when I met interest education umbrella organisations, our focus was, in addition to reducing this support, on a number of other important issues that concern them. One problem related to the professional standard for teachers of interest education, which does not exist. And we will discuss it further in July to move towards the emergence of professional standards for education teachers of interest. Secondly, there was definitely the paycheck, which you yourself pointed out in your speech. In the field of community education, pay should be similar to that of teachers in general education schools. And the third issue that has been highlighted is that we are currently not very different in terms of funding from interest and education. It was precisely in this context that we considered that if, for example, in a music school or dance school, we have children who are very talented in this field and really need more attention in developing their talents, there is currently no additional support to deal with these talented children. As far as financing of recreational education is concerned more generally, we can see that the money for recreational education goes primarily to recreational schools set up by local authorities, which are perfectly understandable and understandable. At the same time, many children also take advantage of the opportunities offered by private interest education. There are activities that are not provided by local authorities themselves, too, and municipalities often do not pay support to these children. It was also pointed out as a problem how we can get the so-called "interest education" money to accompany the child, not so many institutions. And I will certainly continue to discuss all these issues with representative organisations in the field.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U411	Helmen Hunter.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U412	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, I have just come up with a question because of your last response. You have also said in advance that this money has not always been used as it was meant to be. As I recall, there were two conditions for allocating this money. One was that it should not be put into concrete, and the other was that its funds should not be withdrawn, but that it should be added to it. Did you also consider the option not to reduce this money, but to establish more robust rules? You mentioned, for example, that there is also a private interest education, and perhaps a certain percentage of the support that the municipalities receive could be directed towards private interest education. Maybe we could not reduce the amount, but change the conditions a little bit. So far, the municipality was able to decide on this and that is its responsibility and competence to decide, but if we see that something has been done differently than expected, even though the number of children in recreational education has increased, perhaps the conditions could be revised.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U413	Thank you. Indeed, I have repeatedly said what was the purpose of this support. And even if this money has not been used for a specific purpose, I am not saying that the use of this money has been somehow bad or wrong. The fact that children at the music school go to competitions, they have to go there, it's very right that they go there. This has indeed been demonstrated by local authorities in their monetary figures that they consider this area to be important because, despite the support of the state, they have contributed more and more each year to their basic budget for recreational education and activities. And it's been really good. When we talk about the extent to which access to recreational education and activities has improved, it is certainly not right to say that this is only the result of public support. This is also the result of the goals set by the local authorities themselves and of the money actually contributed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U414	Minister, there are no further questions. Thank you. I open negotiations and ask Jaak Juske, representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U415	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! Dear Minister, First of all, we thank you for your answers to our questions. We can continue to argue here for a very long time today whether it is necessary and reasonable or not to roll up a country with budget cuts. Here the Social Democrats and the Reform Party are clearly divided views. But in any case, it is quite cynical to start saving our future, our children and young people. The government's decision to halve the education allowance is unfortunately. What the government, led by Kaja Kallas, is accomplishing more and more in education reminds us of what the EKRE did in the previous government with our allies. While EKRE harvests the essential foundation of our statehood, or security, every week, the government of the Reform Party and the Central Party is sawing the second pillar of our society, significantly reducing the funding for education. One of the steps taken by this reactionary policy is a cut in the funding of children's and young people's interest education, which clearly increases the inequality of families with children. Minister of Education Liina Kersna tried to shake ashes on her head here today. He admitted that this cut-off was a mistake. But if there's a mistake, it's gonna have to be fixed. Unfortunately, the Minister does not intend to reverse this foolish and pointless decision. Instead, he continued to seek inappropriate justifications before us here today. The Minister repeatedly stressed that recreational education is the responsibility of local authorities. Yes, but this does not mean that the state could not provide additional support to municipalities in order to reduce inequalities and involve significantly more children in recreational education. And it is precisely this support created by the Socialist initiative that today's government has gone down. It is scandalous that local governments have not been consulted on this issue in the past. The government just decided to cut it, that's all. With such arrogance, however, the government loses credibility. However, the government has made its sad choice, and so, in fact, the most important question right now is how to ensure that children who, thanks to this support measure, have gone to the circle of interest are able to do so in the new year. The government's answer is that the local governments pay the missing money themselves. Yes, perhaps Tallinn as the capital and its neighbouring municipalities can indeed do so. Very many smaller municipalities across Estonia, however, must suddenly find 100,000 euros from their budget, for example, or often considerably more. This is clearly a very high cost for them. In this way, the government will also increase regional disparities with this cut. Liina Kersna was not ready to promise here today in front of the Riigikogu that if a child stays on the street due to the loss of interest education support in the new year, she will take responsibility and resign. No, the Reform Party is only interested in budget balance at any cost, not the flesh and flesh of people, our children. But if the Reform Party does not try to hide its cynical and arrogant policies very much, then, in fact, the hypocrisy of the Central Party, or the other government party, is what bothers me most on this issue. The leading middle parties on Toompea and downtown shed the tears faked in their press messages, condemning the sharp tone of reducing the support for interest education. But I remind the Estonian people that the Centre Party still belongs to the government. All government decisions are also made with their support. Good middle party! If you really care about children, show that you have a spine! Set yourself at the table of the government and brake this fool! Or if you really can't beat the Reform Party, either get out of the government or take full responsibility for increasing inequality in Estonia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U416	I now ask the Riigikogu for a speech chair in Lauri Läänemets.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U417	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, A great deal has been said here, particularly from the government's point of view and from the Minister's point of view, that recreational education is the responsibility of local authorities and that local authorities can handle all of this. After all, it does not matter whether this money is in the local government budget or comes from the state budget, eventually it is collected in the same way in society and then decisions are made. It seems more to me that this is a rejection of responsibility from the government to local politicians: you take responsibility, you have to explain to people why the government has made such decisions, why this circle is going down and why this circle is going down. That's not what the government does. It's not pretty. Definitely not pretty! Finally, it is not a question of local governments. This debate has somehow been put on a lot of local governments. Is it right to deceive local governments that one time is allowed, but then the minister says that maybe it's not quite allowed, that you see, there's such a small clause in the law at the point where the government can withdraw and say why you were still hoping for all this? I must say how this public support for recreational education is financed. This is not the case with a clause. After all, the state says what it wants to see, the state lets local governments do discussions, studies, analyses, then you have to fill out all forms, you have to describe how you solve some issues. In fact, the government has demanded and waited for such long-term commitments and now bang to come and say: friends, this is still not the way why you assumed it... By the way, I'm saying the last time these tables were filled out by the municipalities was the end of last year. And they were filled not for one year, but for two years. The government itself asked for two years to make these plans. The plans were all made, but now the funding's coming together. In this sense, it is not a matter between local governments and the state; it is actually a matter between the state and people. And it's very sad that we're not letting down local governments, parish elders and city leaders, we're letting down children. We fail children, we fail Estonian families, mothers and fathers who have taken this money into account. And no one has told them about these complex processes, and they are not wanted to tell them about these complex processes, because this cut also reaches a child with special needs. By the way, these circles of interest or these opportunities for children with special needs are incredibly many created all over Estonia. Incrediblely many of them have been created! There weren't any before, because this activity is just more expensive, because often one supervisor has to deal with maybe only one child. And they have not been told that they will lose their support. It's always like the weakest get hit hardest. This decision is not based on needs, is not based on the needs of children's development and is not based on the need to organise Estonian recreational education. The logic is quite the opposite. This means that there is no analysis, no negotiation, no logic, and no transitional period. That's a shame. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U418	Sure. Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U419	Thank you. Now from the word "efficiency." If it sounds like an entrepreneur, it's very good when it sounds like a politician, it's bad when it sounds like a member of the Reform Party, it's dangerous. We know what efficiency usually ends in government management. It ends with only looking at the money and Excel numbers, so things look nice, not that things work in real life and affect people's lives the way they should. We heard here about the answers to the questioning that there was talk about efficiency in the education of interest. I'm afraid of that word. If I think about it, yes, it was really a proposal that the Minister mentioned, but I'm afraid that may be the way to go. For example, money is put on the move with the child. This means that the whole system will actually be turned upside down. Now, efficiency in teachers' salaries and efficiency in general education schools. In reality, general education schools and teachers' salaries are very closely linked, because the municipality can always pay for these premises, which is not a problem; it is a question of teachers' salary. And when they start chasing efficiency, they're gonna look at you, you have so few kids, we're gonna pull together here, we're gonna set a national coefficient on the basis of which the money is distributed to the local governments, we're gonna do all of that around the paycheck, which essentially means we're gonna close small schools. Real life is what efficiency means. But I'd say it's not effective in any way. It is such a bureaucratic, life-stranger vision of the real life of society and inappropriate behaviour under the leadership of the state. I dare say that in some municipalities, they only look at their own wallets, but never at a man's wallet. As a rule, then, there will never be a record of how much a parent will be driving after he closes a small school or stops driving a public car intended for a hobby club. Sits for 10 minutes, 20 minutes, 30 minutes, let's multiply it by the number of parents, the number of days, the number of hours, the number of hours, the number of hours, that's a very large number. This is a very large number, and at that time these people may not have a job to earn, for example, an extra salary. This is a very high number of hours that will not contribute to the community, so that the community can live better, flourish, maybe there will be some new forms of enterprise. Unfortunately, these things are not taken into account. I hope that all this recreational education and all this saga of cutbacks will not end in efficiency. It would be good if the coalition's time ran out first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U420	I now request the Riigikogu Chair of Eduard Odinets. Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U421	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, It's sad. It's very sad! This whole story is really sad. I recall a few months ago when, as a member of Kohtla-Järve City Council, as a member of the Committee on Education and Culture, my colleagues and I discussed the same plan for two years, which the country demanded from us, promising us EUR 322000 for this plan. That's what the town of Kohtla-Järve gets. And we realized when we drew up this plan, how well we've actually been doing. How many children have we got into circles, how many new circles we've developed, how many people we've been able to pay for coaching interest groups, how much to raise, how many pills we could buy, how many competitions and festivals we could send our children. And we dreamed about what we were gonna do this year, what we're gonna do next year, what we're gonna do in the future, how we can develop this area with the support of the state. Then a groupmate calls me and says, "Did you hear that Liina's taking half the money out of her hobby education?" I thought it was funny, my colleague will remember that I said you're kidding, that's not possible. This isn't where Liina takes the money off. But then the news came, and indeed it was. So far, it is believed to create great emotions and sadness for all those people who have stood in local governments for this money to reach the right place, to be effective and to improve access to and diversification of recreational education and activities. We can talk about that no matter what this Kohtla-Järve big city, lots of money and so on. It's not like that! In a large city, it is quite possible that there are also financial problems. It is a city that has borrowed itself, who has a great deal of concerns, from which several hundred people leave each year, where the tax base is nonexistent. For us, Kohtla-Järve, this is very important money. The Minister will tell us what you're sad about. It is your job to ensure youth work, you have to do it, the state will support it if it does not want to, it will not support it. But there are still many other tasks that the local government must do. It is also the responsibility of the municipality to provide basic education, including the local government which pays salaries, the local government which provides food to children at school, and the money for textbooks comes from the municipal budget, of course with state support. Public transport, for example, is also supported by the state, and road repair is also supported by the state. How far do we get by saying that, but that's your job? If we want, we give, if we want, we take, we break our promises. Just like the man who's in charge of his word. He wants it, he gives it, he wants it, he takes it back. But the state can't act like this. We argue that local authorities have the capacity to invest themselves in recreational education. Again, who doesn't? It has already been said repeatedly here that not all municipalities are like Tallinn and its golden circle. We still have to think a little further away from the capital. It is also saddening that, as the Minister repeatedly admitted, no interest groups have been negotiated. Maybe if it had been done, that wouldn't have been the decision. Perhaps stakeholders would have been able to make it clear to the Minister that recreational education and recreational activities are not a place to save. The different messages that come from the government are also saddening. The Minister of Culture spoke in the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu to report on the improvement of the development plan in the field of culture. He spoke of the pride in the voice of how many thousand children in addition have now been able to acquire an education of interest and go to the circles of interest, how much support has been received in this whole area. And the Minister of Culture promised that he would make sure that this decision would be reviewed following the summer forecast. It was not the right decision, and the Minister of Culture was also very sad. And then, in the Committee on Culture today, the party partner of the Minister for Education states that no one will turn back this decision. He quoted the words of the Minister of Education. It's very sad. It is sad that the current Minister of Education and Science can go down in Estonia's latest history as Elsa Grechkina of our era. It was with Elsa Grechkina that the Chairman of the Committee on Culture, Liina Kersna, compared last week when we discussed the report on the cultural development plan. According to Aadu Black, it was Elsa Grechkina who, in order to raise teachers' salaries, had to reduce the pay of the staff in the education of interest. But that's not all we have yet. Well, we already know the hobbies cut. We heard about the cultural grounds. The grants granted by the Gambling Tax Board, paid out of the gambling tax, are frozen, and there have also been large amounts of money for education, youth and children's projects. They're gonna take it down, too. The minister says all the cuts hurt. Yes, they will, and hopefully the Minister. He seemed sincere when he talked about it. But in that case, why hurt anyone at all? Why hurt yourself as a minister? Why hurt an area to hurt children and young people, why hurt their tutors? Why even cut it? The Social Democrats have repeatedly raised the issue in this Chamber of whether we really have no alternative but to cut it. Unfortunately, this debate has not taken us anywhere. As we have already said, queenly, both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, as well as the Minister of Education and Science, claim that there is no alternative but to cut down, and also to cut down on recreational education and activities, we do not have any. Of course, this puts all of this in a very unequal position: both local authorities and children and young people living and delivering in local governments. But it seems that this is the policy of the current government, the Centre Party and the Reform Party. Let the one who can take care of himself. If anyone can't handle it, it's his problem and his problem. If there's no money, there's no circle of interest. The Social Democrats certainly do not accept this situation. We will continue to make sure that the money for recreational education and activities returns to where it has to go: children and young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U422	I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Peeter Ernitsa.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U423	Good manager! Colleagues! Good previous speaker! Good comparison with Elsa Grechkina! Of course, the nuances are different. Elsa Grechkina was the statue of the Russification Passage here, and you can't say that about Liina Kersna at first, but we'll get to the next point and then we'll talk about it. But I'm going to read you some of the new lyrics that composer Tõnis Kaumann has proposed. The fly doesn't fall far from the tree. Cut, cut, cut, cut. Cutting is the mother of wisdom. Before we cut, then have fun. A good cut beats a stranger's power. Scurry ahead, after the accident. The fly won't break around its nest. But that's enough. But one more thing: who cuts in the spring, it goes in the fall. You can read them yourself, a lot of interesting new proverbs. And the composer has also said that he is willing to become President of the Republic of Estonia in the form of a self-employed person, present an offer. But that's it. Is this a joke, but... Yes, we have only recently heard that we have about 30,000 children living in relative poverty and 6,500 children living in deep poverty. This means that because of their poverty, they cannot develop themselves. As I've already said, if you make carrots grow in poor soil, there won't be any carrots coming out. The same is true of physical and spiritual development. And what the Minister just said here, the cut, how it was, that a good cut would win a foreign force, well, I don't know. It's like eating your guts, eating your people's guts, taking away the opportunity to develop your talents. Every one of us is talented, every child is talented. Okay. 6.4 million. This morning, we spoke to the Minister of Defence and the Minister of the Interior of the same concern. The party partner of the Minister for Education needs to cut by 11.7 million. Well, send an orchestra to a long wave or museum, take 270 people, send it to the street. The Minister of the Interior was quieter, didn't say whether there were 400 or 500 rescuers and police officers, but everyone had a problem. At the same time, I recall that the money is, as the painting says, in the equestrian sesame. In the Special Committee on State Budget Control, I see this every week. Millions fly, tens of millions fly, but ministers thank the National Audit Office for its good work, but no one is responsible. Now some trivial 6.4 million! In order not to talk too long, I recall the Minister for Social Protection, a colleague of Liina Kersna. He recently came to talk to us about the COVID supplementary budget portfolio. The Minister of Social Protection has a portfolio of 6 million people linked to the so-called COVID, all of Estonia, all of social protection. But where does 1 million of that six go? It goes to ten violent burglars to secure a year's travel. These are the ones who are dangerous to themselves and to others, they are the ones who have passed through the court, and they must be sent to a so-called Kaagjärv-type school. For ten of these brats, it's been given 1 million for one year! But more than 250 of them have gone through the trial. And now I'm asking if it's wise... How about a few more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U424	You got it, three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U425	... whether it is wise, whether such a cutting is the mother of wisdom, as Kaumann says. Is it wise to spend such a wild amount of EUR 100,000 on a one-year trip for a brat somewhere? At the same time, we are looking at the loan burden of the Estonian state. The Minister of Finance is not here now, I think it's 18%. Greece has 180%, everyone else is hanging around there in the meantime. And now I hear from the Minister of Finance that we must continue to whip ourselves, to the Estonian state, to save from the orchestra, from the education of interest, to send violent brats with a 100 000-euro ticket to a semi-closed place for a year. It's embarrassing! There's money. And all the fuss that's been hitting the country isn't very smart. It is unwise, in this case, to kill the talents of these Estonian children by taking away the money of the education of interest and giving teachers, ordinary teachers, to raise their wages a little. But, by the way, the minister has a great demagoguery. When I asked about Ulla Ilisson's salary of EUR 6900 and how much his actual salary is because it's a basic salary, he didn't answer me. He didn't answer me at all. But, well, ministers may have to be like that Teflonist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U426	I now ask the Riigikogu for a speech chair in Indrek Saare.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U427	Thank you. You see, it's such an exciting subject that the minister is tired.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U428	I think he'll be right back.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U429	He's left the hall, but maybe we'll wait for the minister to see how we don't have a minister... I can wait for the minister from my time. I can take extra time when the minister gets back. I'm still waiting.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U430	Let's make sure I take the manager's break three minutes and then we move on. Adjournment by the President of the sitting for three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U431	Dear colleagues, the recess requested by the manager has ended. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Indrek Saare. And I'm asking you to make it through at least five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U432	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. It was very sympathetic for me how Minister Kersna spoke about the topics that were raised by teachers of recreational education and activities or, in fact, by the umbrella organisations of teachers and teachers in this education. And the Minister, I understand, expressed his view that he thought these were important issues, they should be dealt with. I really hope the Minister does. I think the Minister had a ranking in this way of professional standards, teachers' salaries and additional support for talented children. Those were the three things that the minister marked. I think it's very important. In fact, this additional measure of interest activity provided the basis for moving forward with professional standards. But the same people that you met, the leaders of these umbrella organisations, thought that, by the way, these umbrella organisations were created because of this measure, that additional money should be channelled there to set a higher target for the occupation of children and also qualitatively higher targets. But you have to have the means to do that. Yeah, the bureaucrats at the Ministry of Education are picking up a quarter of a million of that money because they have other expenses. Well, why don't we look at that money first? Maybe the Ministry of Education can find it somewhere else on his line so that he doesn't go after the money from the children's activities that are allocated to local governments. And there is money to seduce these umbrella organisations and, in fact, to ensure the quality of this work. I very much hope that you will not attack it and that this quality can be built on despite this other way around, with this bad message. When we talk about teachers' pay, I remind you what the Minister read to us here. Almost one third of the additional money provided by the state budget to support additional activities of interest will be paid. Now, if you take half of it, you're taking at least half of the salary money. So, if you have real concerns about the salaries of people in this area, about the supervisors and teachers who work in this area, why are you taking their money at the same time as you say you are worried about it? It's the logic to go to that 15 million, just as numbly, for kindergarten teachers' wages. When you went into an education of interest, there was a reason that it was not a direct obligation on the state, the minister went and made this cut in an area that was not a direct obligation on the state. The pay of early childhood education teachers is not in the same way - nowhere has it been said that this is a direct responsibility of the state. Next thing you know, you're gonna go after it and take out $7 million or $15 million. Why should we be sure you're not going to take that money? Or how can local governments have some kind of certainty that this motivational system that we've built will survive, that you won't go after it? The role of the state is to call on local governments, on the basis of the best knowledge that can be brought together at national level, to see the things that need to be done in the perspective. The state says that teachers' salaries are important, and it does not say that this is the responsibility of local governments. After all, education is organised by local governments, but the pay of teachers is paid by the state because it understands that teachers must be paid a decent salary. This must be ensured. It is a question of how these agreements have been maintained in recent years. Similarly, when the pay of kindergarten teachers was discussed, the Social Democrats spoke... I'm gonna have to ask for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U433	Sure. How much?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U434	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U435	Got it. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U436	...told you about it for years. And I remember very well now that I am forced to do a small, extra historical excursion, how in 2007 we also argued with the then Prime Minister in government, who, with the experience of his new local government leader, said why you think that the state should motivate the pay of kindergarten educators. At that time, many of these people still viewed them as educators. And the experience of the new local government manager was that if there were a head-to-head quote on the salaries of kindergarten educators, then we would not have a water centre in Tartu. What do you mean?! We would have spent that money eating it, raising the pay of kindergarten teachers, and now you're coming by the state to create additional motivation for us to raise the pay of kindergarten teachers?! We argued long and hard until we reached an agreement. And what happened? There, in Tartu, the pay of kindergarten teachers rose exponentially. Indeed, they had put this money in concrete, certainly very much needed concrete, but the result was that kindergarten teachers practically received the minimum wage in Estonia. It was just over the minimum in Estonia. This shows that perhaps, alongside all other concerns, the local government may not see what this means in the perspective if people in early education are not paid a decent salary and we cannot expect teachers to work there. Kalle Grüntha has now drawn the Minister's attention. I don't know, do we have to ask for another break?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U437	I'm not taking another break. Let's go. Right now, the manager's not taking a break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U438	Ladies and gentlemen, please allow us to talk about this, and then you can harass the Minister. At the time, this system was created, which, yes, was shrunk because it was cut off during the depression. But this system was now re-established. That is the task of the state: to think about how, with the help of this, it can motivate, give good examples, share good practices based on a certain level of competence gathered through ministries. That's the job of the ministry. This proves once again that neither the Minister of Education nor the Minister of Culture can say that it is none of my business to have an interest education. Hobby education is essential for children's creativity, their education. Not to mention that it is equally essential for the sustainability of Estonian culture. It's not just a local government thing. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U439	I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Heiki Hepner. Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U440	Good Chairman! Dear Minister, I would open it in my speech, but I dare say, a stupid cut decision in a bit more general and look at the principles of cut-off policy as well. Here is the first important keyword of ignoring global monetary and economic policy. The countries of the European Union use relaxed budgetary rules to boost their competitiveness and boost their economy. One minute these rules will come back, there is no doubt about that. Then we will discover that the opportunities offered to us for regional policy development have been hopelessly missed. I would also like to open up a little of what the municipal budget is made up of, or rather, what must be financed from it in addition to the education of interest. Indeed, the whole area of education goes to 50.60% and perhaps even more of the municipal money. It's one of the foundations of the local governments. But we cannot forget investments: roads, local roads, investments in schools, kindergartens. And we also need to think that this health crisis has made it necessary to invest further in the modernisation of ventilation systems. And now when it's said to take that money from there, well, I've been a municipal manager and I dare say it'll push this ten-year debt even further. This is not sustainable. Of course, the only reason for this decision is not just the Minister of Education. In fact, this cut-off decision is the responsibility of the Minister for Finance, the Minister for Public Administration and, ultimately, the Prime Minister. This is a holistic attitude that can really be called cynical spite, as it has once sounded in this speech chair. Because, indeed, we also learned that if our economic situation improves, this money will still not be returned. Instead, another ministry building will be built in Tallinn, or the money will be placed somewhere else. And this, despite the success of this measure, has brought a great many children to education of interest. And now we want to make sure that if we take the money, they're gone from interest education. Yeah, unfortunately, they're disappearing. I think it might be called human trials, stupid human trials. I'll give you an example from Raplamaa. The municipalities of Raplamaa came forward with the initiative to establish the Raplamaa Sports Academy to promote youth sports. It included the Olympic Committee, the Ministry of Culture, various sports clubs, our universities. Everyone said that very right, the state has also given money, and that is precisely the thing that has been said a lot, and now one county has started to resolve it systematically. Because it really isn't just about our top sport, our Olympic owls, our world champions, our European champions, it's about health, shaping children's mobility habits, all of what they learn in school and wear throughout their lives. Or we take our cultural life, which is actually carried by our municipalities: young music and art schools, children's folk dance groups, choirs, our singing parties, our dances. It's our cultural seed. And if we break it off, how do we look to the future? I fully agree with the Minister that every investment in children is an investment in the future. It is an investment in the competitiveness of our country; it is an investment in the sustainability of our country, in Estonian folk culture, really in Estonia as a whole. And now we've come to the realization that we could actually break it down, or at least part of it. We've evolved too quickly, we've built our future too firmly. Yes, the result of such an approach is in fact, as sad as it may be, a state of retarded development and the Fatherland Party certainly do not agree with the construction of such a state. We certainly do not agree with these cuts and will certainly not accept these decisions when we start discussing the state budget. In any case, we will remember this and we will fight for our culture to develop, our country to develop, our regional policy to be strong and healthy, so that the Estonian state can safely go to the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U441	I now ask the Riigikogu to speak to Riina Sikkut.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U442	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Today, it has already been stressed in this Chamber that the creativity of children, the preservation of learning interests, the development of skills, mental health are very important and that the education of interest is something that helps to achieve these goals. And no mention has been made here, but the media have been through a great deal about the potential of recreational education to change life. Interest education is where a child discovers that he or she is talented for something and that it may become his or her career or something that might otherwise balance a boring school life. The reports confirm that the measure works, effectively brings children to an education of interest. And indeed this is one of the few measures that are balanced, well-designed and well-designed in regional policy. When we are talking about the implementation of regional policy by the state, we really need similar measures in health care, social welfare and education. Regional policy is nothing that Jaak Aab does with money from some European Union funds. Regional policy can only be effectively implemented if it is taken into account throughout all sectoral policies. But now, in the field of education, this well-functioning and exemplary regional policy measure was struck by a cut. It's a bad decision. There is no doubt that such decisions must be clarified both in this Chamber and in the public. And then we need to find the reasons why we needed to make such a decision. It is very difficult for a person to live if he has to constantly repent of his decisions or misbehavior. So every decision, as we heard here more than a year ago in the case of the second pillar, is as if only reasonable: the system had to be demolished and that decision had to be made. Now we hear that this is, in principle, a necessary decision in the field of education, this reduction is essential, because there are so many concerns about it, and the state does not have to bear this type of commitment at all. Yes, the law imposes an obligation on local authorities to finance recreational education. But decisions made in this way in passing increase inequalities and reverse their effects is very difficult. I have a feeling that no one has yet realised that some municipalities receive more than 300 euros per child, some receive only a fewteen euros per child. It is now said that the municipality must assume this responsibility. The state has no obligation, the law imposes this obligation on the local government, and now no one wants to start jumping off at the expense of the children. This money must be found and the municipalities will find it. The Setomaa rural municipality works hard and Loksa works hard, but their effort is not half that in Tallinn. We're talking about tens of times more effort. Yeah, some people can't handle it, some people can't handle it, you can see that. But this message that even if long discussed, agreedly, municipalities create their own institution of interest education or something else, they actually work for one goal. Work for the discovery of children, I don't know, skills, talents. It is also valuable and unique as a cooperation experience, and I think it should actually be built on... I'll have those extra three minutes, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U443	Would you take it or are you sure? Please, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U444	Thank you. But it's also an unpleasant signal that the first cut comes at the expense of the children. And the fact that the state does not keep promises, that the local authorities are as alone and that regional policy is not as important as we say in words. Secondly, indeed, this comparison with the pay of teachers has hurt a lot of people. That the teachers are coming out on the street. But the kids aren't coming, and they really aren't coming, and that's why it's easier to take that money away. However, this means that others must raise their voices for their children. I am also talking about the decision-making process in the country in general, whether we are talking about taxes or cuts. We are talking about the average person, the average municipality, somehow calculating how many percent of this or the other is in the budget of someone whose income is increasing and whose income is decreasing. But we don't have these average people or these average municipalities. In fact, the effect, the one who wins or loses, is very different from person to person, bread frog to municipality. This is exactly the same with regard to this curfew of hobby education. As a negative example, some families signed up to receive 20 euros of community education support. Yeah, but that means it was an important amount for them. If a man's going through all that trouble, he's going to need it. And in the case of any kind of support or compensation, there are those who may not use it in a targeted way, somebody gets it unearned. And this needs to be dealt with in the context of supervision at both local and national level. The tasks of supervision are specific. They have to be filled, but that doesn't mean you have to take money from everyone. If someone is receiving parental benefit, we do not lose parental benefit as such for everyone. If someone is unduly entitled to incapacity benefit, we will not withdraw the benefit from all those who have a reduced capacity for work. The following argument was made that the objective of diversification has actually been achieved and perhaps more natural and technical circles would be needed, but they have not been formed. If, for example, the state sees that local authorities could contribute more in terms of the objectives of their educational legislation, this specific support is an instrument that can be guided by the conditions laid down by which the local authorities offer the activities of interest. If this instrument disappears, it will not be possible at all to direct this option towards natural and technical areas, for example. So the instrument actually disappears and gives a very negative signal and message to both municipalities and children. Mistakes can be corrected, but they must be acknowledged first. It is surprising to hear that it is not really a priority, and even if there is more money, there is no hope that the support for recreational education will come back. That's a shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U445	Would the Minister like a word? No, I don't. Then we will have finished the negotiations and we will be able to conclude this inquiry.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U446	Let us move on to our seventh item on the agenda. Enquiry submitted by members of the Riigikogu Peeter Ernitsa, Helle-Moonika Helme, Kalle Grünthali, Henn Põlluaasa, Paul Puustusmaa and Jaak Valge about the Estonian-language education agenda and the movement towards a unified Russian-Estonian school. As the representative of the heirs, I would like to ask Peter Ernitsa for a speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U447	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Colleagues! Nice night coming! Lasnamägi has one such kind of kindergarten, Wind kindergarten, where five years ago there were four or five non-Estonian children in each group, but there are already two thirds of them, most of them. The question is whether it is also an Estonian-language kindergarten or an Estonian-language group. As a result, we have written down some questions. We have also read a survey of 111 pages in thickness, the title of which is "The Development of a Single Estonian School Model in Estonia 2020." RITA-MIGRATION project and scientists, smart people have written it together. Our concern is that if the Reform Party is to move forward with a single Estonian school, then how does it match the words of our Constitution in the preamble to what is there, and whether it cannot compromise, even though it is for such a beautiful purpose, the education in Estonian as well. Will Estonian children not speak Estonian with accents in the kindergarten or school? I'm not going to read these questions. We've got six of them. But we can discuss it. I would like to hear from the respected Minister of Education and Research what he thinks of the Estonian School and the fears that we and many have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U448	And this opinion must be presented by the Minister of Education and Science, Liina Kersna. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U449	I'm gonna take a chance and pour myself some water.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U450	There's a chance. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U451	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! Just as in the field of education, for the most part, I have now been in employment for over four months, there are problems and there are challenges to be resolved. This subject, which we are now going to discuss, is certainly a very substantive challenge that we must tackle in our society. But I will try to answer your questions so that we can continue after the debate. Question: "Does the working group on the action plan for education in the Estonian language represent equally the advocates of the Russian-Estonian single mixed school as well as the advocates of the Estonian school so far? Who are the people in the working group defending Estonian schools and the rights of Estonian children? " I assure you that all members of this working group will be good at ensuring that the interests and needs of all parties are covered. This is one of the main principles of the working group. The group has been drawn up taking into account the expertise and experience of the members and their knowledge in the field of language learning. The working group includes representatives of educational institutions with both Estonian and Russian language of instruction. This working group has a total of 14 members. It is headed by Kristi Vinter-Nemvalts, Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Education and Research. But here are also the director of Jõhvi Russian school, coordinator of the educational cluster of Ida-Viru, Director of the Tallinn Kuristu Gymnasium, Head Specialist of the Multilingual Learning Bureau of the Ministry of Education and Youth, Director of the Tartu kindergarten Kelly, Director of the Narva kindergarten Sun, Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Language as Teachers' Association, Representative of the Institute of Humanities of Tallinn University, Professor of Estonian Reili Argus, representative of the Association of Cities and Municipalities, Lecturer of Estonian Literature at the University of Tartu, and Director of Tallinn Polytechnic. The second question: "Does the wishes of the Estonian parents of Lasnamäe, Maardu, Loksa, Kiviõli and other regions, who do not want their children to be Russified, have been taken into account and consider that in Estonia the child should be able to study in kindergarten and school with an Estonian language and cultural language environment? " It is certainly important that children in every region of Estonia receive a high-quality education in Estonian, of course also those who speak Estonian as their mother tongue. Ensuring a high-quality education in Estonian for all children living in Estonia does not mean Russing Estonian children. Language learning enriches different cultures and is a prerequisite for smooth integration. People in the working group are also well aware of the challenges that lie in different areas of Estonia with regard to ensuring high-quality education in Estonian, including for children with Estonian native language. It is important that the language can be learned according to its own needs and abilities. This means that a child with a native language must be able to learn Estonian as a native language and a child with a different native language as a foreign language. The development of the Estonian language of both parties should not be affected by the fact that the level of proficiency in Estonian in the class is different. The third question: "If the kindergarten or its "Estonian group" has two thirds of children with non-Estonian native language and is mainly concerned about foreign language learning and special needs, and Estonian children learn to speak their mother tongue with a Russian accent, do you think it is an Estonian kindergarten? " It is important that the improvement and development of the Estonian language of all children is supported, regardless of their mother tongue. Early learning of Estonian in kindergarten provides a better opportunity for further mobility in the school system. We must support educational institutions with an Estonian language of instruction, where there are a significant number of students in other languages to ensure that children quickly adapt to the new language environment. The trend of the last three years shows that on average the number of students with different native languages in Estonian basic education will increase by up to 1000 students per year. Question 4: "In Lasnamäe and many other schools and kindergartens in Tallinn and Ida-Virumaa, not all Estonian children are able to study in the Estonian language environment today. In the future, is it possible for an Estonian child to study in an Estonian language environment in each region of Estonia? " Both studies and experiences in other countries have clearly demonstrated that effective language learning must not ignore the extracurricular environment. It's leisure furnishing, cultural space, media space. Indeed, creating a learning environment in Estonian in different Estonian regions is a challenge. However, I believe that our schoolteachers, school leaders and teachers will do their utmost to ensure this in the best possible way. Our task is to support it in the ministry, for example by developing and proposing methodologies and updating educational materials. For example, in Narva, we are planning an educational campus in Estonian where you can obtain high-quality education in Estonian from kindergarten to the end of upper secondary school. We are investing more than EUR 24 million in creating a modern language learning environment. Question 5: "How do you, as Minister of Education, ensure that in a Russian-Estonian mixed school, neither Estonian nor Russian children will succeed in their studies? " That is why we are talking about the need to start early childhood education in order to ensure the best possible language skills for children in the school environment in order to succeed there. However, the success of learning depends very much on a number of factors, but our task is that insufficient national language skills should not be an obstacle to progress in the education system and later working life. I would also stress the importance of the good Estonian language skills of all children, regardless of their mother tongue. We are already planning to start supporting Estonian-language schools by providing additional hours, which would give the schools flexibility to ensure, for example, level group-based learning, which will help improve the national language skills of both Estonian and non-Estonian pupils. As a state, we must enforce the ability of schools to ensure a good education in Estonian with the financing of modern trainings and educational materials and the development of teaching methods. Question 6: "It makes sense that learning in the mother tongue ensures the best results. What studies do you rely on to claim that under the conditions of a single Russian-Estonian mixed school, the success of non-Estonian-language students will increase? " I understand that you can interpret my words here when I told you that the results of the PISA tests of children in Russian have been lower than those of children in Estonian-language schools. Of course, we want children with sufficient national language skills to be part of our very good education in Estonian. By the way, good native language skills also ensure better foreign language acquisition, which in turn helps students with different mother tongues to acquire subjects whose teaching is conducted by the school in the national language. Various studies have been carried out on this subject. It is important to understand throughout this process that a child with a language different from Estonian is able to acquire and acquire the same knowledge and skills as a child with an Estonian native language. Given the specifics of language learning, it should simply be taken into account that during a certain period, a child in another language may be left behind in learning outcomes for a certain period. That is, if he has not started education in Estonian already in early childhood education. It's a natural part of the process. The question is how we support those children who need more support. Learning the language also helps to learn more quickly the lessons in the language, not just learning the language in the language class. This has also been proven in a large number of studies. The Ministry of Education and Research is ready to contribute to Estonian-language schools with additional funding and leave the schools with autonomy to decide how this money will be used to improve language learning. Thank you. I'm ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U452	And there are. Jack White starts.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U453	Yeah, thanks! Minister, thank you very much. I'm going to ask you a little bit more about the background to this discussion. So, despite our 30 years of independence, among the countries of Europe, our national language skills have only risen ahead of one country, namely Moldova. Last year and the year before that, more than 4 000 to 5 000 people from eastern Slavic and Asian and African countries remained in Estonia. 4% of these new immigrants speak Estonian. Is it realistic that, now that the share of Estonians has started to fall again in Estonia, we are going to break the language teaching with some kind of miracle methods? After all, it is clear that the first thing we should do is to restrict immigration, and it is not enough to restrict the mobility of learning that you promised before, because it is actually only a quarter of the work, if that is the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U454	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U455	If we do not restrict immigration, we will have no hope of progress, no matter what method we use. Is your government okay with this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U456	First of all, new immigrants are invested in Estonian language learning through different budgets both in the Ministry of Education and in the Ministry of Culture, and these courses are significant for new immigrants. At the same time, it must be acknowledged that these courses have not always been filled 100% by the places created by the state. There is certainly room for improvement here to motivate and direct new immigrants to learn Estonian. Because really, when I say it by heart, we had 17,000 places to study, and they were suddenly filled with 14,000. Yes, of course, in order to answer your questioning, these numbers were also searched out, which was good to know. So in any case, it is important that the people who come to Estonia know the Estonian language as best as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U457	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U458	Mr President, Minister, thank you very much. This major report on the development of a single Estonian school model speaks of a success story, a school called Hannover Albert Schweitzer, which has been very successful in combining Turkish, German and all other nationalities with a single German school. My question is: how do you appreciate the progress of Albert Schweitzer School and the fact that it has also been modelled for our single Estonian school?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U459	Thank you. This study identifies different options, different models, and acknowledges that even in small Estonia, a particular model is not likely to work across Estonia, but must be a flexible model, selected according to local circumstances. What, for example, makes me very concerned? Indeed, parents of children in other languages have been carrying out a reform by choice for several years, which the state has not dared to do; they have increasingly taken their children to educational institutions in Estonian, both kindergartens and schools, year after year, and that is a good thing. What is not good is that the state has not come with its own support measures. It is quite understandable that if we have 20% or more children in other languages in an educational institution in Estonian, for example, whose language skills are not sufficient for immediate learning, these children need additional attention and more intensive language training. They haven't been given that so far. We have, in the ministry, in cooperation with the school leaders affected by this problem, in principle developed an additional financing model in order to support these educational institutions in the Estonian language more. It will certainly also support those Estonian-speaking children who study in such schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U460	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U461	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! We know that the biggest problem and obstacle in the transition to Estonian-language learning is, in fact, the lack of teachers. The transition of Russian schools to the Estonian language is not possible because of the teachers' frame. If we now think that we are simply putting these schools together, how do you imagine that such a unified school, where everyone is studying in Estonian, can be successfully launched in a situation where the problem of teachers' secondary growth is not solved first? These teachers, whose duties include the obligation to provide support to students with other native languages, will, of course, have little energy to offer all other work, including high-quality education for Estonian children. Teachers are likely to leave school even more, and this is no longer a success story, but a downward spiral for our entire education system and, above all, for teachers' successors. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] What do you mean to motivate them in the future if teachers already do not have enough motivation to stay in school?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U462	Thank you. Today we have 1900 teachers whose language skills do not meet the requirements. Interestingly, the language inspectorate estimates that the motivation of these teachers to develop their language skills is low compared to the many other professions. Probably (this is now my assumption) it can also be low because the state has not given a specific message by which time we will switch to education in Estonian. If these teachers want to continue in their profession, they simply need to develop their skills in the Estonian language. We have an Estonian language development plan that says that by 2035 the majority of education in Estonian should be transferred, which, I hope, will also give teachers additional motivation to develop national language skills. We have planned large sums of money to improve teachers' national language skills. We will certainly not close up Russian-speaking schools in the near future. This is really not possible, because our education system would not withstand it. Rather, we are moving forward step by step to ensure that Russian-speaking schools start giving more and more subjects in Estonian, by immersion or simply by giving them subjects in Estonian. Also, in order for students to be able to give their subject in Estonian, we have planned money to do this retraining.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U463	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U464	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You're saying here that a number of studies show that the program you're going to do is excellent according to the research. But I have a practical experience of my own. I was forced to study at a Russian school in third grade at Türi High School on 8 Viljandi Street. I can tell you that there was no merger, no immersion or anything like that. I can tell you that it actually fell into our whole class of study success. The worst part was recesses when problems arose at national level. It is like waiting for results on this subject, which would also relate to "real life." What do you think of this thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U465	Thank you. I had already attended almost one hundred educational institutions before or before my ministry, and as a minister, I have also attended various schools, including Russian schools or Russian-speaking schools, as well as schools where the school family has to cope in a way such as Kohtla-Järve Järve School, which is an Estonian-language school, but where half of the students are in other languages. It's been eye-opening. These educational establishments are really in trouble and we must support them. Not only are the children in Estonian in trouble there, although they are also in trouble, and I seriously mean with you that these children must also be supported, but there are also children in other languages in trouble. For example, I don't think it's right for a school like Järve, where there are so many children in other languages, they all learn Estonian as a native language together, and they all learn Russian together as a second foreign language. Why are we doing this? I really don't know why we've been doing this for so many years. I hope I can fix that mistake.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U466	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U467	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Good minister! I'd like to get a little bit wider. We have a completely significant number of people in Estonia who talk crazy or crazy, as if it were possible that any person who arrives in Estonia, regardless of the language in which he speaks or what his cultural background is, could be an Estonian. Well, sometimes it is thought that you can become an Estonian if you speak Estonian or speak Estonian, but sometimes you don't even think it's necessary. Please help me to dispel the concern that such thinking is sneaking around somewhere in the Ministry of Education or in today's government. Estonians are still Estonians and Russians are Russians and everyone has their own native language. If we come here people or non-Estonians here teach us how to speak Estonian, it does not mean that they change their nationality, but it means that they integrate into our society.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U468	Thank you. I think it's a rather personal feeling that I feel like. I think about my cousin's children, whose mother is Estonian, but his father is half French and half Italian, they live in Estonia and go to Estonian school, but they have also lived in France. How are they one day gonna feel about who they are? In that sense, it is such a personal question. Surely there is no way to force it by the state that you must become Estonians and feel like Estonians. It is certainly important to know the Estonian language simply by acting in this society. But what a nation somebody feels like is a personal matter for every person.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U469	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U470	Good manager! Good minister! I'm with you at your last, how can I say, saying yes because my husband's father is Finn and mother is Estonian and he's an adult and he doesn't recognize himself as Finn? But after being the head of the Toila school, the head of the upper secondary school, I have had the opportunity to deal with the very same way of saying, the teaching of Estonian to Russian children. The big problem was that many children from Sillamäe wanted to come to Toila's school and just to learn the Estonian language there. But we still held them back because it's impossible if we bring them so many and mix this up, then we don't get the right education there, we don't. Of course, I wanted to ask you about this Järve High School thing. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] But you talked about it yourself. I think that without paying, and how can I say, without making certain concessions to the teacher's frame, we can't get these people, the teachers. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U471	Thank you. I totally agree with you. It's probably gonna need some extra help. As I said, we are ready to support these Estonian-language schools, which already have children in other languages, with extra money to help these children with their language skills as quickly as possible, so that they can receive the best possible education in Estonian. The second question is certainly also how, for example, we can get teachers into today's Russian-speaking schools. Here, I think the state must also think very seriously about the motivation packages to encourage teachers. I know it's not just the money to attract teachers. For example, teachers certainly expect proper housing and other additional opportunities. We'll think about these issues. I know that the working group on education in Estonian will also discuss what this motivational package could be for teachers whom we would refer to work in Ida-Virumaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U472	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U473	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. There is no doubt that there must be an Estonian-language education in Estonia. We've had 30 years to deal with it. You mentioned 2035 here. Is this not too long to take into account all our needs and opportunities? When do you think there would be a real chance to switch to Estonian? Would it be possible to do this sooner? How's your feeling?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U474	Thank you. Indeed, there are many prerequisites for the transition to education in Estonian, including the existence of the same teachers and teachers with the right skills, who can teach children in other languages in Estonian. This also requires training teachers, new teachers, not only can career changers be re-educated. It takes time, methodologies and teaching tools [development] and training people takes time. Is that going to be 2035? I think that's possible sooner. If this is what we have agreed and society really contributes to this, then it will be possible in the past. After all, we can see that attitudes in themselves are actually in favour of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U475	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U476	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Minister, thank you very much. According to the latest survey, 17% of non-Estonians would like their children to study one hundred percent in Estonian, 13% in Ida-Virumaa, and 20% of non-Estonians, 17% in Ida-Virumaa, would like it to be a school with an Estonian language of instruction, where there is an in-depth study of Russian. In addition, the latest study shows that 81% of Estonians and 79% of non-Estonians would like their children to study in one school and together. In addition, every parent and child has the constitutional right to study at the school and in the language they want. This means that the trend that colleagues on the other side of the Chamber seem, call a problem, does not end. Could you, in a few words, discuss in more detail what support mechanisms you intend to implement in schools with an Estonian language of instruction in the near future to help smooth this trend?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U477	Thank you. Yes, we have discussed that those schools with 10% and more children in other languages would receive a bigger bounty so that they could offer Estonian lessons in smaller groups, so that those children in other languages who may not have come from the Estonian-language kindergarten and whose language skills are not sufficient could offer Estonian language teaching as quickly and intensively as possible, so that they would not be left behind in the Estonian-language educational institution. I, too, have heard these stories, how in the sixth grade there is a student in other languages who does not actually speak Estonian properly, and that means that it is not possible that he could have done well with his studies. Such situations should not exist in our education system. At the same time, it is very important that those Estonian-speaking children, whose native language is Estonian, are also kept. I really think that Russian-language children should be able to learn Russian as their native language and Estonian-language children should, of course, be able to learn Estonian as their native language. This requires a change of curriculum. I think that we should do this, considering and seeing it, as you also indicated, that both communities are waiting on their own for children to learn together. But this can only be done in quality and well if the conditions are created, and it is our job to create these conditions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U478	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U479	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Secretary! I think we're all on your side of the front line here, and we understand the seriousness of these problems. But what is now happening in Kohtla-Järve is, unfortunately, still qualified as a genocide in Estonian education. I must confess to you that I remember Elsa Grechkina, Minister of Education from my youth. During his time, such Russification of Estonian schools was not encouraged, even the Soviet occupation power dared not do so. So it is actually extremely bad, especially in view of the fact that people's learning ability is limited to certain limits. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] If the number of Russians in the class exceeds 10% of a foreign nation, let's say, the quality of their studies suffers and the quality of Estonians suffers in the same way. Have you also studied or interviewed or received any assessment of how large the number of Russians may be at Estonian school to be able to...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U480	Mr. Reitelmann, your time has passed 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U481	Thank you for your question. You know, this Järve school, which is really in a very difficult situation, has done well despite this difficult situation, Järve school students have excelled with strong results. For example, Järve school students arrive at the Kohtla-Järve state gymnasium and do well there. These have been inhumane efforts by this school family to provide as good an Estonian-language education as possible for children with limited resources, both in other mother tongues and in Estonian-language children. So I cannot accept that this result was somehow bad. Indeed, Järve school children arrive very nicely at the state gymnasium.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U482	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U483	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I am very pleased to hear that you are talking in part about what our group representatives have already spoken in the previous composition of the Riigikogu. Indeed, learning is largely behind teachers, educational resources and investments. It is good that, at least now, the Reform Party has also come to recognise it. But my question is a little different. If you speak Russian here, but also about directing children using English or English here to Estonian schools, Estonian schools, do you think that the ethnogenesis of Estonians as a nation has not yet finished and we are now going to a new circle of ethnogenesis in the globalised world? Or how is that to be understood?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U484	Thank you. I have recently been in contact with many, as you can imagine, school leaders and teachers, as well as with young people, as well as with those young people who are studying with young people of other nationalities. Actually, they're very pleased. I don't know, I haven't seen young people who say that I'm somehow disturbed by the fact that my penguin or a child sitting behind me speaks some other language as a native language. Fortunately, our young people are tolerant people, and they have also grown in an environment where there is no interethnic grudge like the one previously described by your colleague when Estonians and Russians fought in some way at school. It caused tensions at that time, obviously, but today no more... There is, of course, a school-puss, but school-puss is whatever its nationality is. That's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U485	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U486	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. We understand that a Russian teacher will not teach Russian children in Estonian. Therefore, in order to achieve the desired result by 2035 there will be a need for a new pool of teachers, but we already have the topic of teachers' secondary growth, that there will be no teachers in Estonian schools. My question is how do you intend to ensure the availability of sufficient numbers of Estonian-language teachers in Russian schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U487	Thank you. I'm looking at the numbers. In the Russian-language educational institution, 21500 young people, almost 8000 young people in the immersion school and over 5,000 young people in other languages are studying in the Estonian-language educational institution. I bring out these orders of magnitude to understand the scale. As I said in reply to Mrs Helme's question, indeed, it takes time. It takes time to train teachers and develop other supportive systems. We have indeed planned the European Union's instruments to develop methodologies to develop more teaching materials and to teach both teachers and adults more Estonian. Yes, it certainly requires effort and money, and I think it is important to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U488	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U489	Thank you. You are essentially talking about two different things: one is the transition to education in Estonian and the other is the so-called "single Estonian school" or the creation of mixed schools. For 17 years, the Reform Party was in power; you made absolutely no step towards the transition to education in Estonian. Now you have raised the shield to the creation of this "single Estonian school," or mixed schools, and here you are debilitatingly describing to us how terrible Russian children are because you have to learn Estonian as a native language. However, if they were to learn it simply as a foreign language, the situation would be even worse, because then they would never reach that level in order to learn the Estonian language. It will bring all children under development in absolute measure. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Is that what you think is the right way?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U490	Thank you. We're not going to create these mixed schools. We already have them. This is what we are talking about, that the parents of children in other languages increasingly prefer to place their children in an educational institution in the Estonian language year after year. For example, there are fewer and fewer adult-language kindergarten groups in kindergartens. In Jõhvi, I hope that when the "+1" program is complete, there will be no more only Russian kindergarten groups, only two on Kohtla-Järve. The parents of children in other languages clearly prefer either a language immersion methodology or an educational institution in Estonian. As I have said many times, these parents have carried out this reform, which the country has not dared to do in these years. The Reform Party has done that the upper secondary school grade went to over 40%: 60% to study. It also generated a lot of feedback, there was a lot of criticism. The question is, did they start from the right point of view? Couldn't you have started in kindergartens back then? At that point this decision was made that the upper secondary school has 40: 60 systems. Today we see that nothing really bad happened, these young people have done well. I think that if they already have a better knowledge of Estonian in comprehensive school, they will be able to do more and more well and reach our universities.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U491	Good Minister, thank you. No more questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U492	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, nice approaching midnight! As usual, we are discussing important matters here in the shadow of the night. In this more than a hundred-page report, I do not know, but I hope that the Minister has read it several times, and that my fellow Members, too, have interesting things. You can't talk about everything here. I asked about this Albert Schweitzer school in Hannover, Germany. The Turks, the Syrians and all the others who have been invited and come to Germany, and this is a positive example of how progress can be made. Before there was a violent group, as Kalle Grünthal Türi once felt in the third grade, there was nothing unique. But how has such a success story been achieved, which is also presented to us in the case of a single Estonian school? The Minister, of course, did not say where to implement this Albert Schweitzer model under the German-turkey programme. It's not all right, maybe Türi isn't good, but maybe Lasnamägi is good for some place. But that's it. Indeed, during the 30 years of independence, the Reform Party has spent most of its time in running the state line. But very little has been done in this area, and now, with a splash, it is like getting a result. This reminds us of what is happening now with the green turn: miraculously, to a new era, at the cost of what the miners of Ida-Viru County and the generations of oil shale are going to do next, is not all that matters. In itself, every language is a plus and cannot be said in any way, as if we were opposed to the acquisition of Estonian by people in other languages living in Estonia. But like I said, crazy sums of money have been put to sleep. Mrs Kersna's predecessor, Mailis Reps, who has long and many times held ministerial office, has told me several times that she does not know what amounts have been put to sleep to teach Estonian language and mind, but the result is very little. There are no images, there are no real shots, there are also mentalities in Ida-Virumaa, Lasnamäe and in many other places almost the same as at the end of the Soviet era. So the field of work is wide and the goal itself is excellent. Yes, it is the Reform Party and Estonia 200 as a joint project to go where. But that's it. My colleague Jaak White was talking about the new immigrants here. If you look at the entire group that is studying, there are some 150,000 people, 80% Estonians, 19% Russian, 1% English, but in the case of new immigrants, this section of cake is quite different: 52% Estonian, 42% Russian and 6% English. This category, this group, is quite problematic, but at the same time I do not want to say that I should not have to deal with it. But there's one small one, but there's one small one. In my opinion and in our view, Estonia is, or should at least be, a nation state. And the thoughts set out in the preamble to the Constitution are not out of date, at least for me and for us. Although it is easier not to deal with these difficult things, but to bring in cheap labour, but which country is it, is it an Estonian state?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U493	Do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U494	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U495	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U496	Thank you. And this heading towards a unified Estonian school, this experiment, which many think is a concern, isn't it an experiment with Estonian language and Estonian children? Experiments of great magnitude have been conducted throughout history, but it seems to me and us that maybe such an experiment shouldn't be dealt with right now. Moreover, when Estonian children are born without shame, the priority is not to raise the number of Estonians and to raise and strengthen Estonian minds, but to place different children in a single boiler, all of whom are nice and learning and successful for them. But what about them? That is a question in itself, and that is why we asked this question here. Of course, the Minister does not know the answer either, nor do we. But we'd be more careful. Besides, I would remind you that in Estonian school at all, the number of hours of a very large number of substances has been significantly reduced when compared to the times of 30 years ago. As a naturalist, I know that there are practically no hours, knowing nature approaches zero. In the case of Estonian language and literature, I have just consulted a good colleague: the number of hours has also fallen dramatically. I was asked to tell you that Estonian literature in the so-called upper secondary school may suffer the most, but there really comes a deeper understanding of Estonian and Estonian culture. So, in fact, these problems at school are much wider. This is only one aspect that is currently being pursued in a campaign under the leadership of the Reform Party. But since this is a long period and the next Riigikogu elections are not so long now, I hope that corrections can also be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U497	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U498	Thank you, manager. Dear Minister, I get the impression that, on the one hand, we are solving old troubles, the same trouble of Elsa Grechkina when everyone was flooded with Russian, and we have not been able to solve this problem yet. I remember the panic at my school, even the deserving communists were panicked that the school wanted to turn into Russian because immigration was so massive. The fight for the survival of the Estonian school came by all means, right here in northern Tallinn. We haven't solved these Elsa Grechkina problems yet, but we're gonna have new problems. I was shocked when I looked at the entrance information of the University of Tartu. 26 English language curricula. Welcome to the National University! 26 English language curricula. What kind of nations are there? What kind of nations are there? It's like a university in Moscow called Lumumba. It is no longer an Estonian national university. Excuse me, it's high time we put a stop to this mess! Yet, good Minister, there was also good news that it would not at least pay them income support. There are limits to building a university in Lumumba. In Estonia, the problem of Elsa Grechkina is that there are Indian, Nigerian and other exotic communities who have not only complete linguistic ignorance towards Estonia, but also cultural ignorance. They are not fit for our food; they are not suitable for our food in kindergarten; there must be two lines: Muslims and other children. We're in a hundred troubles with these new immigrants. We can't even teach them the language. And the cultural conflict that comes with it, and family migration, which tends to double every year! Estonian language studies are drawn together at the University of Helsinki. Finnish language studies are completed at the University of Tartu. Brotherhood, I can tell. But I'll read to you what's waiting for us. What has happened in Helsinki, what has happened in Finland? I compare: the indigenous people, the Sami people, spoke 2008 in 2020. It's a primitive nation. It's an indigenous nation of unforgettable times. But in 2017, 26,000 people already spoke Arabic in Finland, and in just a few years' time, over 34000 people in 2020. What a fantastic growth! That's what you want in Estonia, that's why you're fighting against the Aliens Act. Teach this Arabic instead of Estonian and Finnish! Somali in Finland: when I was at the University of Helsinki, there were 2,000 Somalis, in 1992, and the street picture was quite exotic, but today there are 22000 Somali speakers. Two thousand became twenty-two thousand. What are they doing? A woman's circumcision. A new culture came to earth. This is a major problem in Finland now. In Finnish panel regions, Finnish children learn Somali, not the other way around, because Finns are being pushed out of it. Is that what you expect us to do? Kurdish: from 13000 to 15000. And I would remind you that 2,000 people speak Sami. The number of Vietnamese speakers has jumped to 11000, the number of Chinese speakers to 13000, the number of Persian and Farsi speakers to 15000 in Finland. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U499	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U500	How do you fit these people, all these exotic communities, culturally and linguisticly? I have no faith in you. You can't do this. Even Elsa Grechkina couldn't rearrange them, not even Brezhnev, not even Androkov. Don't take over duties. That is why I call on you to maintain the Estonian cultural space and language space. Nobody's gonna start a tooth on it, by the way, as romantic messages as you're gonna send us. You do not control these communities, you do not control them linguistically or culturally. They still bring in mysterious customs from the deserts, still bring in women's circumcision, still bring in honour killings, still bring in all the gruesome customs from Egypt, from the Arabian deserts. Do not do this and hold a beautiful Estonian language! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-07_U501	Ladies and gentlemen, the story is now that it has already struck all those clocks in our town at midnight. This means that we must consider today's sitting closed. We'll pick it up tomorrow at 10:00. Our Rules of Procedure stipulate that on Monday we will be working until 00:00. I wish you a beautiful night. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00.
