ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-18_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the Monday session of the second working week of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu. Due to the current situation, we will be conducting this in the form of a remote hearing. I took off the mask so that those who participate on the Internet might be a little easier to understand if there were any problems with the connection. First of all, there is the handing over of drafts and enquiries. Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-18_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2011, the largest election campaign, i.e. the Riigikogu election campaign, was reported to have costed between 0.5 and 1.5 million euros. We all know that it is actually possible to bring your worldview, your thoughts and programmed ideas to people at a much lower cost and also to explain them. In some ways, it is a senseless waste of taxpayers' money, even so you can say, because 67 to 91% of the party's budget is state support. But there's definitely another side. Unfortunately, so much spending on electoral campaigns may tip political parties, or even political parties, into a corrupt path and to trade with influence, but that is what we do not really need for anyone. Therefore, allow me, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, to hand over the draft decision of the Riigikogu entitled "Proposal for the Government of the Republic," the content of which is, in short, to reduce political corruption, i.e. to limit election costs and the volume of election adverts in the case of elections to the European Parliament, local government elections, elections to the Riigikogu and referendums. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-18_U3	Thank you. Next, please speak to Erki Savisaare.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-18_U4	Thank you, Mr President. Good fellows! The Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu and the Committee on Rural Affairs decided by consensus at their joint session, including on 12 January, to give the Riigikogu to the procedure of the Riigikogu the decision of the Riigikogu "Proposaling the Government of the Republic to determine the volume of aquaculture on the high seas." On the basis of a mandate from the Commission, we will hand over a draft decision proposing to the Government of the Republic a strategic objective to bring the volume of offshore aquaculture to an increase of at least 10000 tonnes over the next five years and to encourage and support the use of modern and innovative technologies in aquaculture, on the basis of the principle that settlement material is cultivated in land-based fisheries and that development does not undermine the status of the marine area and does not jeopardise the achievement of good status. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-18_U5	Thank you. Next, I would like to ask Mrs Heili Tõnisson, the representative of the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-18_U6	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is initiating enforcement proceedings today to amend the Code and in this connection to amend other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Justice in the proceedings of the draft law. The draft has been transmitted electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-18_U7	Thank you. On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted three drafts and the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their future procedure in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. And now, ladies and gentlemen, we are conducting a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-18_U8	There are 90 members of the Riigikogu, missing 11. Next, we will go to the clarification and approval of this week's agenda. There are very, very many changes compared to the original schedule approved by the board. Priit Onion's got a procedural question, isn't he? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-18_U9	Thank you. We have a problem that one of our colleagues can't access the information system. Can I ask for a break before the vote on the agenda? Or at what point could technical assistance come and help a member of our group to get in and take part in today's session? How should I act as leader of a group so that a person can attend a session? He's working on the problem right now, and our IT department is trying to help him get a chance to attend the hearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-18_U10	Thank you. Well, then, let's meet up and take a little break so that others who may have problems can solve them. Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-18_U11	Ladies and gentlemen, Break's over. We will proceed with the specification and approval of the agenda. The Social Democratic Party Group and Riigikogu member Raimond Kaljulaid have proposed that the first reading of the draft Act amending the Social Welfare Act that they have initiated be excluded from the agenda of today's sitting. The Committee on Finance has proposed that the second item on the agenda of the Wednesday session of this working week be deleted, the second reading of the draft Act 239 amending the VAT Act and the Customs Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The Committee on Culture has proposed to remove the third and fourth items on the agenda of the Wednesday session of this working week, i.e. the Education Development Plan 2021-2035, as well as the discussion on the R &amp; D, innovation and entrepreneurship agenda 2021-2035. The Committee on Social Affairs has proposed to remove the fifth item from the agenda of the Wednesday session of this working week, the first reading of the Bill of Amendment to the Family Benefits Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. The Committee on the Environment has proposed to remove seven and eight items from the agenda of the Wednesday session of this working week; these are the first reading of the Act amending the General Part of the Environmental Code Act and other Acts (replication of the Environmental Register Act) 292 and the first reading of the Bill 302 on Accession to the Protocol of 2010 to the International Convention on Liability and Compensation for Damage in the Sea of Hazardous and Harmful Substances (HNS-Convention) initiated by the Government of the Republic. In conclusion, today's agenda item 2 and Wednesdays 1 and 6 will remain on our agenda this week. Together with these amendments, I shall vote on the approval of the agenda for the second working week of the V session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. The vote has begun.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-18_U12	There are 74 members of the Riigikogu, 3 against and 1 abstention. The agenda has been adopted and the vote is closed
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-18_U13	Let's go to the first item today, or rather the only item on the agenda. This is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Courts initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I'll remind you of our procedures. First of all, the representative of the commission will be present for up to 20 minutes. Thereafter, any member of the Riigikogu may also ask questions with a length of one minute. Mr Hanno Pevkuri, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as rapporteur. Please! We can't hear you. We can't hear you, Hanno. Is there any way we can signal Hanno Pevkur that we can't hear him? Kalle Grünthal, is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-18_U14	The situation has now arisen with Mr Pevkur, as was the last case last week when Mr Pikhof did not come to submit the remote draft. At the moment, the situation is exactly the same where Hanno Pevkur has not come to submit the remote draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-18_U15	It's a little different. Mr Pevkur has a very clear desire to present it, but there are small technical problems with it. Let's hope they work out. Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-18_U16	Yeah, hello! I just called Hanno, and now Hanno's coming down. So in that sense, it's going to be nicely reported.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-18_U17	Good. Thank you. Hanno and I also had an agreement that he would be in this house, and if it wasn't possible to give his speech on the long road, he'd come to this hall. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to wait a little while. Yeah, I guess we'll have to wait a while. Hanno Pevkur has arrived. Good. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-18_U18	Okay. If the technique doesn't help, the fast legs will help. Ladies and gentlemen, Can we get started? Are you okay? We'll need a map on the spot, too. Right. We study every day. Is it okay now? It's okay. Okay, let's do it faster. I would like to remind you that this is a draft concerning the holding of the House of Judges and that it is possible to hold the session electronically, given everything that is happening around us. We did the first reading on 16 December. No amendments were received by the deadline for amendments. When we started discussing this issue again in the Commission, the Ministry of Justice wanted to make some clarifications, namely to clarify the possibility of voting either electronically or in writing. In the same way, we discussed the proposal of the Ministry of Justice on how best to formulate it. While they initially suggested that it could be worded as "using electronic or online channels," on a proposal from the Commission, we asked the Ministry of Justice to clarify once more what practice is developing in the legal language. After this debate, we also stated in the Commission that this wording could be as agreed in the spring, if you remember, in the process of dealing with the laws on non-profit organisations and companies. So the wording "by electronic means" was left. Consequently, we made some clarifications in the Commission. It was decided to supplement paragraph 21 with the following wording: "The House of Judges may also take place, in whole or in part, by electronic means. "And paragraph 41: "Votes and elections may be held by ballot paper, by electronic means, in writing or in any other manner provided for in the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice." These amendments were accepted by all members of the Commission. We adopted them by consensus, and we proposed putting the second reading on today's day. Since this is an urgent proposal and not an ounce of anyone's political desire, but a practical concern, we also decided to make a third reading this week, namely Wednesday. That's all there is. Please support the completion of the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-18_U19	Thank you, dear waitress. Looks like there's no questions for you. Is there a desire to open negotiations? There is no wish to negotiate. Let us examine the amendments together. Amendment 1, tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, takes full account of the position of the commission. Amendment 2, tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the position of the lead committee, is to be taken fully into account. The amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 298. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-18_U20	Now a free microphone follows. If anyone wants to register for speaking in a free microphone, it can be done after a hammer hit. But there is no wish to speak. I thank everyone. The sitting is adjourned. I wish all my colleagues who have fallen ill a speedy recovery. Have a good day.
