ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U1	Good fellows! Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the Monday session of the second working week of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It is no surprise to anyone in this hall that the price of electricity has been rising very strongly for some time. Last Wednesday, we tried to ask the Prime Minister about what the government was going to do to ease the rise in prices for people and businesses. The Prime Minister told us very rightly about the long term, and certainly a long plan is important, and those measures that have been taken to support renewable energy in particular are certainly sensible in the long term. Unfortunately, we did not hear from the Prime Minister any plan regarding the ability of people and businesses to cope now, immediately and in the near future. Since Parliament will certainly have the opportunity to take its initiative here, we will do so. I hereby transfer, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party and on behalf of Raimond Kaljulaid, the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity. Its content, in short, is that on 1 May 2022, electricity excise duty should rise almost 4.5 times, according to the current law, but the Socialist proposal is that this excise duty should certainly not rise in these circumstances in order to mitigate to some extent the rise in electricity prices. This is compensated by the additional VAT received, which is inevitably due to the significant increase in electricity prices. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U3	Thank you. As I have the information, it has already been digitally delivered electronically. Today we don't even know if we're shaking hands or being digitally handed over. All right, let's go. I ask for the Riigikogu's speech chair in Jevgeni Ossinovski.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We'll continue on the power wave. The Social Democrats have digitally issued a draft of the Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic to the Riigikogu, the content of which is also simple, clear and of course good. Namely, exempt all Estonian consumers from the renewable energy fee next year. Indeed, electricity prices must be taken into account, in a very short period of time, for their multiplication. Both domestic consumers and companies, who are indeed in most cases Estonian electricity consumers, have been hit by this. It is clear that the state must take steps... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Look at the excitement, it's good! It's good, it's supposed to be exciting. In this situation, the state must take steps to protect both Estonian consumers and the Estonian economy. And if, of course, the state cannot regulate the price of the stock exchange, then it can and must regulate the tax components. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] The electrical excise was already mentioned by the previous speaker. Another important component is, indeed, the renewable energy fee, which, together with VAT, is EUR 13 per MWh this year, about a tenth of the Estonian electricity bill. And this can be reduced by the same quota revenue as the additional revenue received by the State under high price conditions. This is about EUR 100 million, which is the total amount of renewable energy subsidies. That is how much renewable energy is collected from consumers. In order to exempt all consumers from the renewable energy charge, it is necessary to transfer this amount from the state budget to Elering. Next year it will be possible to ensure that the renewable energy charge for all consumers is exactly EUR 0. I think this is an important relief in this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U5	Thank you very much. Thank you. And let's keep going. I ask the Riigikogu Chair Urmas Reinsalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U6	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, The united opposition works smoothly. Indrek's draft we already passed on 8 April, [I am thinking] of the Fatherland, and I am pleased that the Social Democrats have come fully behind it. Secondly, the draft proposed by Evgeni is actually very timely, very necessary, because it concerns the full compensation of renewable energy charges for all our consumers, our businesses, our households, from this additional revenue from the CO2 quota that has been received into the state budget. The proposal is also presented to the Government of the Republic by the smiling and happy team of the Fatherland. But that's not all. We have actually heard from the government today in the Committee on State Budget Control: there are no views on how to support consumers in the rapid rise in electricity prices and, secondly, how to reform this CO2 quota system. We heard the Minister for Economic Affairs sent a letter to Brussels asking the Brussels queens and masters to come to our aid and tell us how the government of the Estonian state must stand up for its consumers, its businesses, its country. No! No one, dear government, frees us from the responsibility of managing their country. Therefore, the Isamaa proposal is specific: the government must come up with clear proposals on how to reform the CO2 quota system so that it does not create excessive pressure on domestic consumers or our business environment. And thirdly, it is very important to foresee that the next year's budget will be the next year's budget! It is presented that it is possible to cancel all increases in excise duties, both on electricity and on fuels, which are projected for the next year. So work with us all across borders, across opposition- coalition lines! Now we must be out for many, show the people of Estonia that we can and will act on a common idea, a common line. Good luck to all of us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U7	I'm sorry for a second. Is there one bill or three, good Urmas?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U8	Three in one. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] There are three proposals to the government and I'm sure our government will be able to do the so-called multitasking...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U9	Got it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U10	...so he can't think of just one thing at a time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U11	Thank you. I now ask Mrs Heili Tõnisson, the representative of the Government of the Republic, for a speech chair in the Riigikogu. Also, let me congratulate you, if I am not mistaken now, on the 30th anniversary of the restoration of the Women's Home Guard, everyone in the Women's Home Guard. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U12	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! Today, the Government of the Republic initiates two draft laws and submits a draft decision of the Riigikogu. First, the draft law amending the building code and related other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure in the proceedings of the draft law. Second, the draft law amending the National Budget Act 2021. And thirdly, the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the approval of the State's summary report for the financial year 2020. When dealing with these two drafts in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance. All three drafts have been transmitted electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U13	Thank you. Now, good colleagues, I have adopted six drafts on behalf of the Riigikogu Board. According to our Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Good colleagues, we're conducting a presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U14	79 members of the Riigikogu registered for the post, no 22.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U15	We now come to our next topic, namely the specification of the agenda and the adoption of the agenda. In particular, the Social Affairs Committee has proposed that the first item on the agenda of the Wednesday sitting of this working week be removed from the agenda, namely the third reading of the draft law amending the Employment Contracts Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. Dear colleagues, along with this amendment, I would like to put this week's agenda to the vote. Before we do that, we'll also make sure that we invite our good colleagues to this hall. But before this procedural question, personally, good Helir, it's a pleasure to see you here! Helir-Valdor Seeder, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U16	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Unfortunately, I really couldn't attend for health reasons last week, but it seems that this hall has changed beyond recognition. I have a number of procedural issues concerning the decisions taken last week and, as it turns out, the procedure for the drafts scheduled for this week's agenda. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] First of all, on 13 September this year the Riigikogu adopted a draft law amending the collective agreement law and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. After the second reading, the substantial substantive changes made to the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu are contrary to the rules of procedure of the Riigikogu. Therefore, this law adopted is contrary to the law of our home and working arrangements. And I would like to point out, Mr President of the Riigikogu and the President of the sitting, this is a procedural question. We're almost there, Jürgen Ligi. In particular, Siret Kotka, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, has proposed to amend the entry into force provisions of this law after a second reading in the committee. And indeed, the Riigikogu has gone down this road that, after a second reading, if amendments cannot be tabled anymore under the Rules of Procedure, this draft law has been adopted with these amendments. I would like to draw attention to the Commission's reasoning and the interpretation of the Social Affairs Committee officials. The Commission official replied that although the grammatical interpretation is not a normal technical change of norm, it is a technical change of purpose, which is due to the slow pace of the procedure of the Riigikogu and is in line with the will of the Social Affairs Committee. Now that's the precedent we're making here! Now, onward, the second draft, which is also in the process and which is, I would like to draw attention to this week's agenda. We are talking about a draft law amending the Law on Electronic Communications, the Building Code and the State Fees Act. This week's Wednesday is the third reading, and here too, after the second reading the Commission has proposed a substantive amendment concerning the date of entry into force. This is what the Commission calls for to update the date of entry into force, which is a technical amendment which is permitted between the second and third readings of the draft. I would point out that the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu has assessed it and proposed an option to start processing the draft from the beginning, as it would be [other] contrary to procedural economics and unnecessarily restricting the decision-making power of the Riigikogu. That is the Commission's position. The Riigikogu's right... which we have... the Legal and Analytical Department has assessed that... I'm about to say the exact wording...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U17	I have a request, let's not hurry now!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U18	Yeah, I'll tell you in a second. The Legal and Analytical Department has found that such an amendment to the entry into force provisions at the third reading as a technical specification is not in accordance with § 110 (1) of the Home and Working Procedures Act, as it is not merely a linguistic or technical amendment. However, the Commission has found that this is reasonable as a result of procedural economics. Due to procedural economics, this makes sense! This is the second bill, and I would like to point out that it is on the agenda of this week. That's a gross violation of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act! The third draft or, rather, the decision of the Riigikogu, which has also been adopted in contravention of the current procedure, concerns the draft submitted and processed by the Cultural Committee adopted by the Riigikogu on 13 September, which concerns important cultural objects of state origin. There has also been a major debate here last week in its proceedings, and it has also been adopted in violation of domestic and operational procedures. Such an amendment cannot be amended in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act after the second reading, where the large hall has accepted an amendment tabled by one political group [more]. But after that, the Committee on Culture meets, essentially changes the content and wording of this amendment and simply introduces it by final vote. Such precedents I honestly do not remember about the earlier work practice of the Riigikogu. Now they've come like Vändra to the lumberboards. And all three cases are grossly contrary to the law of the house and the rules of procedure. I would point out that they can be protested by members of the Riigikogu, both within ten days of the draft decision at the Supreme Court and with the law of the Chancellor of Justice. And I now have a question for the President of the Riigikogu. Which legal provisions were invoked and which provision of the law is intended to be invoked in the case of the draft to be processed this week, which is scheduled on Wednesday as the second item on the agenda? How will such changes be introduced? Please refer exactly to the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act: which provisions have you relied on?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U19	Thank you. It was a sincere wish to tell you that I am pleased to see you here. And the answers. First of all, this first and third question, which concerned September 13th, is also one of the Committee on Culture. As you know, procedural questions must be asked at this point in time and place. But I certainly agree on that. I think we will have a meeting together, and then the Commission will certainly be able to provide answers to these two questions. Now this second question, which concerns this Wednesday, draft 301 on which you asked, was indeed on the agenda of the House last week. We had to discuss this on 15 September, but since the documents on which the debate was based had not been made available to the members of the Riigikogu by the time prescribed by the law, the President of the sitting did not open the item on the agenda and the discussion of the draft was postponed to the next working week in accordance with § 73 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, that is to say, the week in which it is confirmed, the second item on Wednesday. Jevgeni Ossinovski, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U20	Thank you. First of all, I share Mr Seeder's concerns and it is even more serious. There are still a large number of these drafts in the various committees. In the Committee on the Environment, for example, we had an attempt to do the same thing at the moment, fortunately, we have removed it from the table with exactly the same argument that what we are going to do now, and we are not going to go back to the law now. In Parliament's work, the procedure is the foundation and it is completely unacceptable to break the rules of the house and the rules of procedure for some kind of procedural economics efficiency. As the Constitution's comments, as well as the various courts, have confirmed, the violation of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act renders the law unconstitutional if it has been violated in a way that distorts the decision-making process of the legislator in the Riigikogu. Clearly in this way, in the third reading, to amend the provisions in substance, the time of their entry into force, which is one of the most important things in one draft, the time of its entry into force, of course it distorts the decision-making process. Amendments to the drafts can be made by means of amendments in accordance with the parliamentary process, but no one can table amendments before the third reading. So, in this sense, for me, there is no question here of a completely unconstitutional undertaking. And the question, Mr President, is whether the Bureau could say to all the other committees, in addition to the fact that draft 301 should be removed from the agenda, that all committees should stop introducing this practice in their committee, which is clearly unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U21	Thank you. The answer, as far as I have the information. First of all, of course, proposals for inclusion on the agenda and for proceedings in committees are organised by the Commission. Speaking of this 301 SE, the information I have today is that this proposal was discussed between second and third readings. None of the members of the Commission protested that, as far as I know. And when we discussed the agenda in the Bureau, there was also a consensus to put it on the agenda. Now, the dates changes, which are discussed. If they have been changed between second and third readings, then it is true, I think, as Helir-Valdor Seeder read to us, the lawyers interpret it differently. And if there are still questions on these issues, of course I think that we must also continue to debate it here in the Riigikogu. Procedural question, Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U22	Thank you. Of course, we can hold different meetings. I am fully willing to come and consult with you on how to improve the quality of the Riigikogu's work for the future. But that doesn't solve this problem in an operational way. The Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu provides for the possibility of protesting a member of the Riigikogu if there is a breach of the Rules of Procedure Act. And Paragraph 74 (4) states: the President of the sitting shall settle the protest or answer the question without delay. So I have a request not to hold consultations here to resolve this problem, but to resolve it here immediately and immediately. All the more so because this is the agenda for this week and one [such] draft is still coming. I'll ask you again. What legal provision was invoked when these changes were introduced after the second reading? And has the Riigikogu Board discussed these cases? These are very exceptional cases and are contrary to the Rules of Procedure Act. Have you drawn attention to this, and have you discussed it? That is my second question, in addition to what paragraph was relied on. The third question is: why has the Board of the Riigikogu overlooked the observation and observation made by the Legal and Analytical Department that this is a proposal and procedure contrary to the rules of procedure and the rules of procedure? You just said there were different opinions. The assessment of the Legal and Analytical Department of the Riigikogu is a very authoritative assessment. That's my third question. And the fourth is the question and the proposal on the agenda. On Wednesday, it is not possible to discuss the draft law amending the Law on Electronic Communications, the Building Code and the Law on State Fees initiated by the Government at third reading, which is analogous to two [prescribed] drafts, both constitutional and domestic. I have a suggestion to exclude this from the agenda because we simply cannot discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U23	Thank you. First of all, in response to the last proposal: of course, you can make this proposal, you have done it, and that is what this Chamber must also discuss, your proposal to exclude 301 from the agenda of the SE on Wednesday. Now, you asked if we had discussed this, those three [themes] of you, then yes, I remember that, in my opinion, on Tuesday last week, the Bureau really conducted a debate on the cultural objects of the Committee on Culture [concerned]. Now, when you ask what amendments have been added under the law and under the section, I think the Commission has relied on § 110 (1) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, which says: the commission prepares the final text of the draft for the third reading, which will be accompanied by linguistic and technical clarifications after the second reading has been completed. I think it's based on it. Siret Eagle, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U24	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! As Mr Seeder here pointed out the Social Affairs Committee and the draft law 383, which have already passed the third reading, I feel that I should describe a little as the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee why the Social Affairs Committee made such a decision. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Committee on Social Affairs actually considered three possible interpretations. Firstly, send the text of the end of the second reading to the third reading of the draft. Secondly, send the text of the completion of the second reading to the third reading of the draft and amend, by means of a separate draft law, the provision for the entry into force of the Act amending the collective agreement and other laws at the time when 383 SE has been adopted as [the law] but has not yet entered into force. And thirdly, delete the inappropriate entry into force clause from the text of the third reading and implement § 108 of the Constitution, according to which the Act would enter into force on the tenth day following its publication in the State's Official Journal. The Commission assessed the content of the draft, in conjunction with the entry into force clause, by discussing whether it is a favourable or burdensome regulation. In any event, this is a favourable regulation because registered unemployed persons will receive an additional [payable] benefit or benefit of 60 days if the registered unemployment rate rises by more than 8,5% from July to the end of February. Fortunately, as the unemployment rate has not risen to this percentage, it does not result in a violation of anyone's rights. And then the Commission did. If the recorded unemployment rate had risen by more than 8.5% in the summer, the situation would have been completely different and the Commission would have kept the entry into force clause in the draft. But since this did not happen, we made a decision to that effect.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U25	Thank you for your explanation. Kristen Michal, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Helir-Valdor Seeder too, good to see you again! I'll explain a little. Heir now read a piece of some kind of memorandum or one opinion that was already unique or become a practice in this Chamber and presented it throughout the world [as one]. In fact, in the same opinion of one person in the Legal and Analytical Department, there is a possibility that, if the entry into force provisions are amended, this should be clarified and certainly a third-reading explanatory statement should be drawn up on the draft so that everyone can decide. Since I cannot address it from the remote at third reading as chairman of the committee, I will describe it by our group. Everyone can vote on this. 301 is undoubtedly a draft of great economic interest; there is no doubt about that. It includes the interests of both Huawei and the various law firms, no doubt, and the interests of our security partners. That's why I'm not so surprised that there's such a debate about it. But what the President of the Riigikogu referred to correctly is still the same law on home and working procedures and making technical changes to them. The alternative would have been to adopt this law retroactively. In retrospect, this would have been less favourable, resulting in all the effects that the legislator had not requested or taken into account in previous proceedings. In view of what the legislator has previously wanted, planned and wished to bring about, the same time remains, in fact, until the law enters into force. So I am of the opinion that this is a profoundly technical change. The original situation of the same law was maintained as far as possible in the proceedings. Realising the very great economic interests associated with this law, I am almost certain that this law will, in any case, find its way to court. I think the debate on this is reasonable in any case, but at this point only a piece of this memorandum was read out, and it did not give the right picture.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U27	Thank you for that explanation, too. A procedural question, Jevgeni Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U28	Thank you. Well, a few remarks. These explanations were nice, on the basis of procedural economics, which the Heads of Commission must clearly consider. But there are two other options and they have actually been implemented extensively in Parliament's [in practice]. If, for one reason or another, the content of the draft has gone wrong in the second reading, the reading has been completed because the text is not really legal. This has happened over the last ten years that I've been here, several times. Then there's a very simple procedure. The Commission will then reopen this same draft and make all three readings with a month or a half. After all, most disputes have been held, right, and where this joint part is, they're going through quickly, and that's it. This has been done in the past and could have been applied correctly this time. I would like to emphasise once again that there are still other drafts in many committees that are exactly the same: the second reading has been completed and, in fact, the dates of entry into force have passed. This solution actually exists. The second aspect is that you can't get behind the fact that there's nothing to do now, see, now the dates of entry into force have passed. In fact, it was also possible to adopt these drafts in law at the time of the entry into force of the second reading. To this end, additional meetings or extraordinary sessions should have been held in June. This could have been done, the chairmen of the committees should have requested it if these drafts were so important. And, of course, the Riigikogu would have come together and adopted these amendments correctly, according to the law. Finally, as Mr Michal also pointed out that the arguments of those people who want to declare it unconstitutional in court are likely to be strengthened by this type of procedure in a particular draft, I do not think that the state should give a signal in its proceedings that we did our job so badly that it can now be that Parliament has adopted it illegally and therefore must be rejected. This is not what I think Parliament should encourage in any way. There is an important distortion in this process and I am saying this because this decision, as we are currently dealing with these cases, has a precedent role, let us be honest, as is very often the case in Parliament. The comment of § 102 of the Constitution states that the biggest distortion of the parliamentary decision-making process is that part of the members of the Riigikogu are deprived of the right to make a decision [to make a decision]. There is no such composition at the moment, but we have had formations and there will certainly be more formations where not every political group has a representative in every committee. And then, in principle, the period of entry into force will be decided so that some political groups are not involved in this decision. And this is clearly not in accordance with the law on domestic and working arrangements.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U29	Thank you, too, for your comment or explanation. Yeah, it's one of the roads you described, which you can always choose to start processing again. And certainly this point of attention, too, that if there are six, seven or eight members in a political group, that of course means that there is no representation in any committee. Procedural question, Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U30	Thank you. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a percentage of unemployment, it is not a representation of economic interests, it is not a question of any of the cripples that we have here, in the light of the various speeches, but it is still how we deal with and what precedents we are creating. We all understand, I think, in this Chamber, that it was substantive and very important and fundamental amendments to these drafts. And as far as national cultural objects are concerned, there was a very simple solution. In the case of a draft decision, the second reading can be interrupted, there is no need to start over. Could have quietly interrupted second reading, the Committee on Culture could have made its amendment and introduced it in accordance with its home and rules of procedure. But to say that the sequence of objects is not a question of substance, whether we place one proposal in the fifth or third or the first, it is not a substantive but a technical or linguistic addition?! Come on, you can tell a kindergarten that way, but it really doesn't make sense to talk in this hall. This was a very substantive amendment and I would point out that such an amendment had not been tabled at all and could not be tabled at all. In fact, the amendment tabled by the Isamaa Group was amended and this second wording was simply voted in by a majority vote. Friends, this is not a technical norm, and this paragraph, to which the President of the Riigikogu referred, does not give such authority. It is very clear here: the commission prepares the final text of the draft for the third reading, in which it has introduced linguistic and technical clarifications after the second reading has been completed. Not the substantive details! And similarly, the dates of entry into force are very substantive. Throughout history, we remember different reforms when they enter into force, the deadline for the EVPs has been extended and so on. These have never been the norm technical things that have been smoothed by the passing text. These are substantive amendments. And let's face it, we're creating a precedent for the future. In the future, on the basis of these cases, after the second reading, the Commission may simply make proposals and they will no longer be able to vote in this large Chamber. That's the problem today. This is very serious! So I have a request to the President of the Riigikogu to take a break, to discuss this topic, to take a position on the agenda of this week, where there is one draft that is currently being challenged. I proposed to exclude it. Discuss this subject and then you can proceed to the hearing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U31	Thank you. I see no reason to take the chairman's break right now. Once again, the Commission has discussed this. When we are now talking specifically about this last question you have raised, 301 SE. The Commission has introduced changes to this. As I said, according to my information, no one in the Commission has protested either the opposition or the coalition. That is what the chairman of the committee must say, whether or not this is the case. And the Bureau has also decided to put it on the agenda for this week, as it moved forward from last week's agenda. Mart Networker, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U32	Thank you. My colleague, Mr Seeder, has proposed the deletion of the second item on Wednesday, 301 SE, from the agenda of this week. The Reform Party Group certainly does not agree with this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U33	Thanks for that. This was also a question raised by me, but our Home and Rules of Procedure Act does not really provide that possibility: § 54 (4). But thank you for that. Kristen Michal, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would point out that no one in the Commission protested. We were supposed to have an outing at the Commission's regular working hours, but we even canceled the exit where people were waiting for us. We have had an additional debate. The only one who did not send his representative and could not come himself was Sven Sester, Vice-Chairman of the Commission from Isamaa, who can speak for himself what their reasons were. But since the Riigikogu has created an opportunity to send a replacement to the Commission, if the subject is [important], it was not really the inability of the Fatherland to express its position. As regards the deadline for entry into force for draft 301, it is not really a substantive [question]. It would be substantive to deal with the date of entry into force if it changed the rights and obligations of the subjects or changed the will by which the draft was initiated, or if the implementation deadline in the course of the legislative process would be distorted. This is not the case at present, the original situation is maintained, the fact that the draft has been dealt with in the best possible way and with the transition to the most favourable situation for the subjects. In essence, it's very simple: if you move a 30 centimeter ruler 2 meters forward, it'll still be 30 centimeters. Try to understand, colleagues!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U35	Thank you for that explanation. Sven Sester, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would point out, having been on the Monday Commission, that the chairman of the Commission, Kristen Michal of the Reform Party, urged the Commission to reach an agreement on that day. And in fact, I think that the representative of the Fatherland was the only one who said that we should be guided in making this decision, not by the will that one or the other thinks, but by what recommendations we are given. And that's why we've turned to the Legal and Analytical Department. The chairman of the committee wanted to make decisions at the time, but since the general idea began to emerge in the committee that we should listen to the various parties, this led to the Commission's decision not being taken on Monday. As far as Tuesday's Commission decision is concerned, it does not really matter how much it is in favour or against, whether it is a consensus decision or whether the majority is privatising the minority. The question is whether the law is being enforced. A collective decision, even in the case of consensus, does not mean that if there is conflict with the law, it could still automatically be enacted or entered into force.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U37	Thank you for that explanation, too. Helir-Valdor Seeder, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U38	Thank you. You have now said repeatedly that no one in the Commission protested. But what does it matter or what does it mean? Does this mean that now this protest in the big hall is not in line with the rules of procedure and the rules of procedure, or is there anything invalid? That is the case, every member of the Riigikogu has the opportunity to protest in this large hall, and since the Commission has collectively gone against the law on domestic and working procedures, it is appropriate to draw attention to it in this large hall. Or have I misunderstood the rules of procedure and housekeeping?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U39	Thank you. No, you've got it perfectly right. I fully understand your protest. To one of the protesters I said that I did not consider it necessary for the President to take a break now and, on the other hand, I also expressed that it had been the decision or position of the commission to bring it into this Chamber of the Riigikogu. Your protests have been correct in every way. Kristen Michal, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I repeat: I understand the great economic interests of this draft and, as a result, the sitting that followed the preliminary debate, called the representative of the Analysis and Legal Department, read all the material, and followed the best recommendation on how to do it in such a way that every ambassador in the Chamber can take a decision either in favour or against it in the third reading. It exists in the explanatory memorandum, and it is certainly spoken of in the explanatory memorandum. And, of course, this does not give rise to a precedent, because the law on collective agreements has already been passed. As for the Fatherland, I honestly say that the Fatherland knew that it was the working hours of the Commission. Sven Sester knew this, but did not consider it necessary to send an alternate to this debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U41	Thank you for that explanation. Jevgeni Ossinovski, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U42	Indeed, in a completely consensual manner, people are able to commit illegal acts. But it doesn't make them legal in any way if it's done consensually. So that's not the argument that the Commission decided this way. The chairman of the committee is, of course, right that this is no longer a precedent, because the precedent was made in the Committee on Social Affairs last week. I really support what Mr Seeder has raised here. We should reach a systemic solution on this issue, including last week's error. I would argue that none of my colleagues outside the Committee on Social Affairs were really aware that this change had been made, it was not dealt with here, it was not justified, it was not explained. This would certainly have changed my voting behaviour on this draft if it had been clarified. We have worked as people on the basis of the law, knowing that no changes will be made to the draft before the third reading, and consequently there is no reason to start reviewing our views on the draft. If you have supported it at the end of the second reading, you will also support it in the third. But now it turns out that, in fact, between second and third readings, the drafts are essentially changing. This is a very fundamental change, which has nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure, but simply the inability of the coalition to manage its work. I think this is a very dangerous precedent in this situation and I certainly do not support it. And even less, I support this overdoing so that, uh, when the Commission did, let it go. That, I think, isn't correct in any way. In my opinion, this draft should be taken from the agenda this week, drawn up in principle [a position] that can and must not be taken before the third reading. That is so that this will continue to be clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U43	Thank you. As far as I am aware of this particular draft, where the date is a question, you are right in the sense that there are those lawyers who say that this is not a technical change, that Helir-Valdor Seeder has read the law on home and working procedures, and there are also those who say that it goes under it, it is classified under it. There are different approaches in this house, also in the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. Heiki Hepner, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U44	Thank you, good Chairman. My question is motivated by Mr Michal's explanation. He said that he had planned to explain to us in his group's presentation the reasons for this change. We know that one very important right for a member of the Riigikogu is that when the Commission presents its draft, it is possible to ask questions. Please tell me if a member of the Riigikogu would be entitled to ask questions to Michal if he explained the activities of the committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U45	Thank you. I understand our fellow official, Kristen Michal, meant that he would explain this at third reading during the negotiations. The Home and Rules of Procedure Act at the moment during the negotiations does not provide an opportunity to ask questions and answers. To be creative, which is sometimes in this Chamber, he sometimes gives the opportunity to rejoin. Procedural question, Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U46	Thank you, Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu, President of the sitting. Don't get your eye out here, and don't tell me that some people think so, and others think so, and others think it like there's a third way of thinking, like there's a room for discussion. No, it's not! There has been a very clear violation of the Law on Home and Working Procedures. And understand the responsibility you take. You are currently chairing this sitting, and it will all be a precedent in history, a verbatim. And perhaps later, in the course of the proceedings, your views will be analysed. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, if earlier it was quiet and in committee, it has now risen in this big hall and we are making this decision consciously. We are consciously voting in a large hall contrary to the law of domestic and working procedures. You can't vote on things that are against the law! It is something like that we can vote on where the bridge comes across the river, but the bearing capacity of the bridge is not going to be voted by politicians; it still has to be calculated by engineers. So let us not do this because we knowingly go against the Home and Working Procedures Act, which gives us the opportunity to protest later on these drafts and perhaps to consider them void afterwards. We're making a much bigger mess. Clearly, these are both substantive and, at times, ideological amendments that have been made during the procedure for various drafts. To reduce it to a linguistic and technical change is completely contradictory.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U47	Thank you. A procedural question, Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U48	Thank you. I'm really trying to finish with a procedural question, but I'm gonna have to do an introduction. Regrettably, this creativity has gone on here to the point that procedural answers are being submitted for a long time instead of questions. It's all "very clear" on the questioner's side. In my opinion, the dispute concerning this law on electronic communications is currently in this. The technical nature of the amendments is that the law cannot enter into force technically unless the date is changed. The calendar has gone so far. The substance of the draft does not suffer. This is purely an opportunity for the draft to enter into force technically. And that is how the Committee on Economic Affairs has actually made this decision, and in consensus. However, I still have the question whether I think we can go to the vote on the agenda at this time of random stretches. You'll be asked for answers that I don't think will affect your authority. There's no place you can interfere. Why don't we vote on the agenda?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U49	Thank you. I'm ready to do this as soon as we get a chance. But let's move on to procedural questions. Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U50	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I must draw your attention to the fact that you do not even agree to accept the protest, let alone give a procedural answer to procedural questions. You yourself have said that it is possible to look at this thing on the one hand and look at this thing on the other. It is proposed to take a break and find out which approach is competent from a procedural point of view. It is also my recommendation to take a break and find out this matter with the representatives of all the political groups, or to take a break and give the political groups the opportunity to gather and discuss the matter with each other, instead of creating a situation where, simply by force, all the opponent issues and procedural suspicions are suppressed and the coalition's voices are driven over these protests. So my suggestion is to take the procedure into account, take the protests into account and take a break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U51	Thank you. Since there was a difference of opinion on at least one issue concerning these cultural objects last Tuesday, the Bureau discussed it. And the board didn't think there was any breach of procedures. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U52	Thank you, good Chairman. I'm still a little bit confused about what to say softly. Kristen Michal said he was going to go and speak in a chair on behalf of the Commission and explain. At that, I had a legitimate expectation of asking him questions, just as, in principle, it is always possible after reading the first or second reading. You explained that no-no, he still goes and speaks only on behalf of the Reform Party Group. Well, in my opinion, the Reform Party alone cannot represent the entire Commission even if it bears the responsibility of the chairman of the committee. And this talk is not really good enough for anything to be done. Three months would actually have been time to act. If the chairman of the committee really had a heartache and he wanted to, then he could have asked the Riigikogu to meet and adopt this draft calmly after Midsummer Day. So here's my clear question. If I cannot ask questions, then, on the one hand, my rights have been violated, on the other hand, if no one at all represents these changes in the Commission, how can it be interpreted?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U53	Thank you. As you know, at third reading, neither the government nor the representative of the committee is present by the Riigikogu in defending the bill. The only option really is for the representatives of the political groups, if the political groups wish to do so in the negotiations. Jevgeni Ossinovski, procedural question, please! And so much more so that the rules of procedure of the committees are certainly not organised by the Chairman of the Riigikogu, which is organised by each committee itself. Jevgeni Ossinovski, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U54	Thank you. First of all, Jürgen Ligile: in addition to the procedural question, the same paragraph provides for the possibility of a procedural protest. This is what the vast majority of people here have done. Secondly, that's what Mr. Hepner really has to do with the nonsense. The rules of procedure and the rules of procedure do not provide for a substantive debate at third reading, as the assumption is that the draft will not change until the third reading. But now it turns out that the bill can change before the third reading. If the committee presidents are in a hurry to implement a draft and do not find a legal way to do so, they will make technical amendments to the standard. Before the second reading, there is no need to worry at all about the substantive amendments to be dealt with. They could be left there for the third reading, so that there would be no discussion. I'm sure this isn't normal. The question, Mr President, is that in what way do you... I understand that your view now is that you support the Chair of the Economic Committee on these explanations and that this draft should remain on the agenda on Wednesday. At the moment, you do not want to take a break to discuss this political precedent or the precedent for the work of the Riigikogu. What's your vision and action plan for Wednesday at 14:00? Because it is clear that all these questions will not be resolved by themselves until this vote comes. In this vote, people will be able to express their views on this draft. I, for example, would like to express my position on this draft, but as it stands, I must express my position on this procedure, which I do not want to do. In the meantime, do you see a body of elders, a collection of lawyers coming together, or do I not know what format you foresee in order to resolve this political disagreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U55	Thank you. As I said, in the case of a draft, where it was also known that there was a difference of opinion, this [draft] concerned cultural objects, we discussed it on the board. Given today's number of procedural questions and protests, I think this should certainly be discussed in the days to come. These forms are different. Helir-Valdor Seeder, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U56	Thank you. It seems that my protest is a hopeless undertaking, which is why I promise it will be the last procedural question in this area that we are discussing here. But I ask you: do you really think that, for example, the increase in electricity, gas and other excise duties will take effect on 1 May next year or on 1 January 2023, is a technical, rather than substantive, change in the date of entry into force? Or, for example, the exemption from income tax on extraordinary pension increases or average pensions on 1 January 2023 or 2022, different dates of entry into force, that this is simply a technical issue that can be introduced in order to correct the draft after the second reading and voted in the final vote? As Chairman of the Riigikogu, do you really think that such changes to the deadlines for entry into force are not substantive? And for my colleague Jürgen Ligi, the simple solutions are. One is to start the draft [working] again. The second is that there are a number of drafts that can be amended urgently and in accordance with the law. It's been done. But it certainly doesn't make sense to go down the road to breaking the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U57	Thank you. First of all, I think it's pretty complicated or impossible to tie up different things. When you asked about these specific things, it is, of course, a substantive change. Whether the date is substantive or technical, this is what our Home and Working Procedures Act says that here is the decision-making seat of the Commission. The Governing Commission must take these decisions. Thank you. I shall then begin the preparation of the vote. Dear colleagues, together with the Social Affairs Committee's proposal, I would just like to remind you what it was: that on Wednesday, the first item, i.e. 361 SE, should be removed from the agenda of the sitting to the vote on the agenda of the second working week of the VI session. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U58	May I have your attention, please? With the result of 32, against 36, the agenda has not been confirmed. As a result, I'll take the manager's half-hour break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U59	Good fellows, the chairman's break is over. I'll take the manager's break for half an hour.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U60	Good fellows! The break taken by the manager is over. I really apologize to you. We are faced with a pretty difficult situation, which I think no one can remember in the Riigikogu's work placement [happened]. So let's keep taking a break. Director's break 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U61	Good fellows! The break taken by the President of the Riigikogu has ended. Now we are facing the next situation. In fact, we had the agenda to be approved for this week. And we remember that with the result of half 32, against 36, it didn't find any support. Then I took a break, and the body of elders gathered. The input from the Council of Elders, as well as the input from the Social Affairs Committee, is to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu and the Management Board of the Riigikogu has proposed a new agenda for this week. In short, points 1 and 2, 361 SE and 301 SE, third reading, have been removed. This agenda has been distributed to you as well. This is a common understanding of the body of elders. A procedural question, Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U62	Good manager! It's like the agenda's been dried up, but I've got a big problem. The problem is, in the meantime, my last break has been cleaned up on my last agenda with important notes on it. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] I think this is an intervention in the activities of a member of the Riigikogu and I would ask for these notes back.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U63	Thank you. I can already see that an official of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu is running to you and trying to find your agenda along with your notes. Let's hope they haven't been destroyed. Kalle Grünthal, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U64	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have just heard your position on how we will proceed today. Not in the sense of teasing, but I want to understand how these things work in this Riigikogu. Maybe you can give me an explanation. The question is that § 54 (1) of our Rules of Procedure states that the agenda for the next working week of the Riigikogu will be announced to the members of the Riigikogu by the end of the working week. There is no dispute about this at all; it was announced in good time. We met here today, but it turned out that the Riigikogu would not approve this agenda. And now we're in a fucked-up situation in my opinion, maybe you can explain it to me in more detail. Basically, we should run out this week and wait until this week's work week is over. The definition of working week is stated in § 46 (1). It is not our fault that the representatives of the Reform Party broke up and did not want to work at all this week. The exit is not even an emergency session, because it is being held outside the regular session. Why don't you explain? I still think that the Riigikogu, which is involved in lawmaking, sets an example for the people of Estonia in principle. We should be clear on this. I believe that, after this long conference you held, you will also have a legal framework that will allow the sitting to continue in this form.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U65	Yes, thank you! An executive edition of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, which was also discussed in the Board of Elders, will help here. § 55 of the Act, which refers to the approval of the agenda, says in principle that if the agenda has not been approved, how the agenda will proceed. Then there's a consultation at the elders' council. In this case, the Committee on Social Affairs proposed the first item on Wednesday. The Bureau agreed. So this is the rhythm we discussed during the break. Well, I don't see any more procedural questions. We will now begin preparations for voting on the agenda. Dear colleagues, before we go to the vote, because we are really in a very new situation, I would like to say for the verbatim report that it was a consensual decision of the body of elders. The chairman of the commission has also been consulted on this issue, and the Bureau has therefore brought to the table the agenda that is currently before you. I am voting on the approval of the agenda for the second working week of the VI plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U66	The agenda has not been adopted with the result of 78 votes against and abstentions. I would like to thank all the members of the Riigikogu and the political groups and the members of the Board of Elders and the Board of Directors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U67	Let's start this week's agenda. We are at the first item on the agenda: Urmas Reinsalu, Priit Sibula, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Heiki Hepneri, Sven Sesteri, Aivar Koka, Andres Metsoja and Raivo Tamme's inquiry into immigration pressure submitted on 30 August 2021, No 86. Prime Minister Kaja Kallas will answer the question. I ask the representative of the heirs for a speech chair of the Riigikogu to introduce the questioning. Please, Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U68	Madam Prime Minister! First of all, I would like to thank you for having actually come to answer on such an important issue earlier than formally foreseen by the Rules of Procedure procedure within 21 working days. It was also a request from the questioners, and I am pleased that you have met it. Because questioning concerns an important issue, and that is our national security. As we know, Europe is facing a new migration crisis, and we can see that there has also been pressure in the Baltic-Polish space as a 'hybrid attack' by using illegal migrants to undermine security and stability in those countries that are under pressure. In particular, Lithuania [is] under pressure, Poland [is] under pressure, Latvia has also been under pressure. There is no doubt that it is only a matter of time before Estonia has an immediate border with Russia, when a hybrid attack of this type may be used against Estonia in the event of a conflict, using illegal migrants on the Estonian-Russian border. Therefore, the questioners have questions concerning the establishment of physical barriers on the Estonian border control line. The plans so far, as we know, foresee the completion of our border by 2026. The changed security situation also requires us to take changed steps. That is why I specifically proposed to the government already in the summer, by sending a hit, namely to speed up the establishment of physical border barriers. On behalf of the government, Madam Prime Minister, you replied in the summer that it does not have to be [do]; it does not make sense to channel resources at the moment towards creating barriers and sea borders, because there is no direct migratory pressure. The authors of the inquiry do not really agree with this basic political position of your government. Exactly: we do not have to wait for this immediate pressure to come, but we need to learn from what has actually happened in other countries. This would be the smartest way to protect our national security interests. Therefore, if there is a statement that, based on threat assessments, the government does not see the need for a faster establishment of border barriers, what are these threat assessments that we are saying today that there is no risk that Russia might send illegal immigrants? Secondly, being more practical: what would be the additional financial cost of creating a physical barrier on the eastern border? We are not talking about building this entire boundary line in all its glory with all its facilities, but we are actually talking about a physical barrier that prevents people from crossing this boundary line. How quickly could it be technically built? One thing is the financial cover, the other, what would be the technical construction feasibility? And third. Since we are looking at the fact that there is no physical border barrier between our Baltic States, we are able to establish temporary border controls, but there is no border barrier, it is therefore reasonable to establish this border barrier in joint work with the Baltic States. And this is the question for the authors of the question: have you discussed the joint action between the Baltic Prime Ministers on the establishment of barriers to the eastern border of the Baltic States? The question is, if you, Madam Prime Minister, have discussed with the Baltic Prime Ministers the need to build physical barriers as a matter of urgency, whether the Prime Minister of Latvia and Lithuania share your position, to which you referred in a written reply to me, that there is no need to build a barrier to the eastern border in Estonia faster than what has been planned so far. These are short concrete proposals for questioning from respondents and, at the same time, a question for information. And once again, I would like to stress that we need to work together across political parties on matters of national security. The threat is real, the danger is real. Therefore, it is up to us here, the representative of the people, the government to take the necessary, necessary steps to prevent this threat without delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U69	Please, Kaja Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U70	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will answer the questions raised in the inquiry. Based on what threat assessment does the Government of the Republic not see the need for a faster border barrier? Firstly, your interpretation of my written response is certainly not correct. Therefore, this argument, which is also in this issue, is not correct. As a lawyer, I know very well what is addressed by the questions, and it is aimed at a question that can actually be answered wrong. In the context of the Belarus hybrid attack, the government has considered the possibility of increasing pressure on our borders. However, mostly from the Latvian direction, we do not have a border with Belarus, as we know. It has also not been observed that illegal immigration organised by Belarus is heading towards Russia and further towards Estonia. This immigration threat to borders, which would lead to the establishment of temporary barriers to the eastern border of Estonia and to the sea border, has not been predicted by the relevant authorities because of these circumstances. But what have we done? We have done that we have made it possible to prevent illegal migration pressure by increasing the control of the Police and Border Guard Board at borders and ports. The mass immigration emergency plan has been completed with a detailed implementation part. Police and Border Guard Board will also assess the possibilities of building the eastern border faster but at the same time properly. So there is no plan to create temporary barriers, but there is a plan to continue building a proper border. The second question: what would be the additional financial cost of creating a physical barrier at the eastern border? The Police and Border Guard Board has received an assignment to find out the conditions for accelerating the development of the eastern border, but, as I said, this is not a temporary but a permanent facility. This autumn this review of the government will also come. Have you discussed joint action between the Baltic Prime Ministers on the establishment of barriers to the eastern border of the Baltic States? We have been in constant contact with the Baltic Prime Ministers and the Polish Prime Minister at various meetings, and we have also discussed the establishment of barriers to the eastern border of the Baltic States in relation to the Baltic States. Close cooperation between the Baltic States and also between Poland is taking place to strengthen the surveillance of the external borders of the European Union. We are bilaterally assisting with experts and technology. And what you said at the beginning of the introduction on the contrary, we find that Estonia's protection, internal security, [at all] Estonia's security actually begins there at the Latvian-Lithuania border. So in this sense, we understand the situation very well. Together with the Baltic countries, we have worked for a long time to change the European Commission's practice in financing border infrastructure. So far, this has not allowed funding for the construction of the physical border, but only for technical monitoring systems. This joint explanation work will continue. Question 4: If you have discussed the subject with the Baltic Prime Ministers, do they share your view that there is no need to build a barrier to the eastern border faster than what has been planned so far? Again, a very misleading question, a guiding question. You have put in this question a misleading statement that is not true. That is not my position, your interpretation of my written response is not correct. As I said, in the context of a hybrid attack on Belarus, the government has taken into account the possibility that pressure will increase on Estonia's borders as well. This is an opportunity that we have taken fully into account and that is exactly how we will act. The Baltic States, as well as Poland, are working closely together to prevent a hybrid attack on Belarus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U71	Okay. And now it's possible to ask questions at the hearing. I would remind you that every member of the Riigikogu is able to ask one oral question and, after the round of negotiations, it is also possible for members of the Riigikogu to speak. First Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U72	Thank you, Madam Prime Minister. The answer was, but there was no answer, Madam Prime Minister, with all due respect. Indeed, in your written reply you said to me, I quote: "From the outset, police and border guards have strengthened border controls in the border areas and ports of Estonia and Latvia. This is a preventive measure that we have taken, despite the fact that there is no direct migratory pressure on Estonia in the current situation. As a result, it does not make sense at the moment to focus resources on the establishment of barriers and sea borders. " End of quote. It's a direct [representation], I have no way to put words, I believe, in your mouth. This is a direct indication [of your words] that there is no pressure at this time. And we asked you which risk assessments you didn't see a faster need to set up border barriers. There is no [times inside the word "temporaryly"] in our inquiry. You have skilfully used the word 'temporaryly' as a 'professional lawyer', there is no word 'temporary' in this text. And you said the authorities aren't forecasting. What authorities? And is it possible to make these forecasts available to Members? What authorities currently do not anticipate the migration pressure at the Estonian-Russian border and can they also be made available in writing to Members of Parliament, I expect them to be secretly available? And second of all, the question is how much it costs, the faster the barriers. You said...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U73	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U74	... that you are dealing with barriers, but there is no need to deal with them. What is the obvious situation? Yeah, but the question is important. Apparently, the chair understands.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U75	Security authorities are working on the preparation of these threat assessments and the Riigikogu has a security authority monitoring committee that can directly ask them these questions. Now, what I said is that we are looking at this so that we can build the border in an accelerated manner and that quality must not be affected in this respect. That's what I said. To take some additional measures speedily, to put any barriers there, we have not foreseen that. Right now, there are no such illegal migrants beyond our borders. Yes, I agree with you that this may all change, but it isn't right now, and we're getting ready to make sure it doesn't come. We are cooperating fully with the Baltic countries, we have helped them to counter illegal migration at their borders, and so far this aid has benefited from it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U76	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U77	Good manager! Prime Minister! With Belarus, yes, we have no border, but we do with Russia. And what happened in Afghanistan, which the President of the Republic didn't think in April, he thought it would go on. My question is: what is the probability that people coming from Afghanistan will also reach the Estonian border? If our relations with Russia were to deepen, the same could happen on our borders, which are being built now and not too eagerly.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U78	Thank you. This border could have been better built if, in August 2019, the government at that time had not decided to do so in a reduced form. Given that the EKRE cooperates with the Kremlin-minded, it makes perfect sense that you, in the form of your Minister for the Interior, decided to reduce this border. In any case, we are going forward with the construction of this border, and we have set out the means to do so. I absolutely agree with you that the border must be strengthened. There's no pressure from the Russian direction right now, but that doesn't mean it can't happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U79	In the meantime, the procedure has arisen. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U80	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I have a question that was raised in last week's Question Time, where the Prime Minister, instead of answering questions from members of the Riigikogu, began to insult, lie, vulgar, just as he was now giving birth to the fact that the EKRE is working with pro-Kremlins in order to undermine the construction of the border, and so on and so forth. I beg you, order the Prime Minister. It is neither polite nor appropriate, instead of answering, to simply dismantle the members of the Riigikogu and the parties belonging to the Riigikogu and spread some hostile propaganda here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U81	The procedure, Mart Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U82	Yes, I would also like to draw the Prime Minister's attention to the massive money laundering from Russia during the Reform Party. The ministers of the Reform Party were probably aware of this and probably covered it. And, of course, the Reform Party is thus the most direct pro-Kremlin party in Estonia, representing the interests of Russia. In order to give the impression that others are pro-Kremlin, the best defense is always an attack. We ask the Prime Minister not to hide his party's money laundering scandals by quoting false news and making false accusations about the Riigikogu's remote control, all the more so as they do not concern the subject of absolute questioning.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U83	Urmas Reinsalu, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U84	I would like to call for national cooperation on such an important issue as the Estonian border, the security of Estonia and the security of people. Let's not drop accusations from one side or the other, let's look at the spirit of cooperation that we can do better together. This is what the people of Estonia are now expecting from us, who are demandingly looking at Toompea.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U85	All I can do is sign that last call. And defamation charges should be avoided. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U86	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Prime Minister! True, immigration pressure on the Baltic countries has increased recently. Here's the question: does it seem to you that it is the most reasonable thing that we are currently in Estonia to demolish and pressurize our power structures by vaccination-non-vaccination? We are letting people go at the very first time we have the notice of lay-off at a time where we should just stick together and make sure that everyone is ready to act when it is necessary for us to have all positions manned. How do you feel about that being reasonable?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U87	Thank you. First of all, just in case, this cooperation with the Kremlin-minded was not an accusation, it was a statement. This has been confirmed by Mart Helme himself in the press that this cooperation has taken place.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U88	[[He's shouting from the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U89	But now in answer to the question: as far as vaccination is concerned, every company, every institution, has the opportunity to carry out a risk analysis. And the Defence Forces and the Police and Border Guard say they can't arrange their work any other way. And the fact that people who have to deal with security get sick is also a security risk. I believe that the work is arranged in such a way that the functions are actually fulfilled. And if, for example, more than 90% of the Defence Forces have been vaccinated, this is in any case not a major problem. As I already replied to you or your colleagues in Question Time, according to the risk analysis, there is a possibility to take different measures. It's the last chance to fire people. I believe that this opportunity will not be used lightly, because there is a shortage of labour everywhere and workers are everywhere at cost.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U90	Mart Helme, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U91	I most decisively protest against lying from the Riigikogu's remote control. Against lying! First of all, what kind of evidence do you have of some Kremlin-minded? What evidence do you have that I've met the Kremlin-minded other than the press labels? Secondly, what have I confirmed by my cooperation with the Kremlin-minded? Do you have a little bit of sense in your head, or do you just have some sort of propaganda memos out there? Stop lying, please, false accusations that started out as if we hadn't been involved in building the border. I'm sorry, it was our party in my person who started building the border with a more precise control line. Your ass ministers couldn't do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U92	Urmas Reinsalu, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U93	Honourable Members of Parliament! Once again, I call on us to cooperate and respectful behaviour in this security situation in which we are located. Instead of throwing mutual accusations, [we should] try to find solutions in this debate today that we can do more effectively in order to protect the security of the Estonian people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U94	I dare add the members of the government to this. Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U95	Thank you, Mr President. Good performer! According to the Polish authorities, 10,000 migrants may flow from Belarus to Lithuania or Poland in the coming weeks. In Lithuania, security problems have already arisen in the settlements hosting illegal migrants. The migrants flee the camps, commit crimes in peaceful villages and towns. Local residents have therefore created neighborhood watch movements to prevent new crimes because the police are few. But now to the question, it consists of two parts. First of all, do you have a plan of how Estonia will behave when migratory pressures on our borders occur like in Lithuania? Are we gathering forces and defending our borders and preventing illegal border crossings, or are we going to receive all arrivals indiscriminately and to accommodate the surrounding school buildings, while putting the safety of the people of South-Estonia who are already affected by peripheralisation under pressure? What's your plan? And another part of the question: how does the government plan to react when there is pressure to move migrants arriving in Lithuania from Lithuania to Estonia? As the Reform Party has shown astonishing submission on migration issues, I do not even ask whether you will accept or demand, but ask directly about your plan: in which settlements in Estonia are you planning to open the first migrant camps?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U96	Thank you. Firstly, yes, we will gather forces and protect the Estonian border from illegal immigration. And secondly, we are helping Lithuania with our forces at the Lithuanian border in order to prevent illegal immigration there. We have allocated different resources to them, we have sent our people to help protect this border there, because our security is already starting in Lithuania. We are doing all this to prevent migratory pressures.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U97	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U98	Good manager! Prime Minister! The border is a serious and living organism whose protection is one of the most important functions of the country. In order to protect the border, not only physical barriers are enough, but a large part of the protection of the border lies with the person, the person who does his job on the border. And that means there's a different tactical way of saying, the goals of how this thing is done. Today, the border guard has been eliminated as a practically independent organisation and is employed by the police department. This means that all the training that has been in its time is, how to say, dissolved. Staff will also be dissolved, as a large number of former border guards who have been trained and trained to learn for money elsewhere in the world have gone to the armed forces or anywhere else. It means that...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U99	Time, Riho!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U100	...the leaders of the border guards have been taken from people who do not have the appropriate competence. How do you think you're gonna solve this in the future? So who's finally a Russian agent here?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U101	First of all, time is not very good.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U102	Well, let me run it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U103	Your watches are different. As far as border guards are concerned, I absolutely agree with you that, of course, people in border guards are very important. The Police and Border Guard Board acts as a single organisation, the border guards are in it and their training will certainly respond to what is necessary at the border. So I do not think that the association of the organisation has directly changed this situation. Without people, the border will not be guarded, that is clear, and the police and Border Guard will continue to educate and prepare people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U104	Jack White.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U105	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! We are talking here about the threat of illegal mass immigration, but in fact, we are experiencing massive legal immigration. You did say on Wednesday that there could be no equal sign between the 1980s and the current period of immigration, because there would be no mass immigration, unlike at that time. But the facts tell me otherwise. Last year, some 16,000 people migrated and 12,000 people migrated. Except for the migration of Estonians, we received 5,000 new immigrants. From 1981 to 1990, an average of 17000 persons arrived in Estonia a year and 13,000 went out. It's essentially the same numbers. The balance of migration was therefore even smaller than today. I understand that you were not correctly informed, but now that you have found out that it is so that you are wrong, can we assume that the government is going to change immigration policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U106	This question is about border building and, in principle, illegal immigration, which is about the hybrid attack that Lithuania and Latvia, as well as Poland, are currently under. We are dealing with the fight against illegal migration. I don't have these migration numbers with me right now, so I'm ready to argue with you in all the details. But I'm sure you'll ask me in briefing, and I'll try to prepare better by then.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U107	The procedure, Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U108	I would point out to the Prime Minister that he must be illiterate and cannot read. The inquiry is about immigration pressure. Immigration pressure, not border construction, not control line. All of them, of course, are intertwined. About the pressure of immigration! This also applies to the immigration that we have through universities that we have through the labour force and so on and so forth. So all the questions that concern it are legitimate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U109	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U110	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! In order to effectively guard the border and, if necessary, to quickly establish border barriers, it is essential, in principle, to clean the border area from wood vegetation. When we met the Minister of the Interior last week, he didn't think it was necessary to clean up the border regions at an early pace. What do you think, is it really necessary to clean up the pre-temporal border area? And if you think it's necessary, have you given RMK an order? Because, in fact, RMK would in principle be able to organise it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U111	Thank you. In terms of the border, nature actually cooperates very much with protection. If you've been to the border yourself, there are swamps, watery areas, and very dense bushes. If we look at this border, there's no bush around the border, there's no one to see who's moving there. So I believe that all of this will be taken into account when building the border.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U112	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U113	Thank you. First, a terminological clarification. It is not the eastern border of Estonia, but the temporary control line according to the state border law. So please be specific. But that's where the inquisitors were wrong. I agree with you, indeed, there is probably no immediate danger to us from Belarus that illegal immigrants will come from there, but through Russia from Afghanistan and God knows where else. We have seen this in the case of Finland and Norway. My question. You did not answer Siim Pohlak's question as to whether we are going to reject illegal immigrants from the borders, just as Latvia, Lithuania and Poland are doing, or whether we are going to accept them kindly and then we are going to deal with them. And since you didn't answer that question, and the Minister for the Interior, Jaani, has only been spinning, hasn't given a clear answer, you're probably gonna let all illegal border crossings into the country. Do you realize the problem you're causing with this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U114	Thank you. I answered your colleague Pohlak's question in this way: yes, we are going to reject illegal migration at the border. I do not know if it is possible to respond more clearly to this. Yes, we intend to reject illegal immigrants from crossing the border.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U115	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U116	Thank you. The same is true of the fact that will is certainly important and the question is what action the government will take to do so. My question is that, as I understand it, you have pointed out in various answers that [in relation to] the security situation in both Belarus and Afghanistan there is this pressure on Estonia in one way or another, whether less or more. But I say that the immigrants who came to Greece and Italy were not directly [we are at risk], but in the end we must take care of them together in Europe. I now have a question again about Belarus and Afghanistan. If you also believe that this will affect our security situation, has the government discussed how we can build the border as a matter of urgency and what instruments are planned to do so at what stage?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U117	Thank you. As far as Afghanistan is concerned, we are working with our allies in Afghanistan, and it also aims to cooperate with neighbouring countries where the larger allies have better relations. This is precisely so that this migration pressure still does not come to Europe. It's everyone's common interest. With regard to the construction of the border, the state budget and the state budget strategy also provide the means to build the border in a row. And we're going to try to do it in an accelerated manner, but so that quality doesn't suffer. That is what we can do gradually, and it will not be completed in one day, that is clear. But there's a desire to go on with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U118	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U119	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! When migrants began to break into Latvia, we had a lot of publicity that the police would monitor the Estonian-Latvian border. There was a police car in the Valga near two border crossing points, and there was no inspection of any cars arriving to us. The cops were sitting in the car looking at me. Since I am an old border guard, I traveled several days through the small highways from Valga to Mõysten, which came from Latvia to Estonia. I didn't see any cops on those roads. How do you think that there are no migrants coming to Estonia from Latvia? Why would the media advertise that the police are going to check the border crossing from Latvia? I understand, of course, that you have destroyed the border guard and there are no [people] who can guard the border.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U120	Thank you. The Estonian-Latvian border in Schengen is the internal border of the European Union, which is where we normally do not have border controls. In a crisis situation, the Police and Border Guard Board carries out random checks to assess whether there is migration pressure or not. I've never been to the border myself to check which and how many cars they're stopping. But they certainly operate there, and this information is exchanged with Latvia, Lithuania and Poland.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U121	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U122	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Kaja Kallas! While immigration pressure on the Lithuanian border increased some time ago, the Belarusian border guards also invaded the Belarusian-Lithuania border. In essence, Lithuania did not oppose this violation of its territorial integrity and sovereignty. Let's imagine we're going to have a similar situation on the control line with the Russian Federation. Is your government prepared to defend Estonia's sovereignty and territorial integrity in this case, if necessary with the power of a weapon? Do you think that Estonia is capable of doing this at all, given the virtually non-existent situation of our border guard? Or what's your position? What is your answer to this question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U123	Thank you. When Estonia is attacked, Estonia must respond to it in accordance with the Constitution, and all institutions, all authorities to which such a role has been assigned, will do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U124	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U125	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! I read from your answers that you are not completely indifferent to the pressures of migration that threaten Estonia and are concerned that the Estonian border will be protected. But who are your allies in Western Europe? Great powers that have voluntarily opened up their borders to millions and millions of immigrants. At the same time, your government has been very critical of Poland and Hungary, which have long been the only countries that have protected Europe from the invasion of foreign peoples and races. How should the people of Estonia view it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U126	Thank you. Our allies in the European Union and NATO are very different. There are smaller and larger countries. Larger countries have a better opportunity to negotiate with the various countries in the neighbourhood of their [migration] countries, as well as with the governments of their countries of origin. That's what's been done. I believe that there are many lessons from 2015 that are not to be repeated.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U127	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U128	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Kaja Kallas! You have come to the Riigikogu today because you have been asked about the pressure of immigration. These questions have also been submitted in writing. I noted the problem that when you answered Urmas Reinsalu's question of what risk assessments might be, whether migration pressure might occur here, you replied by asking the security authorities. It is incomprehensible to me that you have come to the Riigikogu to discuss this problem, but you do not know it. Why haven't you brought yourself up to date with the issues of immigration pressure? Or you may not consider the second option, the Riigikogu at all worthy of answering this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U129	Thank you. Dear Kalle Grünthal! We have such a thing as state secrets and threat assessments by security authorities very often involve state secrets because [information] has been obtained, for example, from the intelligence agencies of our allies. I therefore referred to the fact that the members of the Riigikogu will certainly be able to examine these threat assessments at the Security Authorities Supervisory Committee, where the respective permits are available. It is also clear that you have received these risk assessments. I cannot reveal information classified from this Riigikogu speaker board. In doing so, I could go against the state secret law. Therefore, I suggest you ask for these threat assessments. Of course, I know these threat assessments, and there was a meeting today where they were introduced. Of course I know. But I can't talk about them here. You can ask there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U130	Procedural, Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U131	Thank you, Mr President. Since the inquisitor used my name, I think I'm entitled to a reply in this regard. The question is, Mr Kallas, that the question that Urmas Reinsalu asked you was not about the risk assessment that should be kept secret, but the question was that, based on the threat assessment, the Government of the Republic does not see the need for a faster border barrier. Perhaps there is no danger [as]. And this isn't about the security authority, it's about the government of the Republic, whose head you are. So here, I do not think this answer is correct. You could have told Urmas Reinsalu right away to ask there, because I can't talk on the remote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U132	I would point out that the name mentioned during the negotiations has the right to reply, the right to reply. It's not now. But it is always possible to speak up later. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U133	Thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! I have such a slightly more domestic question that goes into an area that you are very well aware of. As we know, migration control measures are very different, they are physical barriers, they are teams, they are human resources, they are money. However, one [problem] is certainly the burden on the courts, the administrative courts, which may result in this should this migration pressure arise. Perhaps you could give an estimate of our current tolerance? What would our courts be able to do? Is that 30 people, 300 people, 3,000 people? [What] is the order of magnitude that our courts are able to absorb or say?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U134	Thank you. In your question, there were so many assumptions as to "if" that it would simply not be possible to answer that question. To answer that question would assume that all these assumptions have been kind of negotiated. But there is no migration pressure right now. There is no pressure on our courts. We don't appreciate how much it would be. And that would also depend on how much work the administrative courts are doing. But I'm not going to answer speculative questions, which would require consideration of all these assumptions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U135	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U136	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! The crisis that broke out in 2015 at the borders of the European Union was called the refugee crisis. All those who arrived across the Mediterranean or across the land border in hordes said: "Azyl!" received on two hands and treated as refugees. Now people come from the same countries, across the borders of the European Union, but they come from Belarus. And now they've become elements of a hybrid war, illegal immigrants. Why such a change of mind, a change of rhetoric, and why weren't they mentioned in the first place?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U137	These people have arrived legally in Belarus. There they are not illegal, illegal migrants, but perfectly legal, because the country of Belarus has granted them visas. They have flown there, but they want to cross the border of the European Union illegally, or illegally. Lithuania, Latvia and Poland have the right to reject illegal immigration and say that those who have arrived in Belarus legally should be in Belarus. In any case, they have the right not to let these people cross their borders.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U138	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U139	Thank you. Today, in our region, this security threat and the creation of illegal border crossings are primarily due to Belarus's actions, based on Belarus. A few years ago, I recall, there was also pressure from Russia on Norway, for example, and on several other countries. We cannot rule out Russia's overnight emergence of such a threat. You have said here that the risk analysis carried out by the security authorities says that there is no and there is no risk that would result in a radically faster development of the border or would mean a more serious security threat to the Estonian control line, which we are now calling the border. Please tell us whether the members of the Riigikogu have access to this analysis. Is there such an analysis first, and if so, is it classified? Are you sure that members of the Riigikogu who do not have access to state secrets can access it? So my question is: does this [analysis] exist, is it classified and will the members of the Riigikogu have access to it, as you confirm?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U140	Thank you. Firstly, I agree with you that the pressure from Russia cannot be ruled out and no one has ruled it out. Now, these threat assessments concerning Belarus, which concerns Russia, which concerns our borders, have been carried out by the security authorities in different ways. It is certainly the people of the Security Authority Monitoring Commission that have all these permits, so that the risk assessments can be examined, they can probably also be asked by the authorities that can provide these reviews.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U141	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U142	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Prime Minister! Theoretical threats today may become real threats tomorrow. I would like to continue with Mr Seeder's question. Belarus has now declared its territory visa-free for citizens of Egypt, Jordan and Pakistan. He has opened an international flight to Grodna Airport, 25 kilometers from the Lithuanian border. Nothing prevents the Russians, as Mr Seeder pointed out, from repeating the same thing. I'm not asking you for a state secret permit. But perhaps you are aware, and you have asked the public authorities how quickly, in several days, if such a scenario could happen, we can lock the border.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U143	Thank you. Again, of course I am familiar with this information and, of course, all the concerns concerning Belarus's further action are known. Therefore, preparation for the protection of its borders must be done. Different exercises are being carried out, and different scenarios have been thought through by these institutions. The countries of origin are also being dealt with so that people do not come from there. But once again, the question of specific days cannot be answered in this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U144	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U145	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! You answered the Moonika Helme question and explained that those who came to Belarus arrived officially and with a visa, and they are not refugees, they are legal border crossingrs. But in 2015, Russia also entered with a visa, [from Russia through Norway]. And at that time, these individuals were treated as refugees. Explain to me what the difference is now. To me, according to your explanation, this has gotten really messed up. Who are these refugees, then, and who are the immigrants? Who's who?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U146	Thank you. Point one: people have arrived legally in Belarus with a visa, that is, they are legally staying in Belarus. Point two: they're trying to cross the border illegally. They do not have the right to enter the European Union; they do not have the right to cross the Belarusian-Lithuania border. Maybe this crossing is illegal. And point three: because it is illegal, Lithuania, Latvia and Poland have the right to reject these people and to say that they have no right to enter the European Union because they have not been granted corresponding permits, either in the form of a visa or a work permit or whatever.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U147	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U148	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Most members of the Riigikogu have a state secret permit and this is for almost everyone on the European Union Affairs Committee. But we still want to discuss the things on the agenda in that committee, not start bombing the Minister of the Interior. Would it still be possible to tell the members of the government to go and describe these threat assessments, even to talk to the political groups? We're grown-up people, we understand what state secrets are. However, we do not talk about this elsewhere, otherwise we would not be granted a state secret permit. But my question is this: has Estonia already prepared some agreements with other friendly countries? After all, we supported Lithuania with border barriers, and ours are there as if they were renting. If we are under this pressure, do we have a friendly country that [is willing] to transport them to Estonia very quickly on an ad hoc basis?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U149	Thank you. First of all, state secrets. If you're reading the State Secret Act, if I'm entrusted with state secrets, then I can't go on talking to a person who has a state secret permit. So whoever has revealed this secret to me must reveal it to you individually. That's why I'm asking you to ask them directly. Secondly, as far as border barriers are concerned, of course we are helping Lithuania and we have also asked whether they would do the same if we were in trouble. And I'm sure they would. We have a lot of friends in NATO in the form of allies and Member States in the European Union. I am more than convinced that if we have trouble in the house, they will help us just as we are now helping Lithuania.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U150	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U151	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Madam Prime Minister! At the moment, it is not very helpful to analyse what previous governments have done or failed to do. Now we're in the situation where we are. I'd say so. Would it help if the National Defence Committee initiated a draft decision of the Riigikogu, which would give the Government of the Republic the opportunity to carry out border facilities and all those belonging to it, for example, by the end of 2023 and not by the end of 2026, as well as the possibility to create a crisis reserve for the PPP, for example, within 2000 people, as soon as possible. After all, our situation would be quite different if the PBGB had a reserve for the crisis. We could've sent it to Leetu or we could've done it by now. 2015 Russia used migration as a weapon against both Norway and Finland. We cannot rule out that we may need it all faster than we fear.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U152	Thank you. First of all, there will be EUR 104 million to build a state border with all this infrastructure until 2026. Can this be done in an accelerated manner? Look at what's happening on the construction market right now! I believe the Ministry of the Interior is moving as fast as possible and has brought forward the things they can do sooner. Just in a situation where prices rise almost three times a day, all of this is certainly very difficult, not impossible. But I'm sure the Department of Internal Affairs, Police and Border Guard will take these steps.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U153	Thank you. No further questions. We can go to the negotiations. First of all, the representative of the author of the statement. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U154	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U155	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U156	Madam Prime Minister, with all due respect: no substantive answer, unfortunately, I must say, did not. The point is that no barriers have to be made, but the question of building the border faster was how much it costs in real terms and what are the concrete actions that are planned. But there were only reproaches for what happened in the past, omissions or anything else. We need real, quick and practical steps. [Recital of] why no real, quick and practical steps need to be taken has been taken to conceal the alleged threat assessment of state secrets, which says that there is no direct migratory pressure on Estonia. But we, Madam Prime Minister, will abide by this word and will certainly be asked to submit this document in accordance with the procedures of state secrecy. As far as the issue of state secrecy is concerned paradoxically, I also know that the conflict that was at Meelis Oidsalu, Deputy Chancellor of the Ministry of Defence, which led to his leaving the service, was also linked to the fact that Mr Oidsalu, as a loyal state official, applied for faster action in the Lithuanian-Belarus border crisis, also in the field of national defence, but this was not considered necessary by the superiors and was due to his resignation. And thanks for being loyal to the Republic of Estonia by a state official, it was decided to fabricate some alleged criminal case against him or a complaint about a criminal case whose leading appeals come from your institution, the State Chancellery. I think it's an ugly and mysterious story. And in this case, what was there with the violation of this state secret, Parliament actually needs clarity. The Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Security Authorities should, in fact, invite all those involved, both the Secretary of State, Mr Oidsalu and others, to take this ugly case clear to the sticks. Will there be pressure from public officials who propose serious measures in the migration and security crisis, and will they be punished for this, so that they will have to leave the service and, as a result, will be charged with some kind of state secret [infringement]? Question two. What, of course, do we have to do? Act resolutely and quickly, in a sound mind. Our proposal is very simple and logical: to work together between all the Baltic States. Latvia, Lithuania and Poland have started to build barriers. And in reality, it is now quite reasonable that, since we are one space, everyone understands that if Latvia comes through, it can also come to the territory of Estonia, it is a very short distance, then we must work together internationally, agree common rules on how to build these barriers without stretching. We are one room here as an 'external border of the European Union', we have a duty to protect the external borders of the European Union, the external borders of the Schengen. It's not just a privilege as a random decision. And I am amazed, Madam Prime Minister, that you are in the government's view that there is nothing to be done. As you said in answering one question, you don't know if anyone is coming today or tomorrow, you don't appreciate it. But because we can't tell if we're coming today or tomorrow, we actually need to take preventive action. Learning from what happens in Latvia must be learned from what happened in Lithuania, learning from what happens in Poland. Of course it's a pre-warning period, we all understand. This may be an early warning period in the classes where one evening an SMS will come to you, Madam Prime Minister, from the security officers, that they will cross the border. And that's the situation. And then we've missed something. We've got to do it! We must act quickly! And now the question of what amazes me: you said that you were planning to build a border at an early pace. The question of how much it costs to set up a physical barrier at the border, how much this cost is, and in what time it would be, as you rightly pointed out, without the quality suffering, we did not actually get any specific answers. I'll ask you now. You're right about the ending. Tell me, Madam Prime Minister, how much you have foreseen in the next financial year to increase the funding of the border, and in what time will there be this physical barrier according to your understanding. Everything got very vague, everything slips through my fingers like sand, these answers. The slogan is beautiful, isn't it? We're defending it and it's gonna come to the limit pretty soon, but I'm asking you what's really gonna happen. That was the whole point of asking: getting practical information. That's what we really need. In my mind, your statement on what measures the government really wants to take in this case to counter the pressure of illegal migration from the East was a cause of uncertainty. We're preparing to keep it from coming. Well that was more or less this [reply]. I wrote it down, it's more or less a quote. How can we prepare for what is being done in Moscow, somewhere in the Russian intelligence office, or what is being done in the KGB office in Belarus? Absolutely! I don't think we control it. We have [possible] some sort of follow-up or pressure measures for the European Union and the Western countries to put pressure on it to give up. But, of course, to say that we rely on and hope that in Moscow and Minsk in reality [not prepared for not to come], that is, of course, not realistic talk. We must assume that these positions against us are unambiguous in these countries: they want to discourage us if they want to put pressure on us. And, of course, it is not far from what has been pointed out here that it is a matter of time before Europe's external borders begin to reach huge amounts of migrants due to the forthcoming migration explosion on Afghanistan's territory. This is actually happening. How do countries react to this? Responding to the establishment of border barriers. Look at Greece, look at Turkey, look at many other countries. Countries have learned from past mistakes, acting more resolutely. And all the more reason for us to act unambiguously and clearly. And what, in fact, Madam Prime Minister, was blurred in answering various questions: what is the direction given to our police authorities and our defence forces? If there is pressure to physically squeeze people across the border or across Lake Peipsi or across the Gulf of Finland, what are the measures? Madam Prime Minister, I would ask you specifically to answer in your final statement what is the order, how and by what method they are physically rejected from here, what is being done. My proposal was, in fact, to learn from the Mediterranean experience of acquiring floating walls in order to block these [people]. How are you going to act when the barges start coming along Lake Peipsi? What are the instructions that must be described as orders and orders to our militia and police officers? It's gotta be real-time. As your leader of wide-ranging national defence, Madam Prime Minister, what order have you given down with regard to the principles of broad-based national defence? What are the measures? What kind of equipment do our uniform carriers use? Mr Helme also asked, referring to it. What is the content of this command? It's very important to know. It's not a state secret. We need to know! It must be clear that you are taking adequate measures or have made adequate arrangements to protect the Estonian state's control line, the Estonian state border and our territory. Thank you, Madam Prime Minister. And once again, I stress: in this case, we are all on the same side of the front line. This question is, in fact, only intended to encourage the government. Now is the time to act. We must act, Madam Prime Minister! We don't have an alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U157	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U158	Can I have three more minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U159	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U160	Thank you. Prime Minister! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear listeners, This question is, as we know, about the pressure on immigration, and I would first like to dwell on this term. What I'm saying is that this term is interpreted as if it were some kind of problem caused by supernatural force. That's an incorrect interpretation. There is no doubt that people have always wanted to move elsewhere with a lower standard of living or from unstable areas, but they have not always been able to. And this so-called immigration pressure is actually a constant state, it has always been. In fact, the question is whether people in need are being tried to help on the ground, in their home country or closer to their home country, or whether people are being encouraged to travel further. I dare say that a number of European Union countries have encouraged people to travel. Look, if the signal is given that people are at least temporarily received in more prosperous countries, social assistance is given to them, so that they do not have to work, it is not strange that more adventurous people, especially younger men, are on the road. I do not want to say at all that there are no people among them who really need asylum. But now I'm reminding you, if it's the 1980s. In the 1950's, Estonians fled to Finland, then Finland gave them up to the Soviet Union very quickly as borderbreakers. And the Finnish authorities knew very well that they were being brutally punished in the Soviet Union, that the Soviet Union was not a safe country for them. In fact, I do not blame Finland at all for this; Finland acted so simply because it feared the Soviet Union. I gave this example in order to explain and show how politics are different. And after that, right, the Estonians knew that there was no point in escaping to Finland. The idea was to try Sweden to escape from those people who were really afraid of persecution. However, now in Finland, it takes a very long time, sometimes years, to determine whether or not a person is to be returned. And if there is any doubt that he is threatened by something at home, he can stay in Europe. For example, the common justification for illegal immigrants coming from Asia, claiming that their home country is not safe, is that they are homosexually oriented. They know that this can and will affect the European Union. It's hard to control. In fact, the European Union has created a problem for itself instead of defending its own borders. However, if it turns out that those who are illegally coming to the European Union do not have the right to remain in the European Union, only a very small part will actually be redirected back. This is now a fresh special report from the European Court of Auditors, I suggest you read it, it is from 13 September. According to this, since 2008, about half a million foreigners have been ordered to leave the European Union each year, but in fact only one third have left. One-third! For a country outside Europe, this figure is 19%, or one in five. Thus, hundreds of thousands of people each year have remained in the European Union without having the right to do so. There may now be several million people in the European Union who have been assigned to return, but have remained illegal, a person who does not get a job, at least officially not, are active or engage in all kinds of black business, are radicalising, etc. Of course, such a policy encourages more and more people of all kinds to come to Europe, and if European countries do not defend their external borders, they will be here and they will remain. Okay. But now I'm coming to Estonia. Like I said before, we're talking about a threat. But understand that we have mass immigration without illegal immigration at the level of the 1980s, unlike Latvia or Lithuania. The main reason for obtaining a residence permit in Estonia is coming to work, going to study and family migration. And last, this family migration makes sense, because family members come next to people who live in Estonia. And on average, one in three to study or work, two more family members will come, and more will probably come later. Less than 5% of Estonian foreign students studied in Estonian and only part of them paid tuition fees. At least in public universities, the tuition fee does not actually cover the tuition costs at all. In this way, the Estonian taxpayer is also paid by foreign students who pay tuition fees to the university. In addition, the Estonian taxpayer pays about one third of foreign students a needs-based study grant. More than 2000 residence permits per year are granted for work in recent years. In addition, as of August, we had 19000 valid registrations of short-term workers, for whom temporary work is a springboard for permanent stay in Estonia. I'm telling you, it's a springboard. And according to the unemployment fund, we have 46000 unemployed from August, and it is not right that we have labour shortages in simple occupations. You can look at the profiles of the unemployed, all can look at it and make sure it isn't. And I recall again that our labour productivity is only 74% of the European Union average. If we continue to bring in cheap labour, which pushes our wages down, our economy will still focus on sectors using cheap labour and innovations will slow down. Go on. Finally, we will ask whether immigration from eastern Slavic, African and Asian countries will help us to avoid social problems linked to the ageing of the population. The answer is that the population's birth rate from the Eastern Slavic cultural space is much lower than that of Estonians. Thus, the continuation of immigration of persons from there means an acceleration of the ageing population. That means even bigger problems for our children. The rapidly growing immigration of people from Asian and African countries may hinder the ageing of the population, but in the future it will mean the same thing as in Finland-Sweden today: some of the population's very high non-participation rate, so ultimately it will exacerbate the problems. So I do not understand in any way why the government is not dealing with immigration regulation. Please take the same bill that the coalition removed when it came to power! Or take the draft submitted by the EKRE in spring and change it if you have to, but come out with it! Do something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U161	Thank you. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U162	Thank you, President-in-Office. Madam Prime Minister! Protecting our border, whether it is a control line or not, is definitely a matter of national security. There is no doubt about that, and here we need a clear cross-party consensus. This is a common concern for all of us. And it is also true that today's situation is actually serious, because the hybrid attack against our allies, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland, is a fact. And we must also draw our own conclusions from this. It is not enough that we send Lithuania and Latvia to guard the barbed wire or the life force at the border. We must also deal with securing our own borders. And we're going to have to deal with it at an early pace. The Minister of the Interior visited the National Defence Committee and, in general, he could say that he did not see very much concern that he should be dealing with it at an early pace. And that, in itself, is very regrettable. In three years it is planned to build one sixth of the current border. But it is not about building the final border, but we need to think about how to protect when pressure comes to our borders in a specific section, where there is no obstacle at all. I asked the Minister for the Interior whether this corridor, this border area, this control line, has been specifically cleaned, as envisaged in the project: it has all been cut off, the bush has been cleaned. True, there are also different swamps. But then there was this round answer: you know, this border area is kind of like this and it's very different. And regrettably, Madam Prime Minister, your answer was exactly the same: there is bush and there are swamps. But indeed, if there is pressure on our borders and there is an urgent need to place a barbed wire barbed barbed barbecue barrier or push the border crossings back, how are we going to mimic them there? Has anyone ever imagined it, and if so, why isn't this information shared? Why is there a round roll? I had a clear proposal. RMK, which is engaged in logging, maintenance, management of forests in state lands, which has the capacity to do so, could be wiped out at an early pace if the border area is needed. There is a need to make sure that this is done. And it must also be maintained so that there is no bush or any round thing that no one knows about. It's actually a very, very serious question, but there's some kind of round bubble around it. In this respect, I have a very big request to you, Madam Prime Minister: tell the Minister for the Interior, also tell the Minister for the Environment that the border area must be clearly set off. It must be clean, it must be done in such a way that protective measures can be implemented very quickly. And believe me, RMK can handle this task if you give it to me! There is simply one order to be made. We shouldn't wait for 2025 or 2026, if we can somehow get to the fact that our border area is then constructed and we can go festively and cut the tape. It's a different situation today. And we'll work together! Indeed, it is not a personal question for any political party; it is a question for all of us, a question for all parties. It's a matter of national security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U163	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U164	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good Madam Prime Minister! We have a duty to raise children, and I have always raised my children with such a simple sentence that wise learns from the mistakes of others, stupid never learns, the choice is yours. My country is not a stupid country. But I want my country to make it look like it, too, so he'll learn from the mistakes of others. The old truth is, you want peace, prepare for war. Well, that's actually a deterrent, isn't it? That's the name of the thing. If we were to have a border cleared now, if there were to be some action, it would be a clear signal that Estonia is actually, in fact, ready to reject illegal migration in any way That's the question. Estonian men still have the handy ability to weld together maybe old metal barriers. Obviously Lithuanians don't say, hey, we're gonna give you a couple of kilometers of the barrier you borrowed. You have a problem in the house, too. Then this passage will not actually be protected. I'm skeptical. And every member of the Riigikogu must have skepticism, because all things can look good on paper. It must have been a few years ago when the chemical pollution was played in Tallinn. This is not a state secret at all, because this is what I heard at the meeting of the Kristiine district council, where we were told that 60% of the phone numbers that had been issued were not answered, just to play on paper, where we could evacuate Lasnamäe. Well, we imagine there was an order to make [know] who you're dealing with with this or another thing, ahah, chemical pollution, so a safety technician. Maybe there was no more office, maybe an old fat phone number was put on somewhere that wasn't there. But like this, you can't play these things through on paper. I believe that there are smaller units with their capabilities that maybe as our ambassadors, they don't need to know who's doing [something]. But the deterrent, the one that actually works across the border, has to be seen specifically. We could still do that. We could do this in just a campaign: not World Cleaning Day, but Estonian Preparation Day. It might discourage those who are planning something here. When you answered the questions of Riho Breivel and Leo Kunnas, I was a little surprised because these are people who may have known more about this topic than other members of the Riigikogu. But what's my problem? I am obliged to give my constituents answers. When they ask me what Estonia is doing now, whether these physical barriers are already being welded somewhere, I cannot go to them and tell them that I was not told much that this is a state secret. But by political groups, people don't know what to say, because people who are in the Committee on National Defence also have NATO secrecy. They could come and put their hand on my shoulder to [say]: Tarmo, don't worry, the Estonian state has been kept, protected, everything is a winch-on. But no, we still hear that we're acting like we're not. Maybe it's overexploited, that's our sense of danger. But then we should be calmed down and brought us some facts. A round bubble and spin does not really create confidence in any adult person that the information that is given to you is correct. And we're gonna have to give interviews from the hip here. In the event that we have something like this, a member of the Riigikogu will simply come up with these answers, because he has no answer to rely on. And then the press will amplify that our rescue plan is close to zero. I want the Estonian state not to be a stupid state, but to learn from the mistakes of others. You want peace, you want to prepare for war, and then the deterrence could take place along the border. Estonian men know how to make these barriers, and there would also be men who would host them there and make sure they didn't spread out on our village. We need a clear prep plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U165	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U166	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Mrs. Kallas! Colleagues! A few days ago, we had a meeting with Secretary of Defense Kalle Laanet. The day before that, we had a meeting with the Commander of the Defence Forces, Martin Herem. I have to say, both of these meetings left a very depressing taste in your mouth. Today, we listened to the Prime Minister's inquiry from the honourable Fatherland colleagues. I have to say, it's a depressing taste in my mouth. All three cases involve incompetence, administrative inadequacy and political overcharge. What should not be politics is turned into politics. But what you have to deal with is not really being dealt with, maybe not even talking about the matter, not talking about what you're doing. With the experience of the government, I can say that our government was working very seriously and relatively effectively to build a control line and to oppose possible mass migration. We remember very well how the present coalition leader party screamed, accused, prevented, slandered, lied in response to questions and on other occasions in this Chamber. Well, what do we see now? Now they're doing the same thing. Not in opposition anymore, but in coalition. And it is very sad and embarrassing, because with this attitude we cannot form any consensus and no common front in defending Estonia. None at all! But I'm talking about it. While I was a minister, we were conducting a mass control exercise on the southeast border. For several days, we mobilised the police, the border guards, the defence allies, but not only because illegal immigrants or otherwise border crossings need to be dealt with. They need to be processed. Even if we send them back, they need to be picked up somewhere first. And it turned out that we do not have the ability to process, that we do not have the transport capacity, that we do not have enough, say, the ability to capture border crossingrs, for very simple reasons. In the past, it has been decided, I cannot say, either for reasons of money savings or for reasons of ease of administration, to essentially eliminate border guards, to turn border guards into policemen and police officers into border guards. These are two very different things, and there are also very different things in which these border guards operate, whether they are active in the protection of maritime borders or in the protection of land borders. Here too there are huge differences: either on the southeast border, on the Narva river or on Lake Peipsi. Satan is in the details, as they say, and here are the details. What did we learn from the exercise? The study revealed that our absolute ceiling for illegal border crossings is 500 people in two days. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U167	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U168	We have now seen in the fight against illegal immigration from Lithuania and Poland that some days these numbers may be higher. By the way, we also looked at the representatives of our authorities some time ago when all this was acute at the Lithuanian border, how quickly we could build temporary border barriers. It turned out, at least it was claimed by the defence forces, that in a few days. It would take a few days for pioneers to set up the simplest wire barriers. Of course, these are not the well-built patrol fences we are currently building, but the most basic wire barrier, the barbed wire barrier, would not take much time. That's what we can do, and maybe we should. Instead of sending Leetu to the barbed wire, we should set up this wire barrier in certain sections that are most vulnerable. I have not been in government at the moment, I have not held these discussions, but from the sidelines, looking from here in the Riigikogu hall, it seems that this should be dealt with. We should have that readiness, we should have that material. It's not like when it comes down to it, they say, but now we have a call for tenders, it's going to take so much time to announce the procurement, we need a contractor's procurement... Don't! Don't! We buy barbed wire under the conditions of the free market economy, get our defence pioneers to build it, and we have it done. This is one example of how we can be prepared. Now, that question I put about the invasion of the territory. This was subsequently supplemented by the question of whether we and our allies have also discussed this issue, whether we have based this broader debate on the Lithuanian precedent, in order to say: yes, we have discussed this issue at NATO headquarters, and yes, our great allies, the allies with a power shoulder, the British, the Americans, the French have said that, of course, if your territory is invaded, there must be resistance, armed resistance, if necessary, and the intruder rejected. Or maybe they say, like, in Russian card game, I'll pass. I'll pass! And in that case, we have to decide whether we have backbone and content or whether we don't have backbone and content, and we say, well, well, then, let's hope they go back. These are very serious issues, and we did not get very specific answers from the answers to the question. Once again, we received overcharged political rhetoric. Well, the elections are in less than a month, that's understandable, of course, but it wasn't appropriate here. It wasn't appropriate! It would have been appropriate to answer the questions in a concrete, understandable, reasoned manner. Thank you. No more talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U169	I beg you next, Peter Ernits!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U170	Good manager! Prime Minister! Colleagues! Ten years have passed since the beginning of the Syrian war, and another war in Afghanistan has now ended. Both failed. In 2015, a million, partially invited, aliens to Europe. And what the Arab Spring brought us, everyone remembers. To this day, wounds are licked. And now I've listened to the Prime Minister, really emotionally loaded lady talk, pre-election, nervous kind, insulting my competitors. It's not pretty, but it's possible to understand. This morning we discussed the readiness for an unexpected rise in electricity prices. How, though, no analyst or anyone has been able to predict what this will bring. We can't appreciate what this mole that got out is doing: 60 today, 70 tomorrow, maybe soon 90 euros per megawatt-ton. No one can tell. The collapse of the war in Afghanistan, too. I read Al-Jazeera every day. Today I watched a very interesting channel that hasn't been watching. And our president, as the last head of state in April, spoke to President Khan, who escaped as a rat some time later, as if everything was in the best condition. It's collapsed! Analysts, even the best, showed that they really don't know what's going on. And now I hear from the Prime Minister that yes, they're not coming. There's no known secret analysis, but there's no danger. I've been at the border many times, even when Eston Suitcase was so-called abducted. The border guards showed me: there's a willow bush, there's a third. The next border crossing wasn't even visible. Indeed, we are building them now and at times quite well, but to say that there is no great concern, I think it may be the same empty talk that only from the outside is beautiful. There's nothing to hope for. When it was, I think 2016, when the Syrian brothers, the wealthier brothers, who had penetrated the Arctic Circle, traveled 4,000 miles [4,000 km] by bikes or by car across the Norwegian border. There were 500 of them, or even more. So it's really a problem to put the bull in a well. And if we look at Afghanistan now, what has happened! I am not going to talk about Syria, but there are some 1.4 million refugees now as a result of previous wars, their avantures. They're mostly in Pakistan, next to it. But there's another 2 million or more who don't have any documents. So nearly $4 million is already there, and that's the result of the last avant-ring war. And now you think they're not coming! They're coming, of course they're coming! We're gonna need a little more time before they come. And the fact that we have no border with Belarus has nothing to do with this. They can also come through Russia. In the same way through Russia! The bike can't cross us, we don't have that line. But there are places on our border where you can cross when you step, and we have to be ready for it. Al-Jazeera says today or said the day before yesterday, I read it with such a slight insult that, given the great role played by European countries in the war in Afghanistan, we would think that our European societies and politicians are very concerned about the possible refugees in Afghanistan. And then he writes a long story that he doesn't. We're not happy here either. The Prime Minister has said yes, we're taking ten Afghans, but there were actually a lot more of those who helped us. But that's what we've been neglecting. Another 15 through Mondo. But when it comes to 40, 100, 200 or 300 we have to be ready for it in real terms. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Nice bell!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U171	Yeah, time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U172	I'd like a few more minutes. That's enough. Or give me three!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U173	Please, then three. But be specific sometime, tell me exactly.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U174	Nice bell sound, I like it. In fact, we shouldn't blame each other here, even if there is an election. It's like animal running time. Animals go crazy and their eyes are full of blood and they run, and our dear Prime Minister, like the amoke run, insults too, when I asked here. Not pretty! Urmas Reinsalu said that we should look together, whether we sit on the left or right side of the hall or in the middle. This threat can come very easily, can come in the same way as the so-called glorious war in Afghanistan. The longest war in the United States, where we are parties, collapsed in the same way as those CO2 prices that analysts and nobody [other] could foresee. It collapsed, the molek rages. And in electricity prices, we'll see it soon, who hasn't seen it yet. And it's maybe till spring. As I asked today, I don't know how many more years it will take. Somehow this facade is a beautiful rule, but we have to consider that reality may not be at all beautiful. And if they're there at one point beyond our borders... Indeed, I have heard that if you give a proper order, you can quickly build these gardens, but that requires deforestation and certainly resentment with the owners and so on. In fact, if I wanted to, it would be possible to do it pretty quickly, very quickly, even. But yes, I think we're trying to be friendly. Not everything, so-called eyes full of blood, running, talking about how we're some Kremlin henchmen in this case, and so on. I won't tell you what the henchmen Kaja Kallas and his esteemed team are. Everybody's great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U175	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U176	Thank you, Deputy Speaker! Good Prime Minister! I listened to these questions and these answers, and I have to say that although slogans at times were almost there, yes, we reject, yes, we defend, then, from all this talk, you can easily conclude: an accident cries out when it comes. After all, today's government may even make the right sounds, but it will not make any necessary preparations for a similar crisis that has occurred on the Russian and Norwegian borders, on the Russian and Finnish borders, on the Latvian and Belarus, on the Latvian and Polish borders, on the Latvian and Lithuanian borders. The accident is coming. We all know it can happen overnight. We all know that this is a matter of political decision when it is decided to unscrew the taps in the Kremlin. And we're not in the process of preparing to fend it off. The previous government initiated the creation of an internal defence reserve, conscious and aware of the fact that the Bronze Night experience showed that we do not have enough people, people with sufficient training, people with sufficient equipment to counter such mass insubordination. In ten years, things have only gotten worse. We don't have a border guard anymore. And the worst of all: today it turned out that we do not even have an adequate sense of danger at the level of the government. I will not comment on this because I have not read these security authorities' threat assessments. But I was given a separate brief about the hybrid threat to the border by the security authorities about a month ago. And I didn't get the impression from the brief that the threat assessment was as lenient as the Prime Minister said today. This sense of danger, at least by foreign intelligence, was much more acute than the answers we heard here from Kaja Kallas. But most importantly, apart from the sense of danger and beyond the political slogans, real activities, planning, [needs] steps to think through, scenarios [to be prepared], to check whether these commands, which are then given, will work. They don't do all that. None of this is going to be done. Even this understanding is not that there really must be a corridor at the border that has been cut open. Instead, we say that swamps and forests are our borders. It's not! There hasn't been anywhere! On the contrary, such a forested territory is an excellent place where illegal border crossingrs can hide, where they cannot be monitored or repelled by aerial patrols or land patrols. It's an accident that cries out when it comes. If something should happen at the borders of Estonia, if they do, we will not talk about thousands, but if there are hundreds of people who are going to cross the border, today's government has done nothing to discourage it, to prevent it, to deal with it. Today's government simply walks in peace, with its eyes closed, humming any slogans, into destruction. I don't know what it takes to shake them out of this sleep, but I need to shake them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U177	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U178	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Madam Prime Minister! As Mr Heiki mentioned, we recently had the Minister of the Interior on the National Defence Committee and with him was Deputy Secretary General Meelis Oidsalu of the Ministry of Defence, who will soon resign. And what we heard was not very encouraging indeed. In fact, Deputy Chancellor Oidsalu was perfectly capable of answering our specific questions. I asked, for example, that if we invited all the pioneer units we have, i.e. the battalions of both the brigades and the pioneer groups of all the infantry battalions, how quickly we could build what was needed, what was the financial resource, what was a material resource, and whether it was possible. And he said, yes, if it is urgent, then this task is absolutely feasible. But the Defence Forces or the Defence League, they don't manage the border. The Home Office and the PBA still have it, this thing. They should prepare a plan on how to do it. And the Commander of the Defence Forces has confirmed that the Defence Forces are capable of doing so. If we need to set up ad-hoc border facilities in a hurry, then the Defence Forces will really be able to do it, but for that, the Home Office and the PBA will have to plan it, budget it and do everything else they need to do. I will now go to the threat assessments for a moment and look at the earlier events that have taken place on the borders of the European Union and Russia. 2015 when we are talking about Norway, Russia organised numerous illegal border crossings. And that's where the bicycle thing came from, that [cause] was actually that cars and buses were checked at the Norwegian border, but pedestrians and cyclists weren't. And that's why it was so organized that these illegal immigrants were organized and transferred by Russia. So it was created by the pressure of migration, this hybrid struggle right there, according to exactly these local circumstances, it was adapted to it. And when Finland had a similar crisis, it was 2015, when the refugee crisis in Europe was at its peak, in fact, neither President Niinistöl had much other opportunity to resolve it. He just went, got in touch with Putin and said that now this shit has got to stop. And that shit stopped. I fear that we will not have such a power shoulder if Russia wishes to apply something to us. In Belarus, too, there was practically no risk assessment in 2019 and 2020 to allow such a hybrid struggle. The only illegal border crossingrs there were a lot of them, too, were those who fled from the Lukashenko regime, who simply had to save their lives and health. There were no immigrants from third countries. And it came out all of a sudden. The Minister of the Interior assured us that there have been six illegal border crossings on the eastern border this year, if I remember correctly. We have no danger, but we can see how quickly these situations can change. And that is why we in the Committee on National Defence are also seriously thinking about what we can now do to help the Government of the Republic and to make a plan. Because if we make a plan, it doesn't necessarily involve one government, it also includes the next government and partly the next. How, then, can we do so? It is clear that the border facilities must now be completed earlier than by 2026. We just need to speed up this plan. And not to go overboard and do it out of quality... Five more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U179	No five minutes, three minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U180	... [then could] accelerate these processes and perform border facilities not by 2026 but by 2023. It could be such a realistic compromise that we do not lose quality. And at the same time, we are ready at any moment to implement this ad hoc solution, or at hand, with the help of the Defence Forces. In combination with these two solutions, we could perhaps solve the problem of border facilities by the end of 2023. But this, of course, means that it requires financial resources, which we do not have much to take away from anywhere. Just as in the case of mid-earth air control, a loan would probably be an option here, because our security situation is simply as serious as it is. And the second [of concern] is, of course, staff, which the previous speakers have already spoken about here, i.e. the crisis reserve of the PBGB. That's what we should create. We can use the Defence League temporarily, but we cannot do so in any longer or more serious crisis. We can't just take the Defence Leagues just like that, say, let's invite 100 men or 200 men to study gatherings and just send them to Lithuania or Latvia or Poland to help others. If we have a crisis reserve, it is not only a means of protecting our Estonian border, but it is a means of basically protecting the external borders of our entire region, the European Union. It should just be done. And, of course, since this is a crisis reserve for the PBGB, it is not only applicable to the protection of the external borders, but it can also be applied to domestic problematic situations, including hybrid war. We in the Commission will certainly try to move forward with this and come up with some constructive and adequate draft decision that we are trying to reach consensus in this Chamber [to approve]. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U181	There are no further requests to speak. With this we have... I'm sorry, Echo, you want a refill. Please, Madam Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U182	Thank you. It's regrettable that you politicize defense like this. On the one hand, two-faced as if you are calling for unity, but you are actually trying to politicise this issue. Very much produce this example to Norway and Russia. Let us remember when it was: in 2015. Where were your threat assessments then, after that? What did you do to look at these threat assessments? All of you are suggesting that this has happened and that it may also happen to us, because we have a border with Russia. It's all right. But what was your real move 2019? You've reduced the money for border building. Somehow actions and words don't quite match. Now, you're listing the power gaps we have here. But I would point out that we are still in control of the budget you have put together. So if there are these power gaps, you should look in the mirror at why these things have not been done. There's always a limited amount of money. It is proposed, for example, that some floating pontoons should be built on Peipsi. Every time we do something, we don't do anything else. The money goes there, but we don't actually see people swimming there. And who are we protecting from? We need to get the money where it's really needed. [[There's something going on in the hall.]] You are saying big words that you are very concerned about border construction, but you are actually reducing money to border construction. It seems to me by force that this is the move, that the best defense is an attack. That you go on a very hard attack, and then no one will notice that maybe you didn't have anything to do with yourself. And it seems to me very much that you are now regretting that you have not done these things. But don't worry, we'll fix those mistakes. While EUR 10.5 million was earmarked for border construction in 2021, EUR 14,4 million has already been earmarked for this in 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U183	We have now exhausted this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U184	We will move on to today's second item, which is an inquiry by Priit Sibula, Sven Sester, Heiki Hepner, Raivo Tamme, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Üllar Saaremäe and Mikhail Lotman, members of the Riigikogu, about the transition to education in Estonian. I'd like a representative of the inquisitives to come this way. Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U185	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear colleagues, Prime Minister! On June 10, 2021, the Society reported on the questioning of the transition to Estonian education of smiling and patriotic patriots. Since time has passed, I'm going to make a brief review. The aim of the Estonian language development plan is to move mainly to Estonian-language school education, which means that teaching in schools and kindergartens funded by the state and local authorities takes place in Estonian. Both Estonian integration monitoring 2020 and several other studies show that there is clear support in society for the transition to education in Estonian. At the same time, there are conflicting messages coming from representatives of coalition parties. For example, Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration, has written in April 2021 that as long as the Centre Party is in government, there will be no transition to [full] Estonian-language education. The transition to education in Estonian must be a national priority. This is a very important issue for improving social cohesion, integration and the ability of people with other mother tongues to compete in the labour market. Which is why, in view of the above, we have the following questions for you. First of all, why have you set the goal of moving to Estonian-language education only by 2035 but not at a faster pace? Secondly, what practical steps have been taken to launch an action plan for education in Estonian? Thirdly, what practical steps have been taken to improve the qualifications of Estonian language teachers and to hire new Estonian language teachers? Fourthly, what practical steps have been taken in kindergartens to deepen the learning of the Estonian language and to move towards learning in Estonian? And the fifth question: "The transition to Estonian-language education must not be affected by children studying in Estonian-language schools. What differences and additional methods of transition to Estonian-language education are applied in areas such as Tallinn or Ida-Virumaa to ensure an Estonian-language learning environment for children with Estonian-language language? " Envoys of the Fatherland Group with deep respect.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U186	Please, Prime Minister Kaja Kallas can answer these questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U187	Thank you. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Honourable heirs! Yes, this education in Estonian is a common concern, and I hope that for some time there will be a common joy. I'll answer the questions. "Why have you set the goal of moving to Estonian-language education only by 2035 but not at a faster pace?" The "Estonian Language Development Plan 2021-2035" is a cross-party compromise document and the written deadlines are also a cross-party compromise. The development plan was discussed and it was decided to submit it to the Riigikogu in October 2020 when the Coalition was formed by the Centre Party, the Fatherland and the EKRE. The Riigikogu discussed the development plan of Estonian language in June. Through this period, the aim has been to switch to Estonian-language education by 2035, so this has been a permanent goal. Transitional time is needed both for the preparation of study programmes and for schools, students, teachers and parents, so that the quality and content of education are not affected. Second, "What practical steps have been taken to launch an action plan for education in Estonian? "The Ministry of Education and Research has set up a working group of experts representing interest groups of 15 members. This working group has mapped out the most important topics in the transition to education in Estonian. These are the lags of Russian-language students, the future of other native-language students in the labour market, the increasing number of other-language children in Estonian-language kindergarten groups and schools and uneven opportunities to support them, the limited number of students studying to teach the Estonian language, the quality of the management of educational institutions, the lack of parental education, the general lack of motivation for teachers, the workload of teachers, cooperation between schools, mentoring, content of teacher training, the availability of Estonian-language interest education, the role and responsibility of the schoolmaster in the management of the field, the development of Estonian-language pupils in a class with many other native-language pupils, etc. The next meeting will take place in September and the action plan will have to be submitted to the government no later than November this year. Third: "What practical steps have been taken to improve the qualifications of Estonian language teachers and to hire new Estonian language teachers? " All the training provided to teachers is aimed at increasing the qualifications of teachers and many practical steps have been taken. Since time is limited, I'll just bring out a few steps, maybe I can talk about some more later. First of all, and these [steps] are not in any order of importance, there are simply examples of the early language learning pilot project "Professional Estonian Teacher [in the Russian language group]" was launched in 2018 in early language education. As a follow-up to this, the early language learning pilot project "Professional Estonian Teacher in Basic School" launched in autumn 2020, consisting of ensuring high-quality language learning and piloting different language learning models. In autumn 2021 153 additional teachers work in kindergartens and 43 in schools. The aim is to bring the Estonian language skills of students with other native languages to level A2 by the end of the third grade and to ensure the development and support of each child in the multilingual group and class. The team of Tallinn University will develop new refresher training courses for kindergarten teachers and classroom teachers and school teams to increase their competence in early language learning. In recent years Ida-Virumaa has supported the development of Estonian language skills of teachers with different native languages at B2 and C1 levels. And there are other examples, as I said, that are not an exhaustive list. Fourthly, "What practical steps have been taken in kindergartens to deepen the learning of the Estonian language and to make the transition to education in Estonian? " Since 2000, Estonian educational institutions have implemented a language immersion programme. More than 30 schools and over 70 kindergartens have joined the program. Each year Innove Arno specialists train and advise the management and teachers of the schools and kindergartens that have joined the program. In 2018 the pilot project "Professional Estonian Teacher [in the Russian language group]" was launched in early childhood education to implement an additional Estonian teacher in the Russian language kindergarten group and these pilot projects are expected to last until 2024. Now the fifth question is: "The transition to Estonian education must not be affected by children studying in Estonian schools. What differences and additional measures are applied in the transition to Estonian-language education in areas such as Tallinn or Ida-Virumaa to ensure an Estonian-language learning environment for children with Estonian-language language? " 2021/2022. During the academic year, the Ministry of Education and Research implements for the first time a pilot action for schools with Estonian language of instruction, where more than 10% of students with a different native language are studying in the primary school. In total, there must be at least eight students. In the context of the pilot measure, additional support is granted to 23 schools in six counties: Ida-Virumaa, Harjumaa, Valgamaa, Põlvamaa, Lääne-Virumaa and Tartumaa schools. The grant makes it possible to apply the support education of 1493 students with a different native language in these schools, amounting to 492690 euros. Within the pilot action, schools will be able to apply two hours a week of support education in Estonian in small groups with up to eight students throughout the next academic year. The integrated support training organised in a small group enables all students studying in a school with an Estonian language to have equal opportunities to participate in teaching. There is certainly a need to think through a more permanent mechanism to support schools; there are currently only pilot projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U188	Now we can go to the questions, starting with Üllar Saaremäe. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U189	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your comprehensive review and answers. My question concerns your coalition partner's statement. If the Reform Party is still ready to switch to Estonian-language education, but there is no other party, and as long as the Centre Party is in government, it will not happen, how will you comment on this? The point is, how long are they gonna be in the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U190	Thank you. The question is, in fact, that our coalition partner also sees that the results in Russian-speaking schools are worse, and that means that children are still getting worse education from there. The dispute is about what moment this complete transition should take place in Estonia. Here, as I said, there is a cross-party agreement. If we look at this development plan for the Estonian language, drawn up by the previous coalition, where the EKRE, the Fatherland and the Centre Party were, and which was adopted during the current coalition, then in the long term it should be [so] that learning takes place mainly in Estonian throughout Estonia. In fact, which is perhaps also positive, it is that if support was not so high in the past, then [now] we see that representatives of other ethnicities are increasingly thinking that education in Estonian could begin in kindergarten or comprehensive school. That is why these small steps must be taken, which we certainly want to do under this action plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U191	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U192	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! The strategy paper or development plan states that by 2035 the school education in Estonian has mostly changed. How do you know that "predominantly" has gone too far? Scaled from zero to a hundred percent what does that really mean to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U193	Thank you. "Predominantly" means that it is in most schools. I keep telling you how many schools we have, where the problem arises. Why "probably," why the word? We certainly also have schools where neither the state nor the local government is the owner. They're private schools. We have schools in Estonia where teaching takes place in a language other than Estonian. And I think there is no way to limit private education in this way. We are still talking about the schools that the state or local government is maintaining. As we all know, the results will simply be better if we have a unified system of education, if everyone gets equal education and, as a result, equal opportunities in the labour market.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U194	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U195	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! You just said pilot project. I would ask in return: doesn't Estonia already have enough success stories to build on by transferring this experience? Now you have to do some kind of pilot project again and monitor it, then finally do the SWOT analysis, then you have the results and the metrics and all of them. It'll take time. Your coalition partner may be a little concerned. In Pärnu, where the Russian gymnasium has already passed on to Estonian, it is now slipping back, in the city of Tartu there is still a Russian gymnasium. How many obstacles does your coalition partner make at this point in order not to forcefully cross over? I remember you once had a whole plan when you made those decisions. Do you see it happening at all, or do we have to wait for another election?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U196	Thank you. Pilot projects... Pilot projects are to understand whether they could work on a larger scale. And I agree with you in this regard that there should be permanent funding if it is clear to us that these pilot projects have already been carried out in some respects. Now, you yourself have been in the coalition with our current coalition partner. I believe that this development plan, to which I referred, was a political compromise precisely so that everyone would be on board equally and we could take these steps in a row, so that no one felt that anyone was being harmed, but that everyone would win and contribute equally to it. It must not seem like a forced choice, but it must be the right direction for everyone to understand. When I say this, I still mean that we all have the voters we represent here in the Riigikogu. And when I look at public opinion surveys, we see that support for a common education system in Estonian is growing among people in other languages as well as among people in Estonian. I therefore believe that politically, too, it is increasingly easier to implement this idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U197	Ladies and gentlemen back there! There are so few of us in this Chamber right now that every quiet talk is very well heard on this side. I suggest you speak outside the hall, then you can talk here about the subject of inquiry. Please, Priit Onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U198	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Prime Minister! You were very critical of this transition during the previous government's term of office. I have the question, what is the plan of the current government, the government you manage, when you come up with it and what is the deadline for the transition to education in Estonian. Your resolve honors you. You indicated that your partner has also understood and can see that the results vary from school to school. You know, I've been looking at the results of these different schools, too, but I'm not that easy to come up with. In the Estonian Language Problem Committee, we had a review done and you can read what you want from it. It is not that, either by school or by region, it can be established that it is for these reasons that the results are worse in some schools. Why don't you tell me when to get acquainted with the plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U199	Thank you. Another expert group meeting will take place in September and [must] be ready to endorse the action plan by November at the latest. So after that, after November, you can probably also get acquainted with it in the Riigikogu and you can ask questions about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U200	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U201	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! First of all, thank you for mentioning one success story in your responses to the language immersion programme, how it has expanded and how it has been perfectly managed and coordinated by Innove and Arno specialists. I don't know how much you know what the Minister of Education is doing. Under the leadership of the Minister of Education, this unit, which was responsible for coordinating the immersion programme in Arno, has apparently been dissolved since 1 September. Some people have become unemployed, some have found employment in the Ministry, but in any case such central coordination no longer exists. How do you feel that such a step by the Minister for Education is justified in a situation where the success of the immersion programme is based on its central coordination, cooperation and networks?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U202	Thank you. But it's all going on. This central coordination is still being done. Just because the work is being reorganized does not mean that the work is not going to continue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U203	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U204	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good Prime Minister! In the meantime, I took away my wish to speak, because Priit Sibul asked me a question. But I'm not quite happy with that answer. When you were in opposition, you personally expressed quite resolute resentment that somehow too slowly this government is going to the Estonian-speaking school. But now we see that this deadline stays the same. If I compared our coalition agreement, I would even say that the program is less than that right now. I wanted to ask you how it's going to be. What year is it going to happen? And what is [the stand] on January 31, 2036? Apparently, all schools are in Estonian, aren't they?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U205	Thank you. I understand your impatience. As I said, with this action plan we will be coming out in November and then we will be able to answer these questions. Now, coming to the fact that I was very critical, yes, I would also like this transition to take place more quickly. That's right. But the political reality is that this is how we can do it. The difference is, however, that there must be clear instruments for this, so that we can have the same issues that you had. This applies to Russian-speaking or foreign-language students, and it also applies to Estonian-speaking students in schools where there are many other native-language students. They too must be supported. But I can't answer you right now here that point one, point two, point three, because this action plan will only come in November.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U206	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U207	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Prime Minister! When you talk about this transition to education in Estonian, maybe you'll be a little more specific about how we approach it or how you approach it. Is it as it was in Latvia that Russian-speaking schools were turned into Latvian, or are you approaching from this angle, as Estonia 200 speaks of a single Estonian school, which basically means mixed schools? Which approach are you going through?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U208	Thank you. I understand your impatience, too. This action plan will come in November, but the principle is that education in Estonia should be organised mainly in Estonian. This means that it is taught in Estonian. There are also schools that specialise in another language and culture, all of which remain, as is the case today. But the education system in Estonia should be mostly in Estonian, just as the cross-party compromise document "Estonian Language Development Plan 2021 to 2035" provides.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U209	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U210	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! These programs are all very good, which we are now preparing and preparing. This question has been said for a very long time that we need to finally implement it. But the key to this whole thing is that we need a teacher who can make this thing happen in the first place. We can accept any kind of program, but if we don't have any teachers, we'll be talking about how we're gonna do it here in ten years. What are the plans to actually train the educators? Only then can we get on with this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U211	Thank you. The lack of teachers is a major problem, not only the lack of teachers in Estonian, but the lack of teachers at all. And, of course, it has to be dealt with. One motivator is salary, financial motivation. We are making great efforts to find money in the budget to raise teachers' salaries, which will motivate young people to choose this profession. In addition, we already have programmes today concerning the hiring of additional teachers in kindergarten groups and also in schools where there are children of different mother tongues to help them. But indeed, the lack of teachers is a topic that needs to be addressed not only in the context of Estonian-language learning, but in general. Let's try to find different solutions so we can still have teachers.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U212	Good Prime Minister, there are no more questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Heiki Hepner wishes to speak first on behalf of the Isamaa Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U213	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Estonian language and education in Estonian are undoubtedly one of the foundations of our statehood; there is probably no doubt about that. Indeed, if you think not too much back about the time of the previous government, then, Madam Prime Minister, you were extremely critical of this government. You had a very clear plan on how to switch to education in Estonian, and you also had, at least according to your own words, a perfectly clear financial plan, not just in this way. And I believe you meant it, you didn't just talk nonsense, but it was still a substantive plan. I'll give you a little hint. Believe me, if you came up with this plan today and wanted to realise it, you would be able to meet here in the Riigikogu [at least] 51% of the votes. Let's do this plan together, and the Fatherland will definitely contribute to the realization of this plan! But if you think about it, as I've already asked, what really means to you is the transition. You said most of it's gone. Then, in a way, you could say that today the situation has already been resolved. 51% of Estonian schools are definitely Estonian-speaking, not a problem. It's not like that. And in the case of private schools in itself, no one has raised the question. We're really thinking state and municipal schools here. Above all, this really is a municipal issue, but the country should clearly come back here and support it. And then let's take the development plans that are supposed to solve this issue. We discussed the education development plan freshly, weeks ago. And a little earlier, before the big summer vacation, we went over the Estonian language development plan until 2035. I said in the discussion of both development plans right here in the chair and I repeat to you, perhaps you have not heard this, but if the development plans of this quality were in the municipality, the mayor would be made to ruin if he dared to come to the council with a little development plan. I am thinking precisely of the metrics with which we should describe what we want to achieve. The Estonian language development plan has set out a number of nine metrics, which have been described in two cases. The rest of us are said to think, see, plan. It's scandalous. This actually means that we do not have a serious desire. You referred to the fact that there was a coalition partner in the previous coalition who did not very much want to cross. Fatherland was also in this coalition, and I dare say that indeed, unfortunately, a coalition partner was not prepared to switch enthusiastically to Estonian-language education. This development plan stopped, waited for the time when the coalition with the Reform Party would be formed and that development plan could be implemented. It's a damn shame, actually. On behalf of the Isamaa Group, I say that it is, in principle, possible to switch by 2027, at most by 2028. We have a clear plan of how a university can prepare faculty members for a gradual transition from school to school for years... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U214	Please, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U215	... to switch to actual Estonian education without waiting until 2035 and then we realize that we have switched 51% of schools, we have largely gone over, we have achieved this level. It's a laughing stock! It's actually a laughing stock. It still needs a very clear input, a very concrete action. There is no point in dragging this over, because for those affected by this in itself, this is a very serious problem. They do not speak Estonian; they are out of working life; they are out of the common information room. And that's a problem for the whole community. That is why I encourage you, Madam Prime Minister: indeed, if this plan is now discovered in November, we will be doing this at a much faster pace. I believe you have also given your working group the input you had completed a year or two ago. [Let's] do it a little faster, let's do it by 2027 or 2028! Good luck to you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U216	Helle-Moonika Helme, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U217	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister and all those interested in watching us online! In a sense, speaking about education in Estonian, its necessity, importance, importance and elementaryity in 2021 is already like déjà-vu. We have 30 years of independent Estonia, yet we are talking over and over again about things that should be self-evident long ago. Why? Certainly by now, as various studies claim, there is a degree of readiness in society for the transition to education in Estonian. But I'm saying that there have been times and times before. A particularly good moment was, of course, immediately after independence, when the will and ability of our country and of our people to establish themselves were on the ceiling in all respects, and everyone would have accepted it. Well, if you believe in yourself and do your thing uncompromisingly, then everything you do or do is such a force that no one even has to argue or question. However, at that time, this moment was missed and the time went on, the more difficult it was to introduce an education system in the Estonian language in our legislative space in a categorical imperative. And as time went on, the more cautious it became for all parties who [now] are sitting in this Chamber and who have so far done nothing, I repeat, nothing to ensure that in our education system, publicly funded schools are only in Estonian. Instead, only a walking discussion has been conducted on the toes. Figuratively speaking, we want to start changing the walls on this issue now, so that everything else has already gotten in shape as it progresses. And it has happened as it has been let go because no one has dared or wanted to do anything. It's a lot easier to swing a Kremlin hench card at random before the election. Of course! And this is done by those who have been in power all these years and who have had all the tools to protect the national language and also for the transition to education in Estonian. Since nothing has been done, the sad state of play in the Republic of Estonia in 2021 is such that our state institutions have Russian-language websites, in our capital Tallinn Russian language courses are held for city officials, and the Language Board did not interfere in the activities of private companies in those years when Swedbank opened up with Russian-language advertising booklets and Russian-language advertising. In recent years, shopping centres sometimes feel that you are in Pihkva or St Petersburg, not in Tallinn or Tartu, because Russian-language commercial announcements shout loudly through loudspeakers. And then we talk about education in Estonian! To whom and for what? The topic of teacher follow-up has also been laid to rest. There are not enough teachers even in Estonian schools, not to mention that Russian schools would have a frame to take on, who would be able to carry out the teaching in Estonian there. We have an ageing faculty, we have a demographic crisis, and in all this, we set ourselves goals that can be solved by fingertips. No one denies that the transition to education in Estonian as soon as possible is essential for the continuity and continuity of the Estonian state. However, there are no agreed ways to do this. Let's start with kindergartens, that's right. But the idea of turning schools into Estonian in such a way that we put Russian and Estonian children together in a school of convergence is criminal. There is nothing wrong with the Estonian school. Estonian schools must remain as they are. The problem is in Russian schools and they have to be dealt with. It requires a gradual but as quick and painless transition as possible. And there is a special need to train the Estonian-language frame. The state must enable children with a second mother tongue to receive education in Estonian without the school network in Estonian being demolished and turned on their heads. And there is no need to impose on Estonian children the burden of integrating other-language children in the process. We need a rational approach to achieving our goals, not propaganda, not confrontations. We must not solve the issue of education in Estonian by trying to put out the fire with gasoline. Especially now that so many things have not been done in the meantime. The provisions of the Estonian language development plan are at least a specific objective. There hasn't been one so far. I'm glad it didn't work out. And if it gets a little faster, it'll be even better. But it takes political consensus, not everyone trying to stuff their toes under the propaganda, but the language of the country is still freezing out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U218	Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin! Please, eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U219	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Prime Minister! This hall right here is kind of a time machine. Speaking about certain subjects, I get the feeling that I'm more or less back in my youth, 40 years old, and we're discussing exactly what we did 20 years ago in this hall. In fact, that's not just my opinion. Recently, I met a friend of my student year, we talked for a very long time, it's been a while. And he listened to the way things really are in education. He also remembered that 20 years ago I told the exact same story. Nothing's changed. Colleagues, when it comes to giving birth to a child, you all understand very well that it takes a woman to carry her for nine months. Well, maybe seven, but that's not normal. Still nine months. And if you put together nine pregnant women, there's no way that nine women will give you one healthy child in one month. It's not like that! In this Chamber, I have already said a thousand times that you are talking about a political desire. You think that if all parties converge, not two don't unite, not three, not four, but all several there are in the register, 10 or 11, then that's the solution and let's go. There are no assumptions, I'll tell you a thousand times! Well, no one does the teaching material, for example, at the level it's supposed to be. On Thursday, I'm gonna show you some slides to illustrate this statement, right now I just don't have time. Teachers' preparation... Here, the pre-president spoke of the fact that in the early 1990s there was a pre-requisite for transition. I mean, there were over 6,000 students in Narva in 1989, and now there are much less in Narva schools. And then, in 1989, two certified Estonian teachers worked in Narva. Two! In five years, until 1995 the schools were completed. Over 100 Estonian teachers came to the city. What did it take? It was necessary to order the state on the one hand, and to have two universities offer the specialty "Estonian Language Teacher in a School in Other Languages" at the time: Peda and University of Tartu. But there's no order from the state right now. And believe it or not, there is no such specialty as "a teacher of Estonian in a foreign language school"! We'll talk about it on Thursday. In the early 1990s, people who I am not going to call smart in this hall, who, apart from us here in Estonia, are still smart, but very many who understand it, said: leave the adults alone, especially the pensioners. Work with children, we need to set up a system so that Estonian language begins in kindergarten and that this teaching is of high quality. Did anyone listen? It's been 30 years, and we're talking the same thing. Do you think it is possible to switch to Estonian in 2028, for example, in Narva? Of course, my heart hurts because of my hometown, where there are teachers who do not speak enough Estonian. Teachers whose language is invalid, who have not properly learned the Estonian language, start teaching foreign subjects to Russian children from Russian families where domestic language is Russian. Perhaps we could begin by trying to put the Estonian language on its feet as a subject? There isn't one! No. Priit left the hall, he'd prove [my story]. We went to a quite large school in Lasnamägi together with the Commission. We talked to the principal, how's it going? He relates his problem: it is a tragedy. He worked with two very good Estonian teachers and both, two girlfriends, retired at the same time. And that's it, amen! In Tallinn it is that if anyone has a good reputation in the field of teaching the Estonian language, there will be practically war over him. No teacher! There is no Estonian teacher! Some 20 years ago, there was talk of transition books in this hall. Well, if you take a child who doesn't speak the language and say: you are now going to study nature in Estonian. He must have an intermediate textbook; he cannot be handed a textbook used in Estonian comprehensive school or upper secondary school. He's gonna need a dictionary, some aids, and so on. I was just sitting there remembering the 1990s. Believe it or not, new teaching materials, video lessons, all kinds of cartoons, all kinds of role-playing, all kinds of brochures, workbooks, and so on. Well, maybe not much more than now, but they were better quality. Then there were old teachers who knew what to do and how to do it. I am extremely sorry that no one in this hall believes that Estonian can be taught in Estonian lessons. It is believed that in Estonian language class the child will never succeed, but let him go to physics or chemistry, and the teacher will explain it to him there. What kind of logic is that? It doesn't make any sense! I always hear: a transition is needed here, a transition is needed! No one's ever spoken in this hall, at least you guys, but what are you gonna do with a French lyceum or an English college? There's also state funding, right? But teaching, as far as I know, is mostly done in non-Estonian language. Why is Russian such a hated language? No one is paying attention to the fact that we have English-language labels on the side of the city here in Tallinn. There's an English speech all over the place. That doesn't bother you. Philologists say that Estonian will soon become pajamas, confused with English. It doesn't bother. But time ran out. I hope that you will understand both my concerns and the proposals that we are making on Thursday on behalf of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U220	Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U221	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Good fellows! Allow me, for a moment, to reflect on what has actually been great progress. I think it may not always be wise to whip ourselves, which we are actually doing here today. Although all the criticisms are directed against the Prime Minister today or against the government or against my party, from which comes the Minister of Education and Science, it has actually been an opportunity for all parties to participate in governance and to contribute to education in Estonian. And it seems to me that many of the thoughts put forward by the Prime Minister today, which certainly reflect what the Ministry of Education and Research has already done, deserve, in fact, to make a long journey and to comfort themselves that it is not hopeless at all, although it is sad. If in 20 years you don't think who you've been talking about today and who did this questioning has got anywhere, then 2035 is really only 14 years. And indeed, as Helle-Moonika Helme has already said, it is actually very important that the educational development plan states that the aim is to develop a common cultural and value area and a high-quality Estonian-language education. In the Estonian language development plan [in letter] there is a transition to Estonian-language school education, which means that teaching in state and local government schools and kindergartens takes place in Estonian, and [this is] a very, very signicant step. All the national parties and all the others who contribute to the survival and development of Estonian language and culture you should be grateful that you passed it here together in the Riigikogu and hopefully now, in the Ministry of Education and Research, the educational development plan will be approved in this way. I don't think it's right that we have nothing to agree on. At least there seems to be a consensus that the transition path is evolutionary, not revolutionary. And although I myself am a revolutionary and would also like to see a very rapid transition, I too will find that, in fact, today's path along which the current coalition is walking is, in fact, perhaps this influential and targeted road. First of all, what the Prime Minister has pointed out has already been initiated by the previous government and is now further developed by the Centre Party. A professional Estonian teacher in kindergarten groups and schools with Russian language of instruction is actually very reasonable [idea] when it is done in a cost-effective and efficient manner, properly, transparently and with well-placed resources. 150 kindergartens and 43 schools who have received this help, as the Prime Minister said, are not few. Secondly, the path that the Reform Party, the Minister of our party, Liina Kersna, will say by November, is a very important, different step. It is not only to deal with Russian schools, but also to deal with Estonian schools. And it is very important for all national parties, including the Reform Party, that we do not devastate the Estonian school. I believe that you will all agree with me in this, the Companions of the EKKRE, the Fatherland and the Reform Party, that we do not want to impose, as we have heard here, on Estonian children this burden of raising alone the citizens of the Russian-speaking population who are loyal to the Estonian state and who are able to speak the Estonian language. This means that the support that we are currently providing to Estonian-speaking schools according to the new plan of the Ministry, where more than 10% of children are not Estonian-speaking, is very important support. Perhaps this is the critical limit of how much the Estonian school can digest. I am completely opposed to Estonia's 200 plans to simply put [children] together. It would really destroy the Estonian language and culture, and Estonian children could start speaking bad Estonian under the influence of Estonian-speaking children themselves, including Estonians. It would ruin our language. It means this critical mass that our schools and children today can digest... Do I still have time to ask for more?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U222	Yeah, three minutes is possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U223	... what we can digest is the kind of evolutionary slow progression in which [other-language children] come to schools according to parents' judgment, not under coercion. They come by parents who have seen that their children have a better future, can integrate better, receive better education, and reach higher education. Today, 10% less children are reaching a university of higher education who have graduated from Russian-language comprehensive school. They reach a higher education institution, they get better education, maybe eventually they reach the Riigikogu, as we can see from several Russian-language colleagues. They have received a good education, they can participate bravely in the life of society, and they can stand up for the Estonian state in the same way as children with Estonian native language. And it is a very important thing that we do not impose this burden, destroy it, cause too much pressure, but that the parents themselves who have decided to do so will have this opportunity. We don't want to put a hand in front of you. Those children who want to learn Estonian and integrate in Estonian schools must be able to come there. Of course, now I will take it together, it is clear that in these schools it is necessary to ensure even more, for example, that the in-depth learning of Russian can take place for those who come with the Russian native language, and that the education of the Estonian language takes place as an in-depth study for those who come from the environment of Estonian language and culture. And we must have enough teachers. We must have educated teachers, and not just Estonian teachers. As a person of the university, I see how important it is that we also teach physics teachers, history teachers, biology teachers, all of them, through this so-called integrated study of subjects, also to teach Estonian children with Russian native language or migration background in proper Estonian language of mathematics, biology and physics. Methodological materials are also needed for this purpose. The language immersion programmes, as we have already heard, require a great deal of support. However, this is not the least that has been done: 23 schools receive support, 1493 children are already doing it, language immersion programmes of 30 schools, 70 kindergartens are not a small number either. Of course, we would like to have more, but we are on the right track and better to take a firm step towards 2035 today without a major revolution, but taking all our fellow countrymen along while preserving Estonian language and culture. That is the consensus we need to seek. Thank you and the strength for all of us!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U224	Please, Mikhail Lotman!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U225	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! I belong to the people of Estonia whose native language is Russian who studied in Russian school. I'm not happy at all. I understand well the concerns of the Russian population about losing any contact with their culture, their language and, after all, their country of birth with their or their parents' country of birth. Nevertheless, I am convinced, with full conviction, that I am in favour of the full transition of school education to the Estonian language. Mr Stalnukhin expressed his concern or misunderstanding as to why the Estonian language cannot be taught in Estonian lessons, why it still needs to be studied in physics, biology and other classes. The point is that the Estonian language, like all other languages, must be involved in all areas of life, so that it is a full language. This is one aspect. And once again, worrying about the well-being of the Russian population in Estonia, I would like to remind you that if Estonia became independent or only this process of independence took place, they were always concerned and such rhetoric was that we did not want to be citizens of another variety. Indeed, it is not good to be a citizen of another variety, but they have the opportunity to become citizens of the first variety, like all others. I appreciate those parents who put their children in Estonian kindergarten and Estonian school, but it cannot be [normal], it must still be an exception. The school must go all the way to the Estonian language, in all areas, in all subjects. Another thing that Russian parents and their children increasingly understand is that Estonian education, including school education, is better than Russian education. This is better than Russian education in Russia, as shown by PISA tests and many other things. At the same time, I want to say that Russian schools in Estonia are also better than Russian schools in Russia, but Estonian schools in Estonia are even better than Russian schools in Estonia. And every normal parent wants his child to get a better education. That was another aspect. The third aspect is that, once again, it relates to the problem of Mr Stalnukhin. This is where we take teachers of natural sciences, history and other subjects in Russian. We can't bring them from Russia. And we cannot use teachers who may be Estonian citizens, but who have been educated in Russia. We have a different physics, I'd say. Yes, ideology doesn't just go through social sciences, it goes through all the sciences in Russia, through all the subjects, it's an official program in Russia. So where do we get Russian physics teachers? Nowhere. But we are not going to train secondary school teachers in science in Estonia to speak and teach in Russian. It's an inevitable process. Russian teachers at Russian school are dinosaurs who, unfortunately, have to die out or luckily retire. I'm not so... I'll ask for a few more minutes, just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U226	We'll have three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U227	Yeah, and then... Ah, that's all I'm saying. In any case, I recommend not to delay with this programme, to do it as soon as possible and as best possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U228	Eduard Odines, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U229	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Honourable Minister of Education! I will start with the same sentence that started with the previous speaker. I too belong to those whose native language is Russian. But unlike the previous speaker, I am happy that I was able to study in Russian at a school in my native language, which provides a very good Russian-language education and a very good knowledge of native language and native language. And as you can see in this picture, I have also gained a pretty good knowledge of Estonian by studying Estonian from the third grade two hours a week until the end of the upper secondary school. I would still like to talk about some things today, even though we have repeatedly and repeatedly spoken about this topic in my nine-month career here in the Riigikogu, and it seems that we all repeat our thoughts repeatedly and repeatedly. That's what this means. We need to get these things straight. We have to get somewhere with them and sort of agree. It seems to me that we have never really agreed with you on what education in Estonian means and what education in Estonian means. How many Estonian languages must there be or how many Estonian-language subjects in one educational institution that can be called Estonian? We have a valid law: in fact, the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act defines that education in Estonian is in Estonian if at least 60% of the curriculum is in Estonian. Is this the goal we want to reach in 2035, or is the goal that 100% of the subjects in each educational institution are in Estonian or 90%? What role do foreign languages play in educational institutions? How many subjects can be given in English or German in one Estonian school, or why not in Russian? It seems to me that as long as we have not agreed what this Estonian-language school is to which we are striving, we cannot continue to talk. I do not envy at all the same working group that worked in the Ministry of Education to be in front of us in a few months' time with our agenda. What assumption do they make? Do they come from 60:40, do they come from 100%, do they continue to come from a segmented education system, that we have an Estonian-language school where Estonian-language children study, and next to the Estonian-language school where Russian-language children study? Here, one of the speakers suggested that, under no circumstances, so-called mixed schools should be created. What is this picture that we want to see in 2035? It seems to me that we have not agreed on this, and we are here to follow up on our own group's experience, our education. And we're talking, but we're talking about different things just because we haven't agreed. I really hope that this working group of the Minister for Education, if they have not yet done so, will start their subsequent presentations and presentations on where they have reached, what this vision is. And the rest is already this journey, the technical description of this journey: teachers, teaching materials, teaching arrangements and so on. But we could still get to the end of it someday. And I say that all Estonian schools are already Estonian-speaking schools on one or another scale. Because, as far as I know, there are no schools in Estonia that do not teach any subject in Estonian, even to some extent. Ida-Viru County, including my Kohtla-Järve, where I come from. Just recently, we had a meeting where all the principals of schools, the principals of Russian-speaking primary schools had to report to the city government how they have Estonian-language education. And all the directors say that we would like to teach more in Estonian than we do. Parents ask, the government asks, the ministry insists, the coalition agreement sets a goal, but we have one problem: we do not have the teachers to put in front of their children. Let's solve this problem, then the rest of the stuff is already technically in place! Is the language immersion school an Estonian-language school if the studies are up to 50: 50%, where the children come from in three languages, where the results of the test of Estonian as a second language are better than those of Russian-language children who graduate from adult Estonian? Let's make up the things we're talking about, or we'll all be talking about our own business here! And I am not tired of saying that the educational strategy discussed last week does not really aim at the transition to education in Estonian, but aims to improve and improve the learning of the Estonian language. Again, it seems that we have not agreed what is still the purpose of the Estonian state. Ladies and gentlemen, let us agree on these things once and then move on! Returning to the beginning of the Russian language. There was a fear or a complaint about the Russian-language attack on the Estonian education system, the social life of Estonia, already on the speaker's desk today. What's wrong with officials speaking Russian? What's wrong with Russian being the most popular foreign language our children learn in school after English? I don't see the problem. Why not? And the same party who talks about it could look in the mirror and explain to the Language Board why election ads in Narva City are only Russian-speaking, why this party does not advertise itself in Estonian in one of the Estonian regions. And as for where you can learn or where you cannot learn Estonian, either in a language class or somewhere else, unlike one of the previous colleagues, I do not believe, being an education teacher of Estonian as a foreign language, that only an Estonian language can be acquired in an Estonian language class. No way! The Estonian language must be heard, the Estonian language must be seen, the Estonian language must be practiced, even in a faulty way, but in every possible situation, not just in a language class. If we leave only these language lessons, the real result is not what we want. So I wish the Minister for Education and the working group success first in setting targets and then in developing an action plan. And if the Minister of Education fails to aim, come to the Riigikogu, we will discuss it! Social Democrats support the model of a co-educated school. Researchers from the University of Tartu have developed five different models. We have been trying to deal with this issue for over six months in the Committee on Culture, but the chairman of the Committee on Culture does not take this issue into consideration. Why don't we start there, make a deal, and then we'll talk! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U230	The members of the Riigikogu have no more wishes for words. The Prime Minister has also asked for the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U231	Thank you. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I had a long speech, a lot of things I would like to respond to, but after the last speech, I will actually be relatively brief. There have been a lot of good speeches and good ideas here today. But actually, sometimes it seems like you're saying we're gonna do it when you're in the opposition, but if you were in the coalition, you didn't support the same plan. However, I think it is true that everyone has a reason to look in the mirror because we have all been in power. And if we're talking about 20 years being the same thing, it's sad, it's sad, actually. I very much agree with Eduard, who says that we need a social agreement, which we still think. For me, this social agreement means precisely that no one is actually being hurt, everyone's concerns are understood so that we can all get on board so that it is not violent in any way. But there's one thing I want to do. You don't understand the concerns about the Russian invasion, but I understand that concern very much, and that concern is fear. The Estonian language is spoken by a million people in the world. Two hundred and eighty-eight million speaks Russian. It is simply not possible for Russian language or culture to disappear, but at the same time this loss of 1 million is actually very real, and for that we must actively take steps to ensure that this language remains so that this culture remains so that we can maintain this language and culture here. And when it sounds, let's say some demagoguery, like kindergarten kids go straight to high school to study physics, they don't go. If you hand out a physics textbook to an Estonian-language kindergarten child, he will not understand it either. And he doesn't have to understand it yet. The point is to go one step at a time. I actually thank everyone for the fact that this debate was very balanced here. I hope that, also on Thursday, if you have a [on a daily basis] key national issue, this debate will be balanced. And I really hope that we actually listen to each other. I also agree that if everyone is saying the same thing that has been said, but you are not really listening to what others are saying or what these concerns are, it is very difficult to actually reach an agreement. So, power! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U232	Mr Odines, do you have a request for a rejoinder? So please be brief.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U233	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I would still like to say that under no circumstances did I want to say that I am in no way concerned about the Estonian language. Of course I am. I just wanted to say that Russian as a very large and interesting language has its place in Estonia, in the Estonian cultural space, in the Estonian economic space. And I would not be as critical as the popularity of Russian in some region or field of Estonia is growing. I am equally concerned about the invasion of English in higher education and research, for example. I am certainly my groupmates, and I believe that all 101 members of the Riigikogu are concerned [and we wish] that the Estonian language should be preserved so that the Estonian language is known, that the Estonian language is beautiful, clean and developed. But in addition, many foreign languages, including Russian, certainly have their place.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U234	I'm closing the negotiations. We're done asking.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U235	Let us move on to the third item on the agenda. Thank you to the Prime Minister and thank you to the inquisitors. The third question is the question submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Indrek Saare, Eduard Odinets, Helmen Küti, Lauri Läänemets, Jaak Juske, Heljo Pikhof and Riina Sikkuti concerning the financing of higher education. Eduard Odines can introduce it to us. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U236	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. At the beginning of June, we presented an inquiry into the financing of higher education and the payment of higher education. It is motivated by the coincidence of quite a number of circumstances, several statements and a number of written documents which confirm that we are moving quietly from free higher education to paid higher education. The first thing we are talking about is the government coalition agreement, which talks about the development of a model of funding for higher education, how to include more private money in higher education. The Ministry of Education and Research writes to the Committee on Culture that this extra money, which can be included, can be expressed by introducing partial reimbursement of study costs or by creating opportunities for providing paid learning, including in Estonian-language curricula, and other fees at the university. The Ministry of Education and Research mentions that all these options would bring a system of private money from students and their families. When these two documents are put together, it seems that in a coalition contract private money is meant to be received from students and their families. The National Audit Office also notes that the perspective of the state budget is unknown, the financing of higher education is in a difficult situation and choices need to be made. In the opinion of the National Audit Office, however, this choice should be such as to ensure equal access to higher education for all young people. If we recall last Thursday's debate on a key national issue organised by the Socialists, we can see that the scientists and specialists who spoke here also pointed out that education and equal access to education are part of making our society more equal. In fact, organisations in charge of the education and research sectors have also concluded an educational agreement with each other, setting out specific percentages of how higher education should be financed. They say it should be at least 1.5% of gross domestic product. In fact, the rectors of universities are also concerned that, in the light of the current financing model, it is quite difficult to guarantee free higher education. We can already see examples from the University of Tartu where paid higher education also quietly creeps into Estonian-language curricula. Rectors say that their first preference would still be for the state to adequately finance primary education itself. On this basis, we have a number of issues concerning the sustainability of higher education. Similarly, the question is how the current Ministry sees student funding for studies and how much of the cost of universities should be borne by students and their parents or families themselves. We will examine from the Minister of Education what are the absolute numbers, how the state intends to finance higher education over the next few years. We want to bring these figures together with the European Union's Structural and Investment Funds, because it is very difficult to read in the national budget strategy. [We ask] how the Ministry feels about attempts by universities to apply paid education in Estonian-language curricula already. Of course, we are also interested in the support mechanisms that the Ministry intends to provide if paid education returns to our universities and how it is planned to reform the system of education grants and student loans. And in general [we] are looking at what it is like to include private money, how much private individuals play in this, how much businesses play, and how the Ministry and the Minister respond to the recommendations that we have been given by international organisations. So there are a number of questions here and I would like to have a meaningful discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U237	These questions must now be answered by the Minister of Education and Science, Liina Kersna. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U238	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! Although you really submitted this question in June, I think today is a very good time to respond to it, because the issue of funding higher education is under serious discussion. Last week I spoke to the Council of Rectors on this issue, tomorrow the meeting of the Scientific and Development Council will be under the leadership of the Prime Minister, where we will also discuss the issue of funding higher education. By November, the Ministry of Education and Research will have to provide the government with an analysis of the funding of higher education. So thank you very much for raising this issue in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, and I think it is a good thing that it is today. Maybe it's a little late, but thank you. Let's start with the questions. I realized I only have 15 minutes, so I'm gonna try to make it quick. The first question: "What steps will the Ministry of Education and Research take to ensure the sustainability of higher education, including the competitive remuneration of lecturers in the situation? " Indeed, today we have the Statistical Office's data for 2019. The general government invests 1.1% of gross domestic product in higher education, of which almost 0.7% is operating aid granted by the Ministry of Education and Research. As GDP grows very rapidly, we are expected to fall significantly, and we are likely to fall somewhere to the level of 2009. For example, in 2012, we had already reached 1.4% of gross domestic product. I recall that the parties to the educational agreement really said that 1.5% should contribute to higher education. If we look at the current national budgetary strategy, we will see that there has not been an increase in funding for higher education. That is why we can say that the percentage of GDP is likely to fall. However, as the state budget negotiations are currently under way, I can say that the salary of teachers was not increased during the previous government, but the support for higher education activities was increased by 5%, and we certainly want to see it applied by the Ministry of Education and Research, so that higher education operating grants will grow next year. I'd grow up just to help with the faculty's salaries. Rectors are very concerned because the salaries of lecturers with doctoral degrees are already lower in several universities than those of teachers in general education schools. Teachers' salaries are also lower than those of teachers in general education schools and should not be tolerated. But we know that universities are autonomous and actually it's up to them, that's their choice. But we're applying for extra money. The second question: "Which possibilities for funding students' studies previously presented by the Ministry are expected to be introduced in the near future? How much of the cost of universities should students and their families bear? " In fact, when solving the problems of funding higher education, we need to find a solution to the very different problems of higher education. For example, we have set the goal of having 50% of people with higher education in the 30- to 34-year-olds. It is certainly important to ensure higher education in Estonian, it is also important to have greater flexibility in higher education and to meet the expectations of society and the labour market, as well as to ensure the quality of higher education and academic follow-up. In my opinion, we also have a very clear problem that 53% of students do not end up with a nominal time. That's a huge amount. Reflecting on the future of higher education, three options have been simplified to cover higher education costs. Firstly, free higher education, where the cost of higher education is borne by the State. This is the kind of system that Estonia is currently implementing and the same system is being implemented by the Nordic countries, as well as Austria. However, if you look at how much these countries contribute to higher education, we see that Sweden contributes 1.7%, Finland 1.54% and Denmark 2.2% clearly more than Estonia, which also wants to offer free higher education. The second option is that we offer a predominantly free premium premium premium, where the state contributes in larger volumes, but the students have a smaller-scale ownership of EUR 300-1000 per year, which would represent at least 20% of today's average state funding per student. About this kind of system is used in Europe by France, Germany, Portugal, Belgium and also the Netherlands. The Netherlands has only a share of EUR 100. [Three options] are full-fledged higher education, where students have significant ownership, i.e. more than €1000 per year. We know that Britain and Switzerland, for example, are countries with paid higher education. Indeed, an analysis of the Estonian higher education system carried out by the OECD in 2007 suggested abandoning the unfair national training order system in force at the time. It was this system, as you remember, that the state said that some can learn for free and others can ask for money from the state. [OECD] recommended abandoning this unfair system and introducing a system whereby all students would partially cover their learning costs and have more equal access to the benefit system. This is the second option [before the test]. Changes in the funding of students' studies definitely require a review of the system of student grants and student loans. With today's system of student grants and loans, it is certainly not possible to introduce any kind of paid or partially paid higher education. These things must definitely go hand in hand when they are made. The third question: "What is the planned volume of public funding for higher education in absolute numbers and the proportion of gross domestic product in 2022 to 2025 according to the country's fiscal strategy? We ask that the amounts and percentages, together with and without the co-financing of the European Union's Structural and Investment Funds, be identified separately. " I can read all these numbers to you here, but I can also send them in writing. But let's give it a try. 2022 will be EUR 203.2 million for the state budget and EUR 25.7 million for the external funds, a total of EUR 228.9 million. This represents 0,75% of GDP, without [external] funds 0.67%. In 2023, the state budget grants amount to 201 million and 26.1 million foreign funds, a total of EUR 227 million. Share of GDP 0.71% and non-external assets 0.63%. In 2024, the same is still the case: 201,9 million state budget resources and external funds 27.3 million, a total of 229,2 million euros. This represents 0.68% of total GDP and 0.6% without external resources. In 2025 there will be 202.7 million state budget resources and 31.6 million structural funds, a total of EUR 234.3 million. It is 0.66% in terms of GDP and 0.57% in terms of external resources. It can be seen that the share of the country is very similar and the share of external resources is growing, but the ratio to GDP is decreasing. "What is the ministry's attitude towards university initiatives to find ways to charge tuition fees already in Estonian-language curricula? Is there a plan to expand the number of curricula that can only be studied part-time, i.e. paid? " Universities are limited to the provisions of the Higher Education Act. You can study for free on full-time study programmes in Estonian. The university has the right to ask for reimbursement of study costs in Estonian-language curricula, which are also offered part-time and are more suitable for people who are working. If a university of higher education retains the possibility of full-time or free-of-charge learning, the higher education institution has the right to provide part-time learning in general if there are interested persons. Opening curricula with only part-time, no full-time learning option is exceptional and must be agreed on administrative contracts with the Ministry. During the final management contract period, 2019 has a total of four such curricula in three universities. "What additional opportunities for student support are foreseen by the Ministry when the pressure on universities to charge tuition fees increases? When and how are there plans to increase the amount of education grants to accompany the cost of living? When and in what way is the system of student loans to be reformed? " The truth is that it has been true that if there are additional resources for higher education, they have gone into an increase in operating support and have not gone into an increase in education grants. Study grants are today allocated exactly as much as at the time of the creation of the study grant system, at the time of the creation of the free higher education system. These amounts have been the same. However, there has been an increase in needs-based learning support, based on the level of relative poverty. The needs-based support is currently available to 6,000 students, between €75 and €220. As I said, if more private money is to be included in the higher education system, it must certainly be accompanied by a change in the system of education grants and student loans, and these must be fundamental changes. We have already sent you from the government to the Riigikogu to discuss changes in student loans, and these relate to the fact that there must be one guarantor instead of two guarantors and interest rates will fall. The maximum rate banks can ask for when setting student loans is 5%, but banks can also offer lower interest rates. So a little bit more flexible we are going to do this, but this is not a sign that we are going to make higher education pay. These needs still exist today to make this system more flexible. I'll see if I can answer the last question. "What steps is the Ministry planning in funding higher education to include private money from the business sector, as suggested by the OECD to Estonia in 2020? "We actually have one of the operational support performance indicators for financing higher education institutions to encourage and strengthen cooperation with the private sector, and this takes into account the private sector's contribution to the educational benefits of the higher education institution. I have met with the rector of both the University of Tartu and Tallinn University of Technology and, in fact, they have completed the contribution of private entrepreneurship to the funding of higher education. They have cooperation agreements with companies. In this sense, there is no big problem. But in general, if we have agreed that we have free higher education and free higher education is also available to working people, then businesses will also have less incentive to contribute to higher education, such as some kind of cooperation agreements or orders, because they will also get their specialists out of free higher education. Thank you. I'm ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U239	And they're being started by Eduard Odines. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U240	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I touch on the subject of the pay of teaching staff. You yourself have given drastic examples of how a university faculty with a doctorate receives a significantly lower fee than a normal teacher with a master's degree in [general education] school. This situation is not good, is it not, and the brain drain from universities is not good for the sustainability of higher education. You also mentioned that the problem is that we cannot tell the universities in advance how much they should pay the faculty, referring to the autonomy of universities. How do you feel, perhaps it is the right time for the state to impose some kind of minimum fees and a little bit to shift this university autonomy to ensure that teachers are rewarded with dignity and that they work in [the] universities?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U241	Thank you. Indeed, when I meet the Rectors, I have also written myself in these notes that a quarter of the lecturers with a doctorate get below [teachers' average pay] or equal [wages] than the teachers' average. Quarter! We can't say they all can. That's not exactly the case, it's not that bad. I discussed with the Rectors how we have come to such a situation that today we need to talk about such matters that the pay of lecturers with a doctorate is so much behind. Well, then we all looked at ourselves and admitted that all of us had failed to do anything. With regard to teachers' pay, we have agreed socially on the direction to which we are going, but in the case of university faculty we have not put it that way. But perhaps we should do so [and agree] on how much, for example, the professor should receive a salary, and from there up or down. We could move in that direction, and in fact, this education agreement itself wants to move in that direction. [We] are not saying that if we contribute 1.5% of gross domestic product to higher education, the salary of a lecturer with a doctorate should be this-and-such, but we assume that if the state contributed so much, the universities would be able to pay the teachers a decent salary for this money. This would guarantee the autonomy of universities. So I think that we could rather take the direction of what the level of funding could be and, within this level of funding, universities could have the autonomy to decide on wage policy. But I made an agreement with the Rectors that, if we manage to get extra money for operating grants to higher education institutions during the state budget discussions, the Rectors promised that they would contribute this money to the salaries of the lecturers with the lowest salary.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U242	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U243	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You have just listed three ways in which higher education can be financed in principle: entirely state-funded, partial contributions from students and full student responsibility. Since you are the minister today, and you are responsible for this area, and we know that there are problems with funding higher education, that teachers cannot be paid a reasonable salary, that there is a lack of money, then be good and tell us which way you are going. Do you stand by being a completely free higher education and staying that way, or do you have another direction there? Why don't you describe exactly what kind of activity you're doing?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U244	Thank you. I believe that by the end of this year at the latest, I can tell you my personal preference as to what this system could be. Today I really have taken a very open attitude. We also had a debate last week on this topic in the Committee on Research Policy and there the professors of universities shared their views. It probably can't be the first, second, or third, but it can be some kind of combination. These very simple solutions are unlikely to occur. According to today's view, I believe that the financing model must certainly not reduce access to higher education for young people who wish to pursue higher education and who have the ability to do so. The availability should not be reduced. If we were to impose any kind of charge, there should be support measures in place to ensure that this does not reduce availability. The question now is whether, for example, this EUR 300 administration fee should be imposed if it is already costing more to deal with support measures to balance it. Yes, it is very difficult to say that one sure solution is ideal. I certainly do not have the view today that one of these three solutions is ideal, because we see today that free higher education is also not ideal. We can still see that 53% of students do not end up with a nominal time. We see that a large part of the masters' degrees, more than half of them, are working. Yes, there are those who work in the field of study, which is not bad in itself, but there are also many who do not work in the field of study despite the fact that we have free higher education. We also see the number of English-language curricula increasing every year. I very much believe that higher education must be an international education, but if English language curricula are made for students in Estonian only because they can ask for money, it is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U245	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U246	Thank you. Madam Minister! Actually, with that last answer, you kind of answered the question that I wanted to ask. I wanted to ask you this question: what is your assessment of this reform of higher education that took place and what are its problems? The same things that you have just pointed out here, I have also heard at the level of one of the university's management that, yes, these are problems. Why don't you go over them for a second? The second issue concerns regional policy and education, including higher education, in terms of the balance between regional policy colleges and the quality of education. How do you measure this thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U247	Thank you. I am no longer going to mention these reasons, which I have already pointed out, that our students are still not finishing with a nominal term and working more than the average in Europe. We have over 60% of students working, but there are on average 50% of them in Europe. Moreover, in my opinion, the great weakness of this system has been that it was not immediately linked to the cost of living. We have seen that since the year when it was agreed that we had free higher education, higher education has not received any extra money, but the cost of living has gone very fast, including the average salary [has increased]. So, yes, it is very difficult to provide the same quality education for much less money. Rectors have made it very clear that if we continue with the same system and do not systematically channel additional money into higher education, the quality of higher education will fall, and we should not allow that. As far as regional colleges are concerned, I think they have an important role to play in terms of both access to higher education and the position of regional development. What's optimal? This must be discussed together, I really do not have such a firm position at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U248	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U249	Thank you. Dear Minister, One way to bring more money to higher education is to increase the motivation of companies to link universities more and more. My question is how to increase the motivation of businesses to contribute more to higher education and to maintain or create these links. At the moment, the minimum objectives are achievable, but how can this contribution be increased and how can this contribution be seen more clearly?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U250	Thank you. After all, we can discuss that a company that feels that it needs certain specialists is making a training request to the university that it needs so many IT specialists, that it pays for them and that the university produces them, that it should train them. We see more and more cooperation with companies in science, and the state is also encouraging cooperation and awareness of how to order and be more science-driven in companies. So there are different ways. But I say that in the context of free higher education, businesses do not have such motivation. There is also a proposal to change our tax system in order to make it easier for companies to contribute to higher education. But these are already tax debates.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U251	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U252	Thank you for your answers, Minister. My question concerns this number-rich list, which you thankfully provided us with, as a ratio to GDP, the funding of higher education is actually decreasing. From there we can see that, if you take the resources of the Estonian state budget purely, in fact, in the next four years the reduction will be 15%, and if you add more euro funds, about 12%. But it's still a remarkable fall. What is your request? What kind of [relationship] could it be, and how could it go on in your vision so that there wouldn't be a fall? Rather, we expect it to grow, rather than decrease, as is currently foreseen from the data you have provided.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U253	Thank you for your question. I only read these figures because you wanted it. The question was very precise about these requests. But I do not think that there is any difference in opinion between us that there is a need for extra money in higher education, that there has been under-funding. I see Mikhail Lotman doesn't agree, let's listen to the speech with interest! [[They say something in the hall.]] But it seems to me that we agree on that. The question is how many millions are missing. I've heard different numbers, different applications. I hear there's a 70 million to 120 million missing. These are clearly very large sums of money, and they require fundamental decisions whether the state will allocate all the money it needs from the taxpayer or whether it is the state that is predominantly paying the state, but we will also open the door to more private money. These are such fundamental decisions, which I believe can only be made through a mandate. I expect that in 2023, if there are elections to the Riigikogu, all parties will offer solutions to this problem: the problem of under-funding higher education, how do we solve it? The voters will then be able to decide what mandate they will give. We all certainly want our children and grandchildren to have the motivation to study in Estonia's very good higher education institutions and not all of them to go abroad for higher education. For example, if we decided to do a full-paid higher education, we can imagine how much the number of students in our universities will decrease, because why should those who are able to pay such high tuition fees stay here at the technical university if they can go to Britain to study? It is a highly complex, complex issue and it does not have simple solutions, but we need to find these solutions. We must not continue in the same way, because then we will actually have a drop in the quality of higher education, and we must not allow that. I hope we all agree on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U254	Good Minister, there are no more questions for you. Thank you! We can open negotiations. First, Eduard Odines will have the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U255	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much for these answers. It seems that we share common concerns about funding higher education, about teaching staff, about students, and, as your last sentence was, about the quality that you say is currently falling. But I would have liked to hear more about your vision of these solutions. It got a little incomplete. It is understood that in a year and a half there will be elections and you hope and expect all parties to offer their solutions. We are now in 2021, and, as you yourself mentioned, we are actually falling to the 2009 level of funding our higher education. Perhaps it is high time to hear clear solutions from the Minister of Education and Research. I hope that we will have these opportunities before the Riigikogu election campaign starts, and we can exchange ideas among ourselves. We know that in the electoral struggle, everyone is very willing to make all kinds of offers who offer more but perhaps such fundamental debates as to preserve the sustainability of our higher education, how to keep our lecturers and how to ensure that all people in Estonia have the opportunity to acquire higher education, we must hold much earlier than in 2023 during the election campaign. Lecturers' salaries are, in fact, a major concern; this is also reflected in the quality of learning. You say that, according to the rectors, a quarter of the faculty earn less than regular school teachers, but that doesn't mean the rest of the faculty's salaries are good. This is where we should look for a solution. I understand that universities have autonomy, but perhaps here, too, it is possible to achieve, as you mentioned, a social agreement and agree on minimum fees and to finance higher education, universities on a so-called conditional basis, that they must ensure a decent remuneration for the support of the state to the teaching staff. Otherwise, we're not getting anywhere. The options that you listed, the opportunities that are common in Europe and which are also available to my colleague, Mr Western Forests, are either completely free, predominantly free or fully paid. It seems that the Nordic model could be the one Estonia could move towards. We know very well how we look at envy, how it is in the Nordic countries. Most people in Estonia would like to live in such conditions and probably universities would like to work in such conditions, lecturers work and students study, as is the case in the Nordic countries. But looking at your numbers, even Sweden's level of 1.7% seems completely unattainable to us in the near future. But who knows, maybe new coalitions will come, new governments and, as we know, the economy will grow, so maybe the situation will improve. Indeed, even if we switch to partially paid education, and even if this amount is up to EUR 1000 per year, let us be honest, for many families and very many students, this amount may also seem very, very large and unachievable and close the way to university for many talented young people. I'll ask for a few more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U256	Yeah, please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U257	Thank you. As for what universities are already doing and what we hinted at in our questioning, and what you probably acknowledge is that some universities are looking for opportunities to earn extra services, some of the specialties are being shifted to a partial burden, distance learning and other such options, in order to move between these legal possibilities of cashing in from students. I don't think it's right that university rectors are trying to figure out how to make extra money, what they can't get from the state. Of course, what was raised by Mr Padar is a very important issue: regional access to higher education. Unfortunately, in this context of under-funding, regional colleges are already being looked at and wondered where they could be cut. It is accompanied by this model, isn't it? Each university has its own specialties and elsewhere [a certain specialty] learns just as much as you can't. But here too, we need to look not only at the economic aspect, but also at which specialties are important in a region. Narva College, University of Tartu, is a very good example. [There was taught] a specialty which I myself have never completed, among other things. It's a local government arrangement. Through this, the towns and municipalities of Ida-Virumaa received a large number of excellent state and local government officials, especially Russian-language officials, who have an excellent Estonian language. When this specialty was shut down, an influx of smart and good young bilingual people in the municipalities of Ida-Virumaa just as it ended. It is also important to look at the aspect of funding higher education in the context of decisions on regional colleges. It can also have a very significant impact on many other areas, even where we may not be able to expect. The last issue raised by my colleague, Mr Pikhof, concerns the introduction of money from companies. Here, however, is the subject that we must look for ways in which we can motivate private operators, not only in order to make training orders for our employees or new colleagues, but also in order to invest in higher education, to invest in research. There are quite a few good examples here too. Kohtla-Järvel, where I come from, is the oil shale competence centre, where a lot of private money is invested, and this in turn helps fund university studies and research. Once again, on behalf of the inquisitors, thank you for your answers. I hope this is not the last opportunity for us to debate on these issues, and we expect good news from the state budget negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U258	Thank you. I now ask for the Riigikogu's speech chair, Mikhail Lotman. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U259	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister, I have a constant concern about higher education and its financing. This is such a point of pain, and it has nothing to do with the election campaign. I don't know how many times I've told you on this remote. Yes, there is little money and, unfortunately, the percentage of the budget allocated to higher education institutions is decreasing. This means that Estonian higher education is beginning to lag even more and faster behind our neighbours in the West and North, where there are quite different percentages, and I am not talking about absolute numbers. Here, in some ways, like Alice's behind the mirror: in order to stay in place, you have to run really fast. So do we, we must constantly increase the financing of higher education. Colleagues here have already raised the question, but I do not quite agree with how they did it. Unfortunately, I have not heard or read about plans to increase private sector participation. I have said several times that Estonia's target for financing higher education must be such that the total amount of GDP is 5%, half of which comes from the state and half from private enterprise. It's not that the industrialists are going to order any specializations they need. It can be done, but it's a very small part of what's needed. I have taught at several universities in several countries. In the United States, I was Stanford's visiting professor, and I was also a visiting scientist at Columbia University. There, the Grands play a very important role, which is given precisely for the development of excellence in science, because the university does not only aim to train specialists. Specialists must train someone who is involved in excellence, and nowhere but universities can be done, can develop excellence, without it there is no such good, level of specialist education. When we look at the ranking of the best universities in the world, we see that all universities at the top have one thing: they are private schools, absolutely everything. This does not mean that, and here I fully agree with the Minister, that someone should be deprived of higher education for material reasons. No one must lose their higher education for material reasons. Here must be thoughtful and highly effective grant systems that cover learning costs and even provide living money. At the same time, I am not so pessimistic and I am not afraid that students will work during their studies. Four of my grandchildren are studying at European universities, three in the Netherlands, one in England, and everyone is working. They work, study well and complete a bachelor's program... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U260	Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U261	...in time. I have also taught PhD students at Stockholm University. Compared to American universities, there is one pattern: an American doctoral student completes his doctoral thesis at the prescribed time, the Swedish doctoral student means, my experience is from the 1990s, it is now said that it took 15 years on average to write a doctoral thesis, because [the studies were] free. Indeed, the work of the Stockholm doctoral students was slightly better than that of the Americans, but not five or seven times better. So here's the thing that these things that come as gifts and pretty free are harder to appreciate. And that's what a man has to do. Finally, I would also like to touch on this issue of teachers' teachers. That's what I know about my family, where one's a schoolteacher, the other's a college teacher, a doctorate, etc. Schoolteachers actually have a higher load, an auditory load. But it's not normal that the most talented graduates don't stay in college and that the university stays with those who do it out of a sense of mission. It's commendable, of course, but you can't build a system on that. Salary is not just a sign of how society and work value you. I had two more points, but I don't remember them, so I quit.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U262	Thank you. I would like the Riigikogu Chair Margit Sutrop.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U263	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister for Education and Science! Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that this issue has been raised here. I think that the question should not only concern the issue of the pay of higher education and sustainable financing. Indeed, we have a lot more concerns with higher education: we could talk about quality, access, the needs of the labour market and sustainability of higher education in Estonian. In fact, as good colleague Odines knows, the Committee on Culture also intends to prepare the OTRK, which should address all these issues in a complex way at the end of this year. Of course, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Research, this topic is also in preparation and we intend to look at it in a very complex way. Indeed, when it comes to the issue of pay alone, it can be said to be an extremely important concern. Lecturers' salaries do not suffer any criticism, and there is a great need here, but [the same can be said] also regarding the financing of general higher education. According to the calculations by the Council of Rectors, 2200 euros are currently missing for one student. That's a very significant amount. We know that, for the free transition to higher education, the country gave 54 million, and, as the Minister said, indeed, the problem was that this [transition] was actually so-called paid off. Some years were compensated for the fact that private money was not allowed to be added, but it has been [amount] frozen and therefore its ratio to GDP has also fallen. I would like to say that, as one solution, it is proposed that the issue of higher education salaries could also be solved by universities themselves. Indeed, it is right that universities have autonomy, universities are not willing to give up this autonomy. Nor did the proposal made by the Confederation of Trade Unions in the Committee on Culture find support in linking it to so-called specific wage agreements, as is the case with the pay of doctors. And why not? Because the situations of universities are actually very different, the activities of universities are very different. One such thing that very many people who are non-university do not know is that the situations of universities are also different in terms of the other services they provide and the extent to which they receive research money. The situation is particularly difficult in small universities with little research money: at the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre, at the Estonian Academy of Arts and also at the Estonian University of Life Sciences. You could say that in universities today, salaries are different. They are result-based. It is very often the case that bringing a very large number of projects raises wages, and this motivation should be maintained. If we freeze and agree on some not only minimums, but we also say these salaries in advance, that's the problem. What can universities do for themselves? They can raise wages at the expense of quality; they can also raise wages at the expense of serving society. For example, the University of Tartu is the second host of museums after the state. For years, I have heard this story at the University of Tartu that we can shut down all museums and why we have to do something for the state. The university's historical building is actually the cultural property of the state that we maintain. Similarly, there are many other services that all universities do: school-based activities, legislation or policy-based advice. They're all extras that the state doesn't actually pay for. We could cancel them at universities, but that's not the solution. What, then, could be the solution? In fact, the solution is where the Minister is now seeking this solution by proposing three models. We deal with them very closely with the Council of Rectors, in the same way with different ministries, not only with the Ministry of Education and Research, but with a working group formed for future higher education. HTM has included the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Chamber of Occupations, as well as the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, so that further education, lifelong learning, would be covered. I'm asking for three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U264	There's three minutes left.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U265	Thank you. In this sense, I certainly think that, unlike the very simple solution proposed by the Fatherland, the then IRL, to go hopping! Over the free higher education level, we should not make this mistake. This solution is complex. We need to see how we can solve very different problems at the same time. We are considering these scenarios, and I very much hope that in this way we will actually come to solutions that are cross-party, where everyone will see that these problems, whether with quality, access or preparation for the Estonian language, or also for the labour market, will be resolved by the various agencies [keepers]. I also support the Minister so that we can agree on what is the level we are seeking. I remember from the discussion at Edgar Savisaar that the professor's salary should actually be four average salaries, a associate professor or a co-professor of three, a doctorate lecturer of two and a teacher of one. The professor's salary would then be comparable to the salary of a member of the Riigikogu, which we recently had a president suggesting that this could be the target. Where would it come from? My last one minute I'm gonna use it to look at these three models. What would bring money? This third model, that we make everything pay the calculation, shows that if 20% were not paid, all students would have to pay 4500 euros, but this is too much money for Estonian people. I fully agree that such a solution cannot be offered. Second model: ownership or ownership. This means that we need to think well about how this own contribution could develop. As the Minister said, it would be with the scholarships and grants system. But we also have a third way: 100% free. Perhaps we could review all the services that the state offers today for free. For example, half of the amount needed is free of charge under transport. With 50 million euros gone, half the problem has already been solved. Perhaps we could open up this topic and see which option is actually best for the sustainability of the Estonian state. Good luck with all these discussions!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U266	Thank you so much for your strength. Now we're going to have a little problem here, but let's solve this on a rolling basis. Riigikogu speech chair Riina Sikkuti, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U267	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, The last two discussions on Estonian education have been exceptionally sensible and argumentative in this Chamber. Now we are talking about funding higher education. I am very pleased that this analytical approach has been taken, and I hope that a very broad circle of people will be involved and really look at these alternatives and find a suitable solution for Estonia. I'll give you a few ideas for my part. Indeed, the issue of nominal completion and accessibility or access to education is two main aspects of the discussion entitled "A Free or Paid Higher Education?'. In addition to the fact that many students work. Students worked when they had to pay for their education, are working now and possibly will work in the future. In order to understand how and whether it is necessary to reduce student employment, I think we need to go far beyond how higher education is financed, whether it is paid by the student himself or by his family, or by the taxpayer. The question is whether they are working to cope or to gain practical experience. If you are working for a living, you will have scholarships, grants. If they are working to gain practical experience, in fact, there is already an internship in higher education and it can be strengthened to enable students to gain an experience that is valued in the labour market without having to work full-time alongside their studies. Perhaps there are other aspects that students themselves can open, why they have decided to work, whether it is about the intensity of learning or about some other matter. Second, a nominal termination. The fact that the student can be motivated by a question cannot always be just about money; it can also be about brilliant faculty. This brings us back to the pay of those who teach in higher education, so how to ensure that these brilliant, good, top-notch scientists are rewarded. It is also important for a freshman to see the scientist in front of him, to speak with him, to discuss in seminars. In addition to working and bringing worthy lecturers to Bachelor students, there is still a question of availability. It was really discussed here whether the costs of the administration system could be higher than the tuition fees collected. This is actually a relatively simple calculation to do, and given our small system and the large number of universities, my gut feeling says that this result may not be what we really expect. Really, maybe you shouldn't collect that small amount. But the focus should still be that we have as many smart and good people as possible who can work, it is a teaching job or something else, to give back something to Estonia. However, in the case of tuition tax discussions, in addition to the numerical information that is there, whether it is effective or practical, it should not be forgotten that, in the current situation, the fact is that the state, the taxpayers, is paying for higher education, in my opinion, a moral justification that the state can determine what skills people need to be trained with. When learning goes purely to fund students and their families, it is as if this reason is lost. If a person pays for his or her education, maybe he or she can choose what he or she learns. What is it that he wants? What kind of education does he want from the university? At the same time in our little system, is... I'll have three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U268	Do you take it or don't you take it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U269	I'll take it. It's a specific way of speaking.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U270	Okay, please, three minutes. [Your wish] was conditional, did not immediately understand. Yeah, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U271	In fact, it is very important that the country can lead, who our higher education institutions teach, what skills we have in the labour market here. In addition to this lever to manage the training order, these choices are now being made, and in addition to the salary concerns that have repeatedly been voiced in this Chamber today, I would now add a new aspect. We have the heads of the institutes, the deans, the rectors, who now have to make these decisions. On the one hand, the pressure is that English must not be taught; on the other hand, the pressure is that money must not be taken, then the pressure is that quality must be increased, then the pressure is that the wages of lecturers must be increased. However, there is no money, and these people have to make these decisions among their colleagues. They have to explain these decisions to society. It is actually a very complex, uncomfortable position to be in, because there are a lot of requirements, but the resources to meet these requirements are at a level 10 years ago. The 5% increase in operating aid last year is not enough either. I think that people behind closed doors can very honestly tell both the Minister and the members of the Committee on Culture how acute the university is, what these essential decisions are to obtain additional funding for next year's budget. Even if we have not completed this analysis and made a long-term decision on how higher education will be financed in Estonia, there will nevertheless be a problem and a sense of urgency in the budget for next year. It cannot be pushed anywhere until an analysis is completed or a long-term agreement is reached. This short-term concern must also be resolved in the course of the budget. Good luck with our discussions and decisions! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U272	Thank you, thank you very much and for your strength. More speeches, please, from members of the Riigikogu. The current talk round is, your thoughts and your opinions here to speak out. I ask the Minister of Education and Research, Liina Kersna, for the Riigikogu Chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U273	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. I wanted to thank very much for the discussion on this important subject and for the constructive debate. Indeed, I, too, expect the public debate on funding higher education to be constructive. I have been to meet with the rectors of several universities and discussed this issue, and I have also discussed it with the Council of Rectors several times. Last week, the Research Policy Commission gathered to discuss these three possible scenarios. One conclusion was that probably none of them are ideal, they should be combined. Tomorrow, the Scientific and Development Council will meet under the leadership of the Prime Minister. We will certainly also speak in the Chamber of Riigikogu as an important national issue on the financing of higher education. This is an important issue and we need to talk about it. Thank you for starting this! I thought I'd share some more information. We were talking here about how much business can contribute to the financing of higher education. I quickly looked at the speech by Mikhail Lotman that in Estonia 85% of the money comes from the public sector, 8% from businesses and 7% from homes, so to speak, but the OECD average contribution of entrepreneurs is 9%. So we are very close to the OECD average in terms of the contribution of companies. Mikhail Lotman said that when we look at the top universities in the world, we see that they are mostly private universities. Indeed, looking at the distribution of Britain's funding, 52% are home-bearing, 19% are corporate and 29% are public. We had, I recall, 85% in the public sector. In the United States, the situation is similar to that of Great Britain: the share of homes is 45%, the share of companies is 19%, the same as in Great Britain, and the public sector is contributing more, 35% in the United States. So, among the OECD countries, we have companies in Estonia contributing in the same way as on average in the OECD. Thank you for the discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U274	Thank you very much. It is now that we are closing the negotiations and this has been answered by an inquiry.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U275	Let's move on from here to the fourth question. Let me just say, just as a reminder that after that, everyone has the opportunity to participate in a free microphone. I call for active participation. But before that, the fourth question is made by the members of the Riigikogu Eduard Odines, Lauri Läänemets, Heljo Pikhof and Jaak Juske. The request for information is submitted on the 20th day of May 2021. An inquiry has been submitted concerning the procedure for corruption cases in the judicial and judicial systems. An inquiry shall bear the number 81. Maris Lauri answers the question. I ask the representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair, a member of the Riigikogu Heljo Pikhof, who introduces the inquiry to the Estonian public. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U276	Thank you. Dear Minister, Honourable members of the Riigikogu who remain in this Chamber! Indeed, we have submitted an inquiry to the Minister of Justice, and that is the result of the following. The coalition agreement concluded between the Reform Party and the Centre Party sees the fight against corruption as a priority for one government, and the relevant coalition agreement even contains a chapter on this issue. The Social Democrats will certainly support the fight against corruption, and we consider this fight to be important both at political level, among officials and in the private sector. At this point, however, we highlight a major deficiency which is not covered by the coalition agreement, but whose resources and responsibilities lie with the Ministry of Justice. This is the need to ensure a capable prosecutor's office and judicial proceedings. A high level of public attention to corruption cases is always justified and appropriate. Efforts must be made to reach an impartial solution where all evidence can be assessed in court proceedings and a prudent decision can be taken. The press has also repeatedly pointed out shortcomings, for example, in the quality of the material provided by the prosecutor's office, or has rightly highlighted the too long length of judicial proceedings. It is important to ensure that the rights of both parties are protected in both criminal and legal proceedings. This, in turn, means that procedures cannot be delayed for an indefinite period of time. Unfortunately, this has happened to several cases that are perceived as important in Estonian society. The excessive time resources for procedures are, by the way, also estimable as a cost to the State. There can be no purpose in a process lasting years, which ultimately has no result. On the other hand, it is very important to point out that the accused must also have the opportunity to reach a decision in the proceedings. It is necessary to set up a functioning system to ensure that the prosecutor's office is able to file a well-founded charge and that the court has the capacity to discuss the matter in substance within a reasonable period of time. In connection with this, we have a number of questions for you pursuant to § 139 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure. Since there's time, I'll read them. [Firstly,] we ask for your assessment of how time-consuming the procedure for corruption cases should be in court proceedings, so that corruption cases can also be dealt with in a realistic manner until a conviction or acquittal decision is made. We ask for your assessment at different levels of court. Secondly, what has been the cost to the state of resolving corruption cases compared to the possible illegal or potentially beneficial nature of the charge? With this question, we want to treat as corruption cases the offences laid down in §§ 17 of the Anti-Corruption Act19 and mentioned in Section 2 of Chapter 17 of the Penal Code. And thirdly, should a special court be set up in the Estonian judicial system to resolve corruption cases, or are there other appropriate and effective means or means of speeding up the procedure? We are already asking the rest of the questions on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U277	Thank you. I now ask the Minister of Justice of the Riigikogu for a speech chair, Maris Lauri, to answer the question, which bears the number 81. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U278	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will answer your questions in the order in which they were asked. The first question: "We ask your assessment of how time-consuming the procedure for corruption cases should be in court proceedings, so that corruption cases can also be dealt with in a realistic manner until a conviction or acquittal decision is made. We ask for your assessment at different levels of court." I would like to begin by pointing out that neither the maximum duration nor the minimum length of proceedings are included in the law. The period of proceedings must be reasonable. A "reasonable" is defined, for example, in the legal lexicon, according to which it is understood to be reasonable what persons in good faith would normally consider reasonable in the same situation. How can we assess the reasonableness of the trial period? In accordance with Article 6 (1) of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the circumstances of a particular case should be taken into account, on the basis of the following criteria: the complexity of the case, the conduct of the complainant, the behaviour of the State authority and its importance at stake in the proceedings for the appellant. Therefore, a longer period of proceedings is justified by a complex criminal case if it is dealt with effectively and without undue delay. For example, the Supreme Court has found in one of its judgments that since the case was voluminous and complex and the episodes of the crime took place over a long period of time, the pre-trial procedure for three years was more than a reasonable time and the pre-trial practitioner did not delay the procedure. However, the European Court of Human Rights has found that criminal proceedings lasting more than ten years are in any case unreasonable, regardless of the circumstances. There have been no such long procedures in Estonia. Today, it takes an average of 535 days for pre-trial proceedings for corruption crimes and 252 days for legal proceedings. There are very few examples when court proceedings have been going on for a very long time, 7.5 years, but also when it has been going on for one or two years. For example, the pre-trial and court proceedings of complex and very large land exchange cases lasted [a total] seven or eight years, but this was considered reasonable by the European Court of Human Rights. The problem, which is delaying the proceedings in particular in the courts, is as follows: The days of the hearing, when the actual hearing is held, have often been less than the days cancelled. There have been many of them because the party to the proceedings is ill, there is no party to the proceedings for any other reason or other such circumstances. So the question isn't always in court. As a whole, the length of the legal proceedings in Estonia is short compared to the average of the European Union. We're actually second in this after the Danes. Estonian court proceedings are considered effective. The period for dealing with corruption offences may be somewhat longer than the average number of crimes, as these are hidden crimes and their judicial and pre-trial investigations may therefore take more time in objective circumstances. If the criminal case cannot be settled within a reasonable period of time and the accused's right to be heard within a reasonable period of time cannot be remedied otherwise, for example by attenuation of the sentence, the proceedings may be terminated. To conclude, it is not possible to give a specific time during which a crime must be resolved, and each case must be looked at separately, depending on the circumstances. The second question: "What has been the cost to the state of resolving corruption cases compared to the possible illegal or potentially obtained benefit in the charge? With this question, we want to treat as corruption cases the offences laid down in §§ 17 of the Anti-Corruption Act19 and mentioned in Section 2 of Chapter 17 of the Penal Code. " The answer. The state's costs of investigating crimes consist of a large number of components and are not fully comparable between different bodies. However, I shall summarise them and point out that most of the costs are made up of labour costs and a lower proportion of the costs of expertise. But it all depends, of course, on the particular case. The sums that I will now provide relate to a medium-sized criminal case. In more complex cases, the price can multiply. It should also be taken into account that there are often, in fact, a number of crimes in corruption cases that are being dealt with, such as bribery and bribery, perhaps also embezzlement or fraud, as well as counterfeiting and money laundering. I will present some figures showing the average cost: at the Court's first instance, when it comes to general proceedings, the average cost is EUR 21372, at the prosecutor's office EUR 30828, at the Police and Border Guard Board EUR 117000, or as an average for everyone, about 169... I'm sorry! This number is invalid for me here, and I'm not going to tell you that. The reasons why the costs of proceedings in the Police and Border Guard Board are higher than in the Prosecutor's Office or in court are as follows: First of all, this amount only reflects cases of corruption that the Central Criminal Police is dealing with, i.e. more complex. Simpler procedures have been deleted where there is much less investigation and evidence. [Recital] why a more accurate assessment cannot be made is that this breakdown in two is very recent and the statistics are unfortunately not yet fully available to the Ministry of Justice. But it is estimated, according to these institutions, that the more expensive procedures are around half and that the total number of procedures is 50 to 60 per year. The [average cost] of the prosecutor's and court proceedings that I presented here before are already in these simpler procedures, and this is therefore lower. It should also be noted that in the Police and Border Guard Board, an average of four or five people are dealing with a corruption case, or a whole group of proceedings. At the prosecutor's office and in court, one or two people deal with it at the same time. In addition, the Police and Border Guard Board carries out operations that are very time-consuming. For example, a six - hour hearing may give a total of six - page minutes, but reading it at the prosecutor's office and in court will probably take much less time. The police also carry out various expert analyses by technical specialists, such as asset analysts and other people. The costs of the courts, which I have mentioned to you, are covered by the general procedure. For other types of procedure, the cost is significantly lower, which may even be 1/10 of the cost of the general procedure. It should be noted that this cost was somewhat more than EUR 21000 per proceedings before the Court of First Instance. Where the case is also dealt with in the courts of second and third instance, additional costs, which are largely composed of labour costs, shall be added. The proceeds of corruption illegally vary considerably between procedures. However, the analysis of the case law points to an average amount of bribery of EUR 400. By the way, these things are not being handled by the Central Criminal Police, by the precinct, which was out of the police and border guard's office. There are individual large criminal cases where bribes exceed average times. For example, in the criminal case of the Port of Tallinn, the defendants are accused of asking for a bribe of 3.5 million euros. In Voronov's case, EUR 126000 was confiscated and criminal assets were condemned to EUR 195000. However, this financial amount does not reflect very clearly the actual damage, as corruption always causes trust and reputational damage, which is not normally assessed in the proceedings. Studies have shown that countries with more corruption and therefore less trust in the country also have less success in tax collection. Less corrupt countries collect about 4% more taxes (as a ratio to GDP) than at the same level of development, but more corrupt countries. Therefore, the damage caused by corruption offences cannot be seen as merely direct financial losses. Corruption crimes suffer public confidence, the economic environment, the competitive environment and compliance, and cannot be given a direct financial dimension. Question 3: Should a special court be set up in the Estonian judicial system to resolve corruption cases, or are there other appropriate and effective means or means of speeding up the procedure? " Apart from some individual cases, the handling of corruption crimes does not require too much time and does not require the creation of special courts to speed up the procedure. Above all, it is necessary to develop the capacity of police and prosecutor's office staff, including capacity building in the areas of business, corruption and economic crime, as well as capacity building in the areas of environmental, cyber and money laundering crime. To this end, the Ministry of Justice has requested considerable financial support from the state budget for the prosecutor's office, and the Ministry of the Interior has done the same to the police. But, as you know, the budget negotiations are currently under way, so there is no [clear] picture of how much they will be satisfied. Qualified staff would increase preparedness for large-scale criminal proceedings, increase the pace of proceedings and certainly increase preparedness to deal with a number of large criminal cases at the same time. One problem is certainly that the prosecutor's office is very unequal with the defence teams in large criminal matters, usually [is] one or two people, and this could jeopardise the outcome of criminal proceedings and call into question, in the broader sense, the use of public resources for processing. That is also the reason why I have made an additional request to fight hide-and-seek. Thanks for me!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U279	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U280	Thank you. Dear Minister, Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise said in September 2018 here in the Riigikogu, introducing his annual review (I quote): "But we are talking about defining operating restrictions, for example. It is not clear whether the action limit applies or not. It is now assumed that each person must be able to interpret for himself whether his actions are prohibited or permitted. " He stressed: "If, however, the possible result is punishment, you must know what is promised and what is forbidden. " The Chancellor of Justice also stated: "Of course, I understand that many crimes are very difficult to prove, but this does not justify vague penalty rules on the basis of which almost everyone can be held accountable. We must not even allow the impression that the organs know who needs to be punished. " In his opinion, there is a tendency in the Estonian legal order, where it can be said that there is a person, we also find an article. Here's the question. I would like to know your opinion on whether you agree with the Chancellor of Justice's position and what you intend to do to put an end to this vague situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U281	Thank you for your question. To begin with, every honest person should be able to distinguish between what is acceptable and what is not acceptable. If there really is a question of whether this is the case or not, then it is always wise to ask other people's opinions and not to do it if they fail to clarify. But it certainly makes sense to make the laws unambiguous and understandable, and this action is certainly planned.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U282	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U283	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, I will continue with the point raised by my colleague, Mr Pikhof, which is motivated by the Chancellor of Justice's point of view. It seems that the fears of the Chancellor of Justice, which he expressed three years ago, have come to real life. I would like to know your opinion whether, at all, this violation of the operating restriction in a mixed interpretation such as this should be a crime at all. Is this justified under such conditions, when it is purely formal, so that no one will be harmed and no one will actually benefit? People who do not really need to be subject to criminal penalties can be brought to this situation and prosecuted and criminally punished, as the operating restriction can still be applied very selectively. What's your position? Is that supposed to be a crime?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U284	I'm sure it's all about a particular fact. But once again, I am convinced that the laws, including the rules of criminal proceedings, also those concerning corruption offences, must be reviewed again and again to see if they are unambiguously understood, whether they are up to date and whether they have encountered incomprehensible problems. Once again, this action is planned.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U285	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U286	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. Maybe you're just not familiar with all the absurd cases the questioners tried to refer to. I suggest you get up to speed with them, there's a lot of problems, and I think they should be dealt with. But my question is more about pre-trial proceedings. You have mentioned different periods here, such as three years and ten years at European level. But in Estonia, we have cases where the pre-trial procedure lasts for five years or four years or really three years, and finally, when the trial begins, the person is either dealt with dead or it turns out that everything that was stacked in that file is really meaningless information, because there is no content there. I wonder if you see a problem there and whether you intend to deal with these issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U287	Thank you for your question. I repeat, first of all, that I am aware that there have been very strange situations in case of operating restrictions. Very strange indeed. That is why I said that these things [are dealt with]. This is a matter that is now under review, and there will be a solution. And the exact same story was certainly the question of the speed with which pre-trial proceedings and court proceedings would be conducted. We'll have to check things out there, too. It is clear that if the team of the investigation procedure does not have sufficient resources, there are too few people, the matter tends to be [longened]. They can do it with the best of wills, but people are known to have physical limits. If it turns out, however, that this does not make sense, then I think that every person must also have the capacity to assess whether it is worth going forward or not. Certainly here, too, we need to face all things honestly and at times to admit that the procedure is going to be so long that it is no longer reasonable, or that it takes too long to prove one or the other thing, too much resources. Of course, the exact same question: how complicated this thing is, how important this thing is, how big the damage is. In many cases, it is very difficult to tell where reasonableness ends and where it begins. There must be a sense. I'm sure one person can't make all the decisions, but then there are colleagues who can always be discussed. Once again, all these rules must be kept under constant review. In fact, the law is constantly being reviewed, but it is being done in order. You can't do everything at the same time, even though we may feel that there are shortcomings in one law or another and want to fix everything at the same time. [Reparations] must be made in order. But I can assure you that these rules and the Code of Criminal Procedure will certainly be dealt with in this respect as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U288	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U289	Madam Minister! You spoke in a few words about the possible plans for next year's budget and, for example, that you have requested additional resources for the prosecutor's office. One of the topics I deal with today on a daily basis is free legal aid. How do you assess free legal assistance in this case? Is the free legal service offered sufficient? Do you have any suggestions on how to promote and improve it next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U290	Thank you. Free legal aid is certainly positive. This helps people with modest financial abilities to get help often before they go to court. Let's just say they don't have to go to court because they get legal advice on how to solve their problems. Often, these people lack knowledge of the legal system and their own opportunities and rights. So in this sense, the existence of this service is certainly very necessary and good and, in my opinion, it could be more. If budgetary resources allow, I would certainly like to increase this amount somewhat. We certainly cannot only think that we are only increasing funding. We must also look at quality. We have chosen the service provider through a competition. But there are also messages in my ears that they are not always satisfied with everything. The question now is simply whether the advice given has not been sufficient or whether the advice or the recipient's expectations have been greater than can be met. I'm sure we'll have to deal with that. In addition, it is planned to or is already taking action to develop electronic ways of advising people, such as in courthouses, to indicate where they can get the necessary recommendations, how they should fill in certain documents and where to turn when questions arise. Often people simply do not know what their rights are and what steps they should take to enforce their rights. This issue is being dealt with. I can assure you that this was one of the things that I was thoroughly briefed on at the beginning of my term of office, and I found it very constructive. But with these plans, it takes a little time and a little money to get out of the way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U291	Thank you. And now... Well, there's still one more question. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U292	Thank you, good Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. First, a little comment. Of course, people need to know what's right or wrong, good or bad, but many cases are complicated. In health care, there has been a lot of discussion over recent years about whether a relative, a former colleague, a neighbour can be accepted, whether a prescription can be issued, under what conditions. In fact, such complex decisions need to be made every day in a large number of positions. There's no clear line. Similarly, you nicely explained that what is a reasonable period of procedure is not unambiguous. The press has been through that even in the case of a very complicated procedure, the pre-trial procedure has been five years. If, in that case, the proceedings are to be brought before the courts, how can they be brought to an end? How, then, can the proceedings be closed? What can these steps be if it is found that a reasonable period of proceedings has been exceeded?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U293	Thank you. Well, it's the prosecutor or judge who decides to close the case if he sees this thing going to the woods. These examples [of situations] where [decisive on what is acceptable], and which is not, even in medicine, are certainly those where perhaps the matter should be discussed from an ethical point of view and discussed at the outset, that what is acceptable and what is not acceptable or how to behave in one situation or another. For example, if a person needs a prescription, but no one other than his or her husband can write it out, should we not write it out? They're probably gonna check it out. Such matters must be resolved rationally, especially when they are not [no harm]. It can be assumed that questions arise, in particular, from the continuous prescription of drugs with narcotic properties. Then the question arises as to whether it is rational. So in this sense, one must certainly look at the ethical side in a broader sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U294	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U295	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. The average corruption case is about EUR 400, as I understand it, but how much does it cost on average? For example, from the camp of good social democrats, Kajar Lemberi has been sacked here for years, and I think it's finally like a nine-euro barber's bill or something left, it's like it's all collapsed. How do you, Madam Minister, appreciate this effectiveness?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U296	Thank you. I certainly do not comment on any particular case. As I read before, the average costs of proceedings are quite high, but they also depend on the severity, complexity of the case, etc. Certainly these costs are higher than the average amount of corruption, but there are also huge variations here. In the case of corruption, significant losses are not measured financially. These are trust and reputational damage affecting society, the public environment or the mood, the economic environment, competition and compliance, which is extremely difficult to measure financially, but which is certainly very significant.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U297	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I open negotiations and ask the Riigikogu for a speech chair in Lauri Läänemets. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U298	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, With justice in one rule of law, it must never hurt any human being or ever be unfair to any human being. This is the one thing that must always follow the righteous path. We have no problems with fair trial in Estonia, but it is a matter of laws and it is a question of the whole general process that is influenced by the way it works. This, in turn, is influenced by the work we do here in the Riigikogu Hall, or what the government does when preparing or analysing laws, should errors and problems be noticed. We were talking about pre-trial proceedings here. The fact that research is being carried out, and the fact that large cases require more time, is a perfectly normal thing. But if we look into certain cases and we look at it when these cases have come to court and it turns out that this big bugger wouldn't even fit here on my remote control where I'm making the call now, but it would take two or three remotes to put together and everything that's written in it is not what the court has to do with it, that's the problem. If years are really spent on this, not one or two, but three or four, maybe five years, and if we consider that, in addition to pre-trial investigations, there will eventually be hearings, which will not last months or even years, but will last years, then unfortunately, these people will be treated either poor or dead. The biggest problem is that there is often a compromise with the prosecutor's office because there is simply no money or no health. It probably doesn't concern most cases, but there are cases. There is quite a problem when such things are possible in Estonia. That's one problem I've gotten my eye on. The second problem is the same violation of the operating restriction mentioned here. They just asked about this nine-euro case, really absurd. The hairdresser has cut someone's hair for 9 euros. It's basically a [simple] haircut, I don't think anyone's gonna do a haircut for 9 euros. It's like the machine's just out of control. If the DA's office really thinks it's corrupt or criminal under the operating restrictions, then we have to look at ourselves in this Chamber, and the government must also come to the aid, because something needs to be done. There is little resource and nothing can be dealt with when a resource is spent on such things, something is very wrong. I think it's a good example of the same... Can I have three more minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U299	Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U300	Thank you. A good example of violation of the operating restriction of the law is that he is somehow very... Well, there's something wrong with writing it down that makes it possible to convict people. On the case of Nina Neglasson, she was the chairwoman of Jõhvi Vallavolikogu. If I remember correctly, in this case, the honourable councilwoman took part in the decision to use the property of the municipality, the premises, to one company. He himself had nothing to do with the company, but he happened to work as a doctor with the company, so the company paid him to provide medical services. In life, no normal person realizes that a member of the parish council is not even his paid job, he has been elected as a representative of the public... None of us can think of anyone coming around somehow and saying that you've made an advantage for somebody. By the way, the fact that they had a debate in the parish council or in the council committee was whether to set the rental price at zero euros per square metre or one euro. A member of the council and the chairman of the parish council stood up for the interests of this parish and suggested that, listen, let's not ask for zero euros, let's ask for one euro per square metre. Hopsti accounted for over EUR 40000 per lease period and per square metre, which was several years after the company had to pay, and there was a crime. If you'd stayed at zero euros, there wouldn't have been any composition. If we think clearly now, it's completely absurd. Absolutely absurd! How do such things happen? Well, we should fix it. A fair trial, a fair pre-trial procedure should be a matter for all of us so that such things can not happen. The law must be clear enough so that police investigators, the prosecutor's office, the court and the people who act according to the law can all understand it in the same way and can anticipate problems that may arise. I would like to wish the Minister strength and say that we are with you on this matter. You said that these issues would be discussed in the Ministry, and we hope that they will also reach this great hall. We hope that they will actually reach the big hall before the elections, because often good thoughts and good initiatives may disappear in the meantime during the elections. These are important things. It is important that the state acts fairly on all people. That's what I'm gonna end up with. We are with you, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U301	Thank you. I would now like to ask for the Riigikogu's speech chair Ivari Padari.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U302	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister! In fact, [we] have major problems. The big problems are with [easy people]. We were talking about corruption crimes right now, but I've been following a process in two and a half years where simple people are caught in the cogs of justice. Their part was that their identity was stolen. PIN codes and ID-cards were temporarily stolen from them, the bad guy made purchases, and the police have been investigating it for 2.5 years. This morning, I spoke to the police, who gave me some shit about the time they were supposed to be in court. But there's been a lot going on during this. Even though the police have sent word to the debtors and other parties involved that the matter will be investigated and not made demands, the demands have been made. Today, a note came in the mailbox that an innocent bailiff demanded EUR 3800. It's life. In the past, it may have been a cliché that a simple person does not receive legal aid and is not very good at these matters, but I can see from the side that this is a very harsh reality. This is a very harsh reality, especially in a situation where the air is thick of all kinds of identity thieves, salt blowers, big financial providers. I imagine that I am dealing with a community topic that is said to have 44 episodes, but there are certainly many situations in Estonia where people are giving up. There's no way to overlook it. I'll see where these things rot. The good Minister said that at the beginning of his term of office these areas were dealt with when I asked for free legal aid. Isn't he in a situation where the police are investigating for the third year... I understand there are limits to police capabilities, especially for so-called small things. At the same time, the police say the crash plan is upstairs. I can't figure out where there's something to cut. On the other hand, the third year of this case is being investigated, and the only sin one of the parties has committed is that he was three weeks late in answering the court. I understand that everything is law-based, and he was wrong. That was before this thing got to me. I arrived at the law firm offering legal aid [and it became clear] that there were good reasons why he was three weeks late. And then I see that one thing is police underfunding. On the other hand, I see that free legal aid is currently only available for two hours. Two hours is an extremely short time for this whole thing. And when I hear the talk of state fees being raised, I don't understand at all. I know that when it comes to making an application for this one claim to the court, the state fee was EUR 120. Well, it's not too small money for a simple person! I'll take a few more minutes if I can.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U303	Sure. Three?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U304	Two and a half is enough. I, as a member of the Riigikogu, undoubtedly want to move on to this issue. This leads in this case to the fact that if such a move goes on, faith in the state and justice will be greatly damaged. Just one more moment where this basic thing is. If we are talking about the possible concentration of regional police officers, it is in this initial phase that the cooperation of regional policemen, the community's social workers and the parish secretary is important to support people who have accidentally entered such a circle. This, too, is a place that needs attention. Madam Secretary, there's gotta be some way to get this thing into some kind of frame. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U305	Thank you. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Peeter Ernitsa. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U306	Good manager! Dear sleepless colleagues and Madam Minister! I'm probably the only one in this speech chair who's ever worked as a forensic reporter, specialized in corruption. I haven't been to rapists' and thieves' sessions much, but I've been to a lot of corruption sessions, in different Estonian courthouses, be Jõgeva, Pärnu, Tallinn, Tartu and elsewhere. So I know a little bit. Of course, Estonian corruption is not like in Ukraine or Nigeria. It's not like I'm gonna stick an envelope in someone's car in a glove compartment or a jacket. Our corruption has sunk far deeper. Remember how Vyacheslav Leedo used to talk about lemons? Lemon is a million. Someone drew four lemons on paper because educated people know it's best not to talk at the right time because the secret ear can listen. But if you can see there's no camera, drawing lemon and finally, who forbids fruit, maybe banana, half a million or, I don't know if that's the case, but... So much deeper. This is, above all, a question of networks, links. For example, studies are being carried out that judges also participate in corrupt games, including insolvency practitioners, including notaries. I am not even going to talk about entrepreneurs and politicians, I think there are relatively few. But I know there's plenty of them, some of them are even on top of Toompea. I need to slow down a little bit. You can't talk too much. Remember the plastic bag? There were colleagues here too, most of them have gone to some better hunting grounds, who, with a plastic bag, took something to the head office of an excellent party. You don't take it with your bare hands, I mean. Officers in the Central Criminal Police, the hood must be highly qualified to take this company that you don't take with your bare hands. Well, Kajar Lember's nine-euro legendary hairdressing and all that and the process collapse. But then again, I remember the change of land, Villu Reiljan and the company, the respectable company. I remember when the carts were pushed into the courthouse of Liivalaia Street in Tallinn. 44000 pages! It was more than Nuremberg. Accusations! The big carts were pushed in like some kind of banquet trays, but there were only files. Actually, it was a lot of crap. In Nuremberg there were half as many as 44000! A bullet in the head, as they say. So what do I want to say? Actually, our detectives have become more professional. The judges too, I hope. But the problem isn't gone. The problem hasn't gone anywhere, but it's sinking much, much deeper. I remember once at the Werol trial in the Jõgeva courthouse when the price of rape seed was in [the talk], Ivari Padar might know how this thing works, and they pulled these giant balconies on the judge's desk. Rapiseme is a stock exchange, the price of it. Those [belongs] were about two times four metres of paper that had to be oriented because the game was with this rape seed. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] It was a beautiful bell. Is it morning?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U307	No, the morning hasn't arrived. But there's a question of whether you want more time or time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U308	Yeah, a few more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U309	Yes, please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U310	Such a beautiful bell. What am I saying? I'm keeping my fingers crossed for people who do this hard work because they won't take this company with their bare hands long ago. But I'm a little concerned about the fact that sometimes it has a light taste of order work. I can't tell you where it's coming from or coming from, and how true it is, but a lot of things smell like coming out in time for some kind of company that's supposed to be guilty. I stress that, when it comes to political corruption, we are all actually moving here in the Riigikogu, both the left and the right and the middle [row], in one legal space, we have always moved. The same laws have been, and the same restrictions have been, but some parties have been more eagerly studied and killed. However, some parties, I am not going to name names, have come out of the water dry. I don't think it has anything to do with them being extra clean and the rest of them being unclean. I think there's a certain bias here, like the one person who got the criminal sentence said there's a tilted force in the structures. I can say this with certainty, having worked for years as a journalist and court reporter on corruption issues, having spoken to very, very many or practically all of our lawyers, many judges, police officers. There's a little bad smell, but it's not too much fortunately. In general, I'm keeping my fingers crossed with the company that fights corruption, and the stronger we get in the frame sense, the deeper it goes. He's never gonna disappear. Men like Kajar Lember and many others, to which Ivari Padar here referred, are not lost. Unfortunately. But that's life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U311	I now ask the Riigikogu's speech chair, Minister of Justice Maris Lauri. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U312	Thank you. Few people do, but I think I got some pretty good ideas, and I'm sure there's room to go much deeper and wider. Once again, I assure you that the issue of operating restrictions is really being dealt with in the Ministry. However, before the local elections, we simply cannot come up with anything. I hope we can make it next year. We have other matters on the table in criminal proceedings, so they are also dealing with them. These are all complex issues in terms of legislation, so there is a lot to be done, analysed, discussed, and asked for the views of the parties. That's for sure. The other thing I want to emphasise is that crime changes a lot in time. Corruptive crime also changes in time. He's become more hidden, hidden, and that means finding it has become more difficult. Unfortunately, the investigation process has not followed it enough. Probably because there hasn't been enough financial resources, there hasn't been any knowledge, but probably because, unfortunately, bad guys are always one step ahead and we're running after them. But that doesn't mean we don't have to deal with it. I'm sure we do. Once again, I would point out that the desire to engage in hide-and-seek crime at the level of the prosecutor's office is certainly important. The Ministry of the Interior, which is managed by police officers who, as it were, go in and carry out these procedures, hopefully will also have to have additional capacity to go into these issues. I can assure you that we have spoken with the Minister for the Interior about this and that our interests in this matter are the same. I hope for useful cooperation with the Riigikogu in anti-corruption activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U313	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U314	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! As I have already called for you, it is precisely now that you have the opportunity to speak in a free microphone. Please register after the hammer hit. Peter Ernits, I would like you to attend the Riigikogu's speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U315	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the night. The reason I want to talk today is to fix today's Special Committee on State Budget Control meeting, where we talked about electricity. Right now, all the lights are on, and we don't have a problem because we don't pay for it. But, unfortunately, each of us alone and our entrepreneurs, too, will have to pay very salty bills. To be brief, remember, they were once five years old and were filled in two or three years. Now are the new times, and in this Brussels age, we have, with regard to the price of electricity, completed the ten-year plan in six months, so that the working fronts of those days should pale when they are still alive. The main character's name is the quota. The quota of carbon dioxide, which is quietly raised and raised, is none other than politicians anywhere in Brussels, has quietly screwed [the price] upwards. The goal is beautiful, to switch to climate neutrality, to switch to green energy. It's the kind of malaka that we screw up [the price]. We have already largely strangled our oil shale plants and oil shale here. The hope is that the sea will now be filled with wind farms, and on land [there will be] also, the fields and meadows are already heavily filled with solar panels in some places. They say it's gonna be cheap electricity. But take a finger. Right now, in fact, what I would call a mole, who has been popped and raised, has escaped from the cage. He rages quite powerfully, and not just in Estonia. Maybe most powerful in England. The consequence is that electric bills are still coming up with axe bills. Today's conference was attended by people who know the most about these areas, and [the message] was that everything was unmanageable. Molech's raving as he pleases. For how long, no one knows. Maybe until spring, but maybe two years, maybe another three years, because those wind farms that are planted in the sea [will work] hopefully in 2028 or something. But in the meantime, you have to survive. How do you survive? Who's gonna pay for the difference? At this point, I would like the public to be aware that we have already paid more than 250 million euros in electricity bills, but the year has not yet ended. Is he going to 400 million? I'll see you soon. The main thing is what the compensation mechanisms are, how to tame this mole before we reach that blissful green when one continent of many becomes climate-neutral. This seems absurd to me because our greenhouse gas emissions are less than 7% worldwide. What, then, has the price of the quota been when I say that in six months [we have completed] the ten-year plan? European Commission... Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U316	Unfortunately, this is not an opportunity under our Home and Working Procedures Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U317	Got it. In any case, quite recently, there was EUR 25 and the European Commission's plan was [that the price of electricity would rise] to EUR 50 by 2030. But it is already EUR 62 and then, when climate neutrality arrives, it will be EUR 350. Such an interesting future. But right now, at least we've got lights on, we don't have to turn them off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U318	I now ask the Riigikogu for a free microphone in Lauri Läänemets.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U319	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am concerned about the future of Estonian small rural schools. In particular, the new education development plan prepared by the government and to be approved by the government provides for a change to a very important principle so far. So far, we had the principle of "close-home primary school." Now it will be abandoned and instead there will be a "Six-class school near home," so basic school will no longer have to be close to home. The main reason for listening to the reasoning of the Minister of Education and Science, Liina Kersna, is the lack of teachers. The faculty is ageing, there are no teachers, and according to him, there are schools in which the third degree is 7/9. Class 1, less than 30 students, is no longer the government's opinion, as I understand it, sustainable. This whole process is currently affecting 111 schools across Estonia. I don't know what that little class is supposed to be like. Less than 30 students in the third grade have nine pupils in a school that includes, for example, 27 students. In my opinion, nine pupils in the class are not few for rural areas. If there are seven students in the class, there are 21 children in the third grade. I'm saying it's not too little for a rural area. Really, there are basic schools where there can be only a few students to the third degree. There may be a much more complicated situation, but there are also a great many strong subterranean schools in this sense, with 80 to 100 students. These schools have fewer than 30 children in the third grade, and that is a major concern. That's a big problem. In one way, it defeats these young people because they are deprived of the opportunity to be educated near their home. They're going to get a much longer, much more complicated way. In other ways, we know that every school is accompanied by an education of interest. It tends to disappear by cutting school. This whole process hits the rural areas of Estonia very painfully. The Human Development Report makes it very clear that the places where schools are closed [extremely]. This also applies in principle to cuts in schools, because usually the result of cuts is finally closure, because according to Excel's table, everything gets more expensive and ultimately nothing pays off. These places, where schools are closed, have a direct impact on peripheralization. In essence, there is now a momentum for Estonia's peripheralization. The problem is not the ageing of teachers, and the problem is not the lack of teachers; it is the consequences. These are the consequences of the imbalance between teachers' pay and [average] pay today. When we look at it, we can see that the biggest shortage is of teachers. 70% of them go to work as teachers after graduation. 70%. In five years, only 50% of them will be left. It has nothing to do with the size of the school, it has nothing to do with the age of teachers. It's a question of motivation, will and prestige to go to school in the first place. This should be dealt with. Another important reason is incomplete and completely backward regional policy. I would say that this is a policy of observation in regional terms. If the country does nothing and does nothing, then of course people move away from the rural area because you do not have a job that matches your skills, you do not have a job that pays enough. They move away to a big city and, of course, the children will be reduced. But it is not a problem of this region, of this school or of its municipality, it is a state-made policy. The number of teachers is increasing because these schools are still present in rural areas, but more students are coming to Harjumaa. They make new schools, they need new teachers. Of course, the tension is increasing. This is an example of a very ineffective policy, including regional policy. What we really should be doing is to have a fair regional policy for all regions. What we should do is first pay teachers 120% of the average wage in Estonia. The minimum wage for teachers should be 120% of the Estonian average. Let's see how it works, and then we'll start deciding, not rushing to shut it down. At the end of the day, the biggest problem is that it is such a big and so important decision, but it is taken by the government. We do not have this debate in the Riigikogu. That's a real shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-20_U320	Thank you. Good colleagues, there are no more calls in the free microphone, and today's session is over. Thank you, and a safe way home.
