ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Let's start our Thursday session. There are only two things on the agenda today, but before we go to the agenda, it is possible to pass on drafts and enquiries. I don't see a wish like that. In that case, we'll do the presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U2	62 members of the Riigikogu signed up to be present.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U3	Today we have the first item on the agenda for the hearing of the Financial Supervision Authority's 2020 report. Its procedure is as follows. First, the presentation by Kilvar Kessler, Chairman of the Management Board of the Financial Supervision Authority, is up to 20 minutes, followed by questions from members of the Riigikogu. Any member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to the rapporteur. This will be followed by negotiations where representatives of the political groups can take the floor. Now I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Kilvar Kessler. Please, ladies and gentlemen, keep it down!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U5	Vice-Chairman.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U6	A vice-president, I understand. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to report to you on the activities of the Financial Supervision Authority for 2020.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U7	Can I have a minute? We have a procedural question on Mikhail Lotman.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U8	Couldn't there be any way to get that microphone...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U9	Yeah, get your microphones closer to your mouth.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U10	Now, let's try it. You hear that? Very good! Let's go again. Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to report to you on the activities of the Financial Supervision Authority for 2020. The corresponding requirement follows from § 51 (4) of the Financial Supervision Authority Act and forms part of international practice according to which an independent financial supervisory authority reports to Parliament. In this year's brief review of the situation in the Estonian financial market and financial supervision, I will address three important issues. Firstly, the main financial market risks of 2020 and their treatment by the Financial Supervision Authority. Secondly, developments in the Financial Supervision Authority and the financial market safety net in general. Thirdly, financial market trends and some bottlenecks in the coming years. The Corona virus was the negative main hero of 2020 for financial markets and supervisors. At the beginning of the year, the situation was alarming globally, as the nature, distribution and impact of the new corona virus were unknown. For example, German Chancellor Angela Merkel, in his unprecedented television appearance on 18 March 2020, stated that the corona crisis was the most serious challenge facing the people after World War II. Fortunately, the initial more pessimistic scenarios for the devastating effects of the virus on the financial sector did not materialise either. This was avoided and evened out by the activities of governments, central banks and financial supervision to support the economy and the financial sector, as well as the overall balanced activity in controlling the virus. The corona crisis of 2020 meant that we, the Financial Supervision Authority, focused mainly on two risks. The first risk, which could quickly materialise, was operational or, in other words, operational risk. When the worst-case scenario started, financial intermediaries would not be able to provide services to people due to the illness of employees and employees of contractual partners. This, in turn, would have amplified the collapse of the economy and, at worst, would have led to the panic of the population. If payments can't be made online, you can't buy with a card in the store and the ATM is empty of money, then anxiety is natural and worries are quick to come. The Estonian financial sector managed the operational risk very well in the crisis. There were also good preconditions for this, as financial supervision has for years consistently required and verified the existence and testing of recovery plans from larger market participants. The reality of the Corona virus showed, in essence, that previous requirements are reasonable. As Alexander Suvorov said: heavy drills, light battle. The second most important risk in our field of view was credit risk. Here, as a negative development, people and businesses are no longer able to meet their loan obligations in times of crisis and banks face very serious credit losses. In certain cases, serious credit losses may mean insolvency of the bank and loss of own funds for depositors to the extent that the Guarantee Fund is not insured but also, by impact on the Guarantee Fund, a proper addition to the country's loan burden and ultimately to the taxpayer. In a classic way, sufficient capital buffers are one of the main stabilisers for credit risk. The largest capital buffer of Estonian banks is accumulated profits. In our view, it was therefore reasonable to freeze existing profit buffers as the corona crisis deepened at the beginning of 2020 in order to maintain the banks' ability to bear credit losses. The Financial Supervision Authority also launched a corresponding discussion with colleagues from Frankfurt and Stockholm, as there too are partner supervisory authorities of our major banks. The result was a later agreement across the European Union that banks would not pay their profits since the corona crisis in 2020. In addition, we also worked towards fulfilling our loan obligations. On the one hand, we prepared the environment to give borrowers in difficulty the possibility of temporarily delaying their commitments, while on the other hand we also put incentives and reliefs in place for banks to allow for a deferral of their debt obligations. The majority of the financial supervisory authorities in the European Union had similar ideas and plans. A common framework for the implementation of payment moratoriums was created. On this basis, Estonian banks agreed to a private moratorium in spring 2020, following the uniform conditions laid down by financial supervisors. In addition, we directed the market and debtors through a letter of formal notice on the restructuring of loans, where we explained good and bad practices in the restructuring of loans. These things are easy and pleasant for you here to describe, but behind this seeming simplicity there is a very, very large amount of work, with a proper and up-to-date collection of information on working hours I would like to thank all of us here, both within the Financial Supervision Authority and with us, for this difficult year of work in 2020. It was complicated, we stuck together, we supported each other. A few more words about the Financial Supervision Authority's work and organization. Our statutory central role in financial supervision is to contribute to the preservation of financial stability and to keep markets fair and transparent, or more precisely, legally functioning. Another important task is to address the crisis quickly and at the least cost to society when a bank or insurance company, for example, becomes insolvent. In the reporting year, we did a reform of the internal organisation of the Financial Supervision Authority, seeking even greater efficiency and the best use of know-how in a small organisation. In addition, in order to achieve the economies of scale, we merged the activities of the crisis resolution unit with those of the Guarantee Fund. The role of the Guarantee Fund in resolution is changing. According to European trends, the Fund should become more active in resolving weak banks. This is similar to the US approach, where a guarantee fund or a federal guarantee fund there has a pretty strong role to play in the liquidation, winding up of banks. In a small country like Estonia, it is wise to maintain and strengthen competence centres, not to spray and dissolve them. That is why we have been putting our backs together with the Guarantee Fund since 2020. An unexpected crisis in the corona caused the inspection to switch to teleworking. We had prepared for it before, even tested it, and therefore teleworking was regularly carried out. Remote work in turn led to a well-thought-out transition to mobile jobs, where inspection tools allow workers to move. Such a solution will help our people to participate even better in the work of the euro area banking supervision SSM, which we are members of and within the framework of which we are supervising the capital of the three largest banks in Estonia. Although the corona virus directed us to telework at the beginning of 2020, when the health risks subsided, we managed to carry out 10 on-site inspections, compared to 203 on-site inspections. In 2020, the Bureau took 413 different decisions, an administrative act, and adopted 26 recommended guidelines. Of course, the figures in the Bureau's decisions and monitoring procedures are not quite mirrored. For example, in 2020, we decided to grant eight new licences, but 20 applications were submitted. On the basis of our observations, we had to file 30 criminal complaints with the investigating authorities, mainly in terms of unauthorized activity or other signs of fraud. In the last, third block, we will see what are the main trends in the financial markets and in the work of financial supervisors. Estonian digital society has worked well in the financial sector. Smooth teleworking in the corona crisis and comparisons with similar countries show, among other things, that we are still at the digital peak of Europe together with the Baltic States, the Nordic countries and the Netherlands. The increasing digitalisation is amplifying cyber risks. Last autumn we observed, for example, a rather massive increase in cyber attacks on banks not only in Estonia but throughout the Baltic States and Nordic countries. In general, banking was doing quite well with these attacks, so the public and customers did not understand it very well. In turn, cyber-risks may, in worse cases, become financial risks and service disruptions for the financial intermediary. The focus of the Financial Supervision Authority is increasingly on assessing the capacity of market participants to address cyber-risks, monitoring their IT organisation and its sustainable renewal. According to the current strategy of the Financial Supervision Authority, we are more open to technological innovation in the financial sector, we are trying to encourage it as we push forward, but by carefully considering innovations on the scale of opportunities and risks, bearing in mind the benefits to society, but also considering the taxpayer's ability to carry out these tests. We believe that it is not in anyone's interest to place risks in Estonia without the creation of correlated jobs and tax revenue. Not only in Estonia, but in the European Union as a whole, we need to consider, discuss and decide whether we welcome capital from each country or whether there are regions that are not welcome, even if the investment is accompanied by a promise of numerous jobs and tax revenues. I am referring to this issue because the globalised financial sector is quite open to geopolitical risks and the uncertainty here is converted by financial intermediaries into conservativeness. With regard to dig, there are various reasons why we can see that there is more investment in cryptoware. Crypto reaching a normal investor means increasing the risks of intermediaries and, in turn, the need to regulate activities in the public interest. In Estonia, the authorisation of crypto intermediaries is within the competence of the Money Laundering Data Bureau and we understand that the main risks of this business relate to money laundering and terrorist financing and non-compliance with international financial sanctions, as well as fraud. We are here to assist ministries in developing optimal solutions for risk mitigation. In the coming years, a rather comprehensive legal framework will gradually enter into force to integrate green issues into financial sector disclosure standards. In doing so, the public will be able to assess the policies and activities of financial intermediaries in the field of environmental sustainability. In addition, investment in the green economy is encouraged by capital standards that can make credit more costly for competing non-green or brown technologies and industries. The task of financial supervisors is to prepare the capacity to implement future standards, as well as to remove practical bottlenecks. The lack of taxonomy and questionable data quality has so far been a problem which has enabled greenwashing. The Court of Justice of the European Union has ruled that banking supervision in the SSM perimeter of the euro area is not only large banks but all credit institutions authorised in the euro area. The Baltic financial market is very banking-driven. Banking is concentrated and in turn quite integrated across the Baltic States. It is important to our economy what decisions are made by large foreign banks. Moreover, it is increasingly important that our growing smaller banks do not overcome unnecessary bureaucracy and lose competitiveness in the common market. Let us be honest, however, it is still a long way to go to the single market in banking. The broader view is not too good a situation where the so-called "home markets" in the European Union are jealously protected by barriers for banks operating there. In the interests of Estonia in general, there could and should be a common market, as it increases competition between us and elsewhere and thus suppresses the prices of services. It also offers opportunities for our new banks, our small banks to grow, to take up the market in the European Union. In the European Union, we express our views at the table, argue and stand up for them. For our market and Estonia's interests. Everyone does it. Everyone does it from their own perspective, and the common part is a rule. In 2020, we completed six misdemeanour proceedings, with a total of EUR 1.2 million in fines, which is more than in previous years. [It can be said] not only from the surface of these procedures, but we have been saying this for seven years now, so that, in order to better protect financial stability and increase the financial sector's ownership, the procedure for deciding on financial penalties must be modernised. The existence of light criminal proceedings, i.e. misdemeanour proceedings against offences as a drug, simply does not fit into the financial sector. This is so costly with its derivatives responsibility and other aspects. Here, too, Benjamin Franklin's evergreen Time is money, one of the founding fathers of the United States, which our destiny mates in other European countries have been able to assess when shaping the framework of proceedings. For our part, we have also developed and tabled a corresponding draft of the fines procedure instead of the existing misdemeanour procedure. In the interests of financial stability and fair functioning of the market, it is important to provide consumers with the possibility of resolving disagreements with financial intermediaries in a pre-litigation or out-of-court manner. A fast, free and simple procedure for the consumer and a binding solution are in everyone's interest. Once again, the professional financial intermediary likes a satisfied client, but in the event of a dispute, also the quick decision of the competent solver to move forward with life. In my opinion, this dissenting scheme is a good one and it should be at the Financial Supervision Authority. This will achieve good synergies and economies of scale. We have the relevant know-how, we see the service life map as a whole, and we also have some administrative capacity. In many countries of the European Union, the financial ombudsman is or is part of financial supervision. This would be an additional good option in addition to existing dispute resolution schemes. Last year, I told you that the upcoming corona crisis will not be easy for the financial market or for supervision. I stated that a stable legal framework and less time-driven decisions are a good help here. It also requires good knowledge, great experience, but also a firm hand in terms of supervision. In our role, the Financial Supervision Authority and I fulfilled this promise by keeping the stability of the Estonian financial market on track. I would also like to thank you, Parliament, and each and every one of you, for keeping the legal framework stable together and not making decisions on the momentum of the moment. I would also like to thank you, among other things, for helping us quickly to correct the legal framework, which will enable us once again to warn consumers of possible fraudulent schemes and threats to the financial market. I confirm that I will continue to make a maximum contribution to the statutory objective of the Financial Supervision Authority with my colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U11	Thank you very much. Now the ambassadors can ask questions. Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U12	Thank you very much for your very interesting presentation. It is a good thing that you stopped at the beginning of the crisis of the corona, which is beginning to begin to forget, where we actually looked relatively uncertainly into the future a little more than a year ago, but it is now known that we have been through it successfully in terms of the financial landscape. My question is more forward-looking. Financial stability means rules, rules mean bureaucracy. We have a lot of financial resources coming to the financial market in connection with the withdrawal of money from the second pension pillar. About a quarter of people are taking money out of it, and the amount is significant, and this money is starting to look for placement opportunities. Savings and Loan Associations is my more specific question. Would this area need more supervision?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U13	Thank you for your question. The question then was about savings loan cooperatives. Under the current law, they have a separate law, they operate independently, they are not subject to public or state supervision, they have their own internal organisational supervision facilities, if they use it. For savings loan cooperatives at all, perhaps a word in the background to what they do. They engage in fundraising and crediting from their members. It is basically mini-banks, very small banks. Their activities are ideally limited to their membership. The opinion of the Financial Supervision Authority developed on this issue when the regulation of savings and loan cooperatives with the draft was active. Previously it was, in 2016, or 2017. We have also discussed with the central bank among ourselves, we have such a good format as the joint seminar of the Supervisory Board of the Financial Supervision Authority and the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, and we have discussed different scenarios there, whether and how savings and loan cooperatives could be regulated and further monitored. But now back to the active draft that was the opinion of the Financial Supervision Authority. The position of the Financial Supervision Authority was quite simple. Savings and loan cooperatives, which exceed a certain size, can no longer operate as savings and loan cooperatives but should be credit institutions. Lower than that, smaller than that, the key is what this precise threshold is, which is the size and shape of the "door" and "housing" loan cooperatives continue to operate as they operate. Perhaps it would be wise to include in these laws certain control mechanisms or possibilities for internal inspections of their own organisations. This was our position at the time when this bill was actively in the process or on the table between ministries or within the ministry. And what's the problem over there? There are all kinds of savings loan cooperatives. In the Financial Supervision Authority, we believe that in the case of a classic savings loan association that operates either in a specific area or in some occupation, for example, a savings-credit association for lawyers or a railway savings-credit association, it does not have to be regulated in itself. However, it can be seen in Estonia that certain savings and loan cooperatives have long since lost such membership and, in essence, they act as banks, as credit institutions. In such a case, we do not see much justification as to why such savings and loan cooperatives should be somewhat more lenient and otherwise regulated than banks. Why are banks regulated in this way? That's to protect depositors so they don't lose their funds. The same rule of thumb could and should apply to savings and loan cooperatives.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U14	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Killer Kessler! There is a lot of information in your report, and there is also information on how many fines the Financial Supervision Authority made last year and filed criminal complaints. For example, financial penalties were imposed for shortcomings in the money laundering and terrorist financing system, etc. The total fines amounted to EUR 1.2 million. Please estimate how good and real change it is that maliciousness and unprofessionalism in financial matters do not harm those who, in good faith, trust their money to the new companies that share beautiful promises on the market. I'm not gonna name names, but they come all the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U16	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, for a good question. Let's get started on the positive side. I think that the Estonian legal framework regarding financial market activities is quite balanced in terms of what is the perimeter of authorisation at all, if one or the other is technically regulated, including the fact that in the Penal Code, for example, it is a criminal offence to act without authorisation in the financial sector. It gives people a fairly decent incentive or motivation to behave in a legitimate way. Such areas of the Penal Code are aviation, rail, health and the financial sector; they are such areas of higher risk within the meaning of the Penal Code. Now, one of these bottlenecks or improvements in Estonia, when I compare with others, we recently had a joint seminar with the Baltic supervisors, and it also hatched there, is the complexity of the procedure for imposing fines for those who operate in the financial sector with licenses. It is still insanely large in Estonia compared to even its colleagues in the Baltics. This is definitely one of the places that, I think, we all have to deal with in Estonia. Returning to your question, if I appreciate the ability of our colleagues in research institutions to deal with the respective suspicions of crime, whether such as fraud or other such practices as financial services, I welcome the capacity of the police and the investigative authorities over time. It has increased and we have developed it together. We have also assisted the police in carrying out various procedures with our know-how. In this sense, I think that the situation in Estonia to deal with such matters has improved considerably compared to ten years ago. There are signs of improvement, but I guess this ability will come about, and we're working on it. It is also a question of criminal law in general of what penalties we are going to get. As an example, Bernie Madoff, a famous villain in the United States, was sentenced to over a hundred years in prison. Nobody in America thinks a man lives in prison for over a hundred years. It's not like that. This is a society's assessment of the gravity of this act. It's still such an ugly thing to do, so if you lived that long, you'd be in a jailhouse for so long. But at the same time, I see this trend in Estonia, listening to and reading the Attorney General, that this so-called white-collar crime will be more focused and more appropriately addressed. I also find it abnormal that the so-called beer thief gets the law with all the rigour, but when the money gets very large, it's as if it doesn't realize that it's much worse than beer theft. Those people who steal a lot and society as a whole, I think, still have to get completely adequate feedback from society.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U17	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U18	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! What preventive steps have you taken to prevent international money laundering, while not being harassing and restricting business? Many e-residents still complain that it is difficult to open invoices in Estonian banks etc. What are your real capacity to actually audit what's going on in the banks? Physical gold bars can be counted in the basement of the bank, but one of the leading anonymous IT specialists at an Estonian bank says that in fact the zeros and the ones on these servers are not very good at auditing anyone. It all actually comes down on both sides, on the bank side and on the Financial Supervision Authority side, to how smart they are, on the one hand, to hide or not, but to keep this information to themselves, what they have and what daylight does not suffer. Please, how do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U19	Thank you for a very broad and very complicated question. I'm trying to control myself by looking at the clock, because this question can be answered for quite a while, but I'm trying to answer more compactly. The first thing is to start talking about the assumptions that financial supervision is dealing with. Once upon a time, I remember when the public came up with all the anti-money laundering issues, then from time to time there were opinions, like there were big displays in financial supervision, and then we saw everything, every single transaction, and we put it on, say it's bad, and it's good, etc. Financial supervision doesn't work like that. What we do in our area of competence or in our tasks is that we monitor, monitor, that professional financial intermediaries have built their organisations in such a way that people in these organisations do their job. For example, your example, this IT person, that this is the same IT person in the organization that takes care of it, for example, an IT person, actually has other titles for these people to distinguish the blades from the chuckles. It's not an easy job. I totally agree, we're going to go to mass data, all kinds of artificial intelligence solutions, etc. It's always in development. The information's getting bigger and bigger, the human work's already there, let's say, less important. But that's why I went back to the other side. In short, the role of financial supervision is to ensure that financial intermediaries' organisations are balanced, not that risk-taking is merely a precedent and that someone is a stranger and a bad financial supervisor who has to deal with risk control. No, you don't! Financial supervision shall ensure that the risk-taking side and the risk-control side of the organisation are balanced. Let's go. If financial supervision sees one or the other suspicious transaction again in its work, we do not see everything, that is not our role. Also, auditors, when they audit the annual accounts, do not review all economic transactions. They only take a certain number of these economic transactions and draw their conclusions from it. So do we. We're taking a certain sample, right, and that's intelligence again, that's intelligence, that's the kind of intel we need to draw up this sample. So on this sample, we're working. And if any suspicious transactions appear on the sample, we'll report it to the Money Laundering Data Bureau. The Money Laundering Data Bureau has been invited and set up in Estonia in principle to deal with suspicious transactions, to seize a bank account, for example, if they feel that it is a really suspicious transaction, to synthesize this information, it is called a strategic analysis. I know that my former colleague is now starting to build the functions of Strategic Analysis of the Money Laundering Data Bureau, so that everyone who needs it is the banks themselves, that is financial supervision, that are the security agencies, that can get some meaningful information from there. This is a function of the Money Laundering Data Bureau. Now, you had a question about customer convenience. The bankers and I have been working quite intensively for the last two years for what I call professional banking. I do not think that this is a professional banking, if the entire customer classes are to be ruled out automatically, for example, as automatism from some kind of service. It's not professional banking. There's such an expression in English as de-risking, getting rid of the risk. The guards don't like this mechanistic approach very much. Why don't you like it? Because if one risk is completely eliminated, the ability to deal with that risk will also disappear. The hand is not a so-called warm surgeon's saying. The hand must be warm. Bankers are the same, in principle they have to deal with risk management. Why is it bad when the hand isn't warm anymore? The bad guys aren't so stupid that they don't know how to take advantage of these new opportunities. It's just that the risk environment is changing. And then what's the chance? Eventually, the banks don't provide any services to anyone, do they? It's not a point. The function of banks in society is to move money in time and space. Their business interests are already like that. This so-called de-risking has been a clear item in our meetings with the Banking Union over the last two years. I know our banks have invested a lot to make their risk controls smarter. It doesn't happen overnight. In 2014 we came from a system where we have a share of non-residents at international level, the share of non-residents in the banking system was a very high risk marker. We pulled it down, but in the course of this, of course, when the forest is made, the deposit flies regrettably hit by some groups of customers who shouldn't have been hit. I think everyone has come to their own conclusions. I am absolutely convinced that risk controls will become more risk-sensitive and that a pensioner shopping in Selver and Maxima will no longer be bullied by the banks about why he bought this sausage there. Once again, I do not think it is professional banking. But going from one paradigm to another isn't a fingernail. There are these bottlenecks, and some of them you drew attention to. We're working on it, we're aware of this function. Let's keep going.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U20	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U21	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Head of the Good Financial Supervision Authority! I also have a question about money laundering. You described the present and a little bit of the future, I have a question about the past and your vision of how we, as a country and society, would get there so that the world would not understand that Estonia is the center of money laundering. When I look back at these cases, the Danske Bank has found that nothing terrible happened to Danske Bank in Denmark. Estonia has lost one very good bank manager permanently and the bank in the same way. The Swedes in Swedbank have found that, in principle, money laundering, I am speaking of course in black and white categories, was also more national-based than any other, i.e. Estonian banking people in both Sweden and Estonia were not fit to do business. Are we convinced that if you look at these cases, it will not be later revealed that all of this took place only in Estonia? What should we do as a state and society, so that this problem is not just Estonia's?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U22	Thank you! That's a good question again, thank you for that. Let's just say I'm hungry and anxious to answer it for a really long time, but we can also do it separately, in this full room, I'll try to control myself and keep these answers short. One thing is such a media background or even an Estonian media background. And sometimes I notice that we may feel a little too touched by these things. The last example was a German paying agency, Wirecard, where it turned out that quite a lot of money had been stolen and he became insolvent. Some money also moved through a Lithuanian paying agency. It is common in the European Union to make such cross-border notifications. If [Payment Institution] provides a service in Estonia, it simply announces that it can also occasionally provide a service in Estonia. And this Lithuanian paying agency had also made this cross-border notification in Estonia. However, a large title appeared in the paper that the paying agency related to Estonia was also involved in Wirecard's fraud. Wirecard himself had already made a notification in Estonia. Then I thought I could have said that the Estonian company Wirecard, right? Well, actually, it's German. In short, by putting this kind of media background aside, I will answer this question as I see it in my professional field or in my company. In 2014, we started doing this, dealing with money laundering risks, including communicating with the Danes. The Danes until some point in time were very confronted with Estonia, until at one point they came to the understanding that this was not reasonable. The understanding that this is not reasonable arose because the Danish press had realised by that time that Estonian financial supervision was considerably more open in communication with them than that of Denmark. And for the Danes, it just got awkward. Since then, we have a very constructive relationship with the Danes, including Danske. We also have a very constructive professional relationship with the Swedes. Speaking about Europe more broadly, I am not saying that it is now born every month, but from time to time, a large European bank with an international dimension will also receive a fine for breaching the anti-money laundering requirements or for breaching financial sanctions. And pretty much a fine. This has happened to Dutch banks, has happened to Belgian banks and has happened to French banks. In principle, every major country has a larger bank to do with it. Okay. Here's the background. What is the difference between Estonia now? Once again, I'm talking about my professional company or my view. Estonia's supervision has always been timely and proactive in sharing these risks. Versobank was in SSM, which I was telling you about here, it is the banking supervision of the euro area, the first precedent in which the European Central Bank took away the bank's authorisation because the bank's main business model was serving non-residents, let's say politely. It was a precedent in the ECB, it raised a lot of questions from colleagues. That was three or four years ago. Now, if you look at this debate, it seems like a completely different debate than it is now. To date, everyone in financial supervision has realised that prevention of money laundering is a very important business line or function in supervision that needs to be addressed. The United States, our partners, put one list or proposed to put ALV, a bank in Latvia, on the list of money-laundering banks, who then ran into one. But it was because they dragged their feet, they didn't just want to deal with ABLV in Latvia on the spot. No bank in Estonia has entered that list, and I think it will not. Now there is a slightly different risk environment. This is also the answer to the fact that, in fact, in such professional spheres, Estonian financial supervision... For example, we now have five international evaluations in 2021. The first feedback is that financial supervision has a very high capacity to deal with the prevention of money laundering. We've done here in Corona 2020 something we call a machine. This is the kind of, let's say, an IT solution that allows you to work quite a lot of information quite quickly to understand the risk environment that could occur in the money laundering field. It's 2 million info points as input, more than that. The output is a nice colored table for the human eye, who, what and where. So on this basis, we can allocate the human resource. This kind of machine is quite a novel approach. We have come here with partners from one very strong anti-money laundering country, the United States. They've looked at this machine and said they haven't seen such a thing, at least in the immediate vicinity. So once again: in praising myself, I could say that professionally we in Estonia have nothing to be ashamed of. These things unfortunately happen in the financial sector that criminals have been given the opportunity to whiten their incomes, or perhaps even in more difficult cases, the so-called pariah states, which have been subject to financial sanctions, have been able to deal with their own affairs. In foreign countries, as in Estonia, banks have generally received an adequate response to these actions. They're not dealt with. And adequate fine rates, well, that's the one thing in Estonia that's a little bit... Not a little bit, but let's be honest, even a million euros fine to get some sort of large-scale money laundering is a total cold. As a society, I think it makes sense for us to think this way: if someone has abused our general trust, then we must compensate ourselves for this damage as a society. And the damage we can compensate for with the instruments we have. Our instruments are the law. If we write in law that we have high fines in such cases, that is what we will get back to society as their fines, which these few careless banks or bankers or other financial intermediaries have caused. I say this: professional work and reporting on this work in professional circles is a good start on how to deal with it. That is what we have been dealing with, I say, from 2014 onwards in a consistent manner and will continue to deal with.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U23	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I'm interested in the future. Life is still going up and down, and you mentioned here that the COVID virus did not give the financial sector a major setback at the moment. But if you look to the future, couldn't these consequences be later, so that COVID's influence on the financial sector, how can we say that these consequences will come later? What should the financial sector pay attention to? Do you have any good advice or thoughts in your mind that you need to do so that there are no major falls?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U25	Thank you! It's like two things. One is the immediate impact of the wider financial sector, which is in the health risk environment of the new corona virus. It seems, by looking at this whole'science' victory over this virus, vaccination and its pace, you can say that this disease risk from the perspective of the future is decreasing rather. Indeed, you asked whether these risks were currently hidden. It's apparent. In general, and I think that President Müller, who besides me, is also talking about a bit more broadly about the economic picture in general. I am the narrow financial supervision, but it is a little more connected to the wider economic picture. Looking at the wider picture, certain sectors of the economy have been hit in the corona crisis, but certain other sectors are booming and they are doing quite well. Estonia is the same. For example, the IT sector is booming, wages are increasing, everything is top-down, while in some other areas, catering, entertainment is very poor. Now, quite selfishly responding to you, fortunately, the banks' loan portfolios do not have a very large share in entertainment and catering. These, it seems, are not very capital-intensive areas. In this sense, at least as far as the loan portfolios of the banks are concerned, at the moment we do not see such trends that we should be very concerned about the credit quality of the banks. However, yes, credit quality, it seems to us that based on the reports we have, makes a slight spike towards deterioration, but it's not something that you should be nervous about, let's say that. When we look at the overall picture of Estonia, thanks to SSM, the banking supervision system of the euro area, we have a fairly good picture of the euro area as a whole, the quality of the Estonian credit portfolio is quite high. Why am I talking about the quality of the credit portfolio? If there is low quality, credit losses, no money being taken from anywhere, banks are unable to raise money any more, poor depositors will get hit, and ultimately the whole country, or all taxpayers, will be involved in their rescue. That's why I'm talking about it and why you're probably asking about it. The answer is, yes, rather, in the case of credit quality today, there is no such feeling that it would deteriorate to such an extent that it would have to be seriously concerned and that I would somehow say here to you that the situation is now bad. I'd rather not. But the trend towards a little deterioration is.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U26	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U27	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, As early as 2019 in the ERR, you announced that we had three major problems facing society, and the first thing you mentioned was that we have low penalties in the financial sphere, which does not work well. You repeated that today, and you obviously have that conviction. As a good specialist, you know that in the US, for example, penalties in the financial sphere are considerably higher than ours and are very effective. Since we have a very strong keyword such as the issue of preventing money laundering, it has raised our Estonian state's attention in the world, you also know that our previous government took very concrete steps to obtain fines from the US for money laundering from this big pot to us in Estonia. The question now is how promising you, as a specialist, considered such a requirement to be.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U28	Thank you for your question. I just kept thinking, I think I've been asked that before. I mean, that perspective is basically impossible for me to judge. To this end, it is necessary to be aware of the facts collected or collected by the US state and federal authorities as evidence of certain subjects. That's the first half. And the other side, in order to give this probability assessment, is that you have to understand quite well what the federal and state law or the applicable law of the United States is. I'm in trouble that I don't know the facts they've collected, and I'm not saying that much less, but let's just say that in the details I don't know the federal U.S. law that regulates this topic, and the state law that is less. In this sense, it is very difficult to give probabilities as to whether this would have been possible or not. Well, the U.S. authorities are doing their job, and at some point when their factual basis matures, they're able to come up with something on their legal basis, so they'll let you know in public. But somehow I have to get into these slippers under full asymmetry, and even if there were symmetry, I have to apologize, I shouldn't tell you about it because it's usually confidential or legal. But you could say, in this case, luckily, I don't even know so much about it. This probability for you to predict is ungrateful work. All I'm saying is basically wrong, except to tell you the truth, I don't know.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U29	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U30	Good manager! Honourable waitress! Recently, Eesti Päevaleht released a memo from Danske Bank, which came from their Copenhagen headquarters. There was another leak of material, but unfortunately we're finding out something about leaked materials. There were extremely critical sentences, namely, the criminal investigation in Estonia was considered safe for the bank's head office in early 2019, and the criminal prosecution for breaches of anti-money laundering rules is not at risk, as such violations are not criminally punishable as of January 2015. At the same time, the United States of America was seen as a place of extreme risk at the other end of the threat scale. What we see in Estonia is that the United States was excluded from the investigation. The question is whether these measures have been sufficient to ensure that it does not look so bad as it appears in the memo. Perhaps you can comment on the U.S. shutdown?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U31	Thank you for your question. First thing about Danske, very briefly: in 2014 we visited the Danske branch a couple of times on the ground and achieved that by the end of 2015 they closed down this non-residents' business in Estonia. In essence, if you look at it commercially, that was the end of Danske's branch in Estonia. Their business just didn't pay off here without a non-resident component. Later, after Danske had carried out his internal investigation, it turned out that they had not massively reported suspicious transactions to the Money Laundering Data Bureau, or had massively misled the Estonian state institution. It was such a breaking point for us that we decided in the Financial Supervision Authority that we had to give a signal to society as well as to banking as a whole that this was not okay and we decided to send the branch back home from here in February 2019. That was what financial supervision did. Now, criminal investigation is a matter for the police and the prosecutor's office. I'm in no way capable, maybe I'm not in a position to evaluate a criminal investigation. I think the criminal investigation can be assessed by the prosecutor who implements and conducts it. Looking at the sidelines, not knowing all these fines, it's complicated. It is a purely fundamental decision for the United States or not for the United States. I'm not in a position to make decisions here either. This is, you can say, even a fundamental policy-making place to deal with these things. As far as financial supervision is concerned, if you are asking whether we have worked with the US institutions in the past, yes, we have worked together in the past. Are we working with the US authorities now? Yeah, we're working with the U.S. authorities right now. How's the future? I hope that this will be the case, because international cooperation agreements have also been concluded between financial supervisors. It is usually quite technical and good cooperation. There's never been any trouble with the United States. Troubles have occasionally occurred with different countries, but with few. In general, this cooperation on financial supervision for financial stability, for the sake of market honesty, has been good all along.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U32	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U33	Good manager! Dear waitress, thank you for your presentation and even better answers to all these questions. I am not asking about any particular problem, rather I would like to know if you can see that digital solutions also make it possible for people to manage their money better and recognise it as their own [putting it]. After all, in the cooperative days, people themselves borrowed their money and agreed to whom, how, and what goals. Well, when a cooperative becomes a credit institution, it increases, we've seen, also the risk of fraud. In order to reduce the risk of fraud and money laundering, banks now need to know their clients. At the same time, in the case of crypto assets, these bitcoin fragments move very safely from one virtual wallet to one place and another, but who moves it, we do not know. The machine has given you new opportunities in monitoring, but is there any way to better introduce and identify these people in the virtual world?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U34	Thank you for your question. I need to be more specific. Did you now ask about the proportion of financial education, literacy, IT? [[A voice from the hall.]] Okay, here's what I'm gonna say. [[A voice from the hall.]] Thank you! In general, from my perspective, the less people understand how their money moves from one place to another, the better. This shows that the system works, they do not need to know it, they have to deal with it and we have to take care of it. If people don't know there's a Financial Inspectorate, then everything's fine, let's just say that. That is quite seriously said, we have no ambition to be and show ourselves all the time, it is unnecessary. If no one knows anything about us, it's fine. Let's just say when they start talking about financial matters, there's a problem. Well, money laundering, let's take the example of everyone talking, everybody knows. In fact, this prevention of money laundering is a very small part of our entire portfolio. Digi is taking more and more, or more and more, the financial sector is very highly digitised and will increasingly be like this. Now, look to the future, we have two kinds of people in the organization: financialists and lawyers, right? In the future, I see, there's a third one in at least the same number of equal proportions [group of people], let's say, in a broad sense, information ehnologists, because the ability to see it in 'algorithms' must also exist. At present, financial supervisors resolve this by, for example, having an algorithm, saying that take the assessment of a third party, a competent person, an auditor that this algorithm works, that there will be no errors. And then the financial supervisor will see that okay, this third party has made estimates, and he trusts it. I think there will be some risks from there, just as these risks have arisen with financial auditors at one point. Perhaps you remember the Enron scandal where the auditors had behaved like ugly, to say the least. Perhaps this digitalisation is a clear trend in the future; the content of financial oversight organisations will change as a result. I think the consumer may be so, let's say the less he understands it, the better. He doesn't have to understand. How can this education be created? I have been giving lectures at the University of Tartu for 21 years at the Faculty of Law to lawyers: financial markets and financial supervision. I once had the hope that I'd go to these lectures and then things would get better, right, but from time to time, I'd see that it's like [can't]. But it is such an eternal job. I like to lecture there and discuss things with people. Second observation. When I was in the U.S. for the first time in 1996, I immediately noticed that young fellow students, Americans, each night watched the stock market with great enthusiasm for what happened there. I asked one of you why you're looking at it or why it's important. He said, look, we've been given some small money by our parents, we have stock portfolios, of course, it's exciting to see if we've gained or lost anything. A culture like this puts some money aside either on the stock market or on a fund, isn't that something that is also emerging in Estonia? Nor can it occur overnight. I think there is room for improvement in Estonia's average household, let's say, in terms of financial capacity. People need to get their education, get their lives fixed, and if they do, I guess they'll be put aside, and that's how this education will come about through practical activities like this. I, myself, am not that much of a belief that the state is somehow mechanicalally educating people. In our school, yes, children can always do even more, and I think there are also developmental places for textbooks. We also have a colleague in the house with a daughter studying economics, and there are certainly places in the textbook to correct. But I think practical life is actually quite a good trainer for people in terms of investment. It's got its own kinks. I have a very close person, a very smart person who bought cryptoware at one point. Then this crypto value began to rise awfully, and he said he was rich now. I said, no, hey, they're just electrical pulses, where you suddenly got that mess. Think maybe you can sell it. No, I'm not selling it. And then the price fell again, and then he was unhappy. In other words, where money still exists, people sometimes have common sense and cold heads do not always survive, it is in human nature. But I think it's starting point [is pretty good]. Studies also show that when children come from school, they have a pretty good base, looking at the reference moments. This does not mean that it is in any way [can't be improved]. I guess it was "Summer," that there was a theory, and then they got the Quick to pull those stones, and it was practice, right? I think it is the same in the financial sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U35	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U36	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I have a question on the subject that you dealt with a little bit, which Mr Riina here, on the tip, has dealt with a little bit, namely alternative payment instruments, crypto currencies in all kinds of variations, as well as all the other related keywords, such as the dark web, etc. You said that you have taken some action on this issue, and the public sector should also keep it in focus. I am now asking exactly what future developments your house sees in this and, above all, what the legislator should have in mind about this crypto currency.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U37	Thank you! A very broad question, I will try to answer in a structured way. I think that, if you look at this trend in cryptoware, there are different reasons why we believe that it has become more popular in recent years, especially as an investee. At first it was thought that he might also become popular as a means of payment. In less developed areas, I don't know, in Africa, in certain regions of Asia, perhaps more has been used as a means of payment. In Europe, however, it is a little too energy-intensive to use it as a means of payment, and perhaps also slower than the systems created in Europe as payment systems. Now, on a broader scale, this cryptoware [is associated with risks], you yourself slipped through this black Web or dark Web. The first place where problems or risks began to be seen internationally by the FATF is one of the international standardmakers, created by the United States and the Federal Republic of Germany, there are basically major countries all over the world together, they agree on what could be some standards in the field of prevention of money laundering, that is the same FATF a few years ago came up with standards for managing risks or money laundering risks in relation to crypto assets. It was first perceived that this risk of bad things being made in relation to crypto assets was greater, as it is also a possible payment instrument. So this is the first step that countries have taken. Every once in a while, the news tells me that someone's forbidding it. It has not been done in Europe, I think China has banned it in the meantime, then did not ban it again, then banned it, and I also do not understand what is or is happening. But now the next step is that if the use of cryptoware gets wider, what is it really? If you look closer, there's nothing too special about it. He is very similar to the provision of a payment service and he is very similar to the one we call the investment service to the management of the securities portfolio. Just this value carrier is like this, is this bitcoin or some other coin, this new digital solution, or I don't know what new he is anymore. The content is still about moving an old good value in space or time, nothing else. The more people start using this novel thing, the more they feel in society that the risks associated with those who somehow mediate bitcoins, as if they could be more important to society, we want to regulate. The European Union will move on the same road quietly. There is one memory-based draft EU regulation that says that we would like to regulate these crypto agents in the same way, for example, as is currently the case with stockbrokers or investment firms. But it's just in the design form. I guess gradually that's where the whole thing's going to be done, let's say politely, safer for the common consumer. If we look at Estonia's perspective, what do we see? Our crypto doesn't work directly, it's in the Money Laundering Data Bureau perimeter right now. But few of these complaints are the same example that I was talking about my personal experience here, nor are there too many complaints that it is a scary volatile instrument and I, as an investor, cannot bear this risk. These complaints are not, rather, in that direction, but there are complaints that whether anyone has been deceived has disappeared some of the passwords of this crypto wallet, that what to do now, or in worse cases, cryptoware is used by such, say, dark forces to transfer values from one place to another, but also as an investment object. The future is, I think, gradually such regulation. It always goes with these things.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U38	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! First of all, I ask for your understanding of the kind of assessment I'd like to make. It's not specific to your field, it's quite common. When Heads of Sectoral Institutions talk about results, they focus on the process, the description of the process, which does not actually give an adequate picture. It would be much more helpful to talk about the overall picture and how much percentage we have here. We are not competent to assess whether these and these steps were sufficient or should have been less or more. But it's not just you. But is it not the case that tough and complex financial rules do not encourage the informal economy, the shadow financial system?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U40	Yeah, thanks! The observation is well received, welcome. The echo is also immediately opposed to the observation that our metric is financial stability. The measure is that when a financial intermediary becomes insolvent, as if someone has failed to do something. In Estonia, financial intermediaries have not become insolvent. One output-based meter is like this. But now this regulation and the shadow economy is a very correct question. How Can I Answer? Of course it is, as you say, that everything has some balance where you have a certain, say, transaction costs due to the intensity of regulation are going to be so high that people no longer consume these highly regulated products and services and go somewhere around the corner. No one really wants financial supervision. I used to use the word 'balance', I do not think that in the social field this law of physics on balance would be in any way valid. But I fully agree that it is always easy to introduce regulations and sometimes these results... Sometimes it's like a game, like those tantrums over there, kicking one head in one place, but he comes out of another place and maybe in a much worse form. I fully agree that, in terms of financial supervision, our task is to monitor. Since we're in the field, we understand what's going on there, what's going on there, we've been positioning ourselves in that sense as an advisor to the ministries to keep it that way, that it doesn't go too far. Sometimes it's very easy to write all kinds of things. I'm an education lawyer myself, and one side of me realizes that writing is a really fun thing to do, but the other side says that society is still a little more complicated and broader than just writing. Thank you for these observations.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U41	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U42	Thanks! Dear waitress, Yeah, a lot of free money is looking for an app. It's like cheating is more and more of a day-to-day press thing. There are areas that are under your control, and there are areas that are not under your control. In autumn, the second pillar will also bring a lot of money to the market. I'm gonna ask you about a subject called the Financial Ombudsman. It seems to me that this is an increasingly topical issue and the financial Ombudsman should be reached in Estonia. How far is this process? What's the schedule? How is the budget planned and what is its status?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U43	Thanks! Martin Luther King said he had a dream. I have the same dream of this same financial ombudsman. But I just have a dream. What is my dream, in the end, may not be at all what, as a law, if at all, becomes flesh. The topic of the financial ombudsman is by the ministries... What do you call it? The intention to develop is the name of this thing, okay? There is an intention to develop, there have been different plans to develop. The Financial Supervision Authority has given its opinion on how it sees this financial ombudsman, has argued why it is needed, has argued why it should be present at the Financial Supervision Authority. And now this has been followed by the process in which the ministries, together with us, are discussing whether our arguments are good or not, and what could be the bill? If the bill also finds political recognition in the government, it is likely to arrive at one point in Parliament and [then] depends on Parliament's grace, whatever Parliament decides. This is the progress of the process. So we're kind of, well, I'm not saying at first, but in the active phase. I understand that my colleagues at the Ministry of Finance are quite optimistic about the pace that this thing is going to get in the form of a law. Our signal is that we need this fortress or a sign when this is the moment that we can pretty much make sure it becomes the law. 'Cause it's not a fingernail, either. You still need an organization, people, and this mechanism needs to run first. It's not like we're gonna come together and do it. It's a little more complicated. Certain assumptions exist in the Financial Supervision Authority. We have an IT base. We also have a certain know-how base for this. So that is why we have also been in dialogue with the country, and we are ready to take this Ombudsman with us. In some ways, it has also been surprising in some parts of the country that one state institution says that it wants to deal with just give us! This is the progress of the process. I have said this before so that I wouldn't be too optimistic about this autumn, but I am very optimistic that he has to come. I have a dream he'll come.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U44	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U45	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! My question is, what happened to opening our securities accounts? When they were no longer open to foreign residents, we needed to change the functioning of the notary system and now to bring it under the lawyers who are going to formalise these financial transactions. The guts said there was a functioning system, but the reason was still that banks refused to open securities accounts for foreign residents.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U46	Thanks! I think your question concerns the fact that at one point there was a requirement that the Estonian securities account must be linked to the Estonian bank account. It was that the banks tightened their fish nets' eyes a little. The question then arose that since it was no longer so easy to open securities accounts, among other things, the idea was to separate it. In this respect, the securities account does not necessarily require the existence of a bank account in an Estonian credit institution, the Financial Supervision Authority said yes, we do not object to this at all. As far as notaries and lawyers are concerned, I have to apologize for not knowing exactly about this. But the fact that the securities account and the bank account are separated away from each other is why not. It may also be good for competition. Why do you have to choose an Estonian bank if, for example, there is an opportunity to open an account in a Finnish, Swedish, Norwegian or whatever bank.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U47	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U48	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You mentioned relatively good cooperation with the Americans here. Now Estonia has sent Indrek Tibari to America for a justice Attaché, whose creative portfolio includes five years of work in Swedbank during a period that the FBI is currently studying. Do you think that sending such a person as a "money laundering contact" is reliable in the FBI's eyes and how would this affect our cooperation with the Americans in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U49	Thank you. I know that if this creation of a Justice Attaché was at an idea level, the Financial Supervision Authority was consulted on whether we need a Justice Attaché, I don't even know what the title is, you say justice, okay, a Justice Attaché. Our answer was that we do not need to, we do not have so much work with federal and state financial supervision in the United States that we need someone permanently on the ground. If we have to, we'll drive there if we have to, they'll be here. This thing has gone so far, it doesn't necessarily have to be in Washington, it just doesn't have to be that much mass. Well, we don't have to lobby there with supervisors. The guardians are still all relatively similar types over the world. Yeah, getting along is good in general. I, for example, have graduated from Georgetown University and not half, but, let's say, a third of the U.S. Federal Securities Authority staff have graduated from Georgetown. It works like they know that okay, this guy's from the same university. In this sense, I also owe the answer that it is rather a question for the justice system and the investigative authorities and it is for them to assess whether there is so much of this work and what kind of work it is. In this sense, we get our financial supervision things done well, we get it, we get it, we get it, we get it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U50	There are no more questions. Thanks to the waitress! It is now possible to go to negotiations. Representatives of the political groups can take the floor during the negotiations. First of all, Erki Savisaar has signed up for the middle fraction. Three minutes extra time, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the European Union. In view of Estonia's economic environment, the openness of the economic environment and the business environment, the globalization of the financial sector and the technical development of financial services, and the resulting opportunities, such development, on the other hand, entails risks. Risks where money from a criminal background seeks ways to clean up the Estonian financial system. Prevention of money laundering requires due diligence from financial intermediaries and knowledge of their clients. Not only is the credibility of one institution at stake, but the credibility and integrity of the whole financial system. It takes decades to create a painting, but only a few minutes to destroy it. What happened in 2011-2014 when billions of dollars were washed through Estonian banks still has an impact on the credibility of our financial sector. The damage caused by reputation is incomprehensible in the Estonian sense. The Centre Party Group considers that more attention needs to be paid to the prevention of money laundering than before and that the Financial Supervision Authority needs to be provided with the necessary resources. Estonia's international reputation is at stake. Control must be effective but unnoticed by honest customers, consumers, investors and institutions. A comparison could be made here by road surveillance. There was a time when the vehicle had to be detained for monitoring purposes, the driver asked for documents, validated visually and using primitive means of communication, and assessed whether, who and what had been violated and what sanctions to take. Today, traffic surveillance works in a very different way. IT tools, smartness and experience are used, leverage measures are applied either completely automatically, unnoticed or, if necessary, only to stop offenders, allowing proper road users to move smoothly. In the financial sector, I must say, this control is still very primitive and paranoid today. Unreasonably, both private and corporate accounts are closed, accounts are refused, transactions restricted, etc. This has to change. It must become that honest market participants will not even know who is monitoring and how, and the offenders will be hit by it in all its difficulty. We fully support one of the priorities of the Financial Supervision Authority this year, which is the assessment of Estonia's ability to combat money laundering by independent external evaluators. It is also sympathetic that we are increasingly moving towards a smart model of supervision based on IT solutions. This wit could move not only to the supervisory authorities but also to banks, financial services providers. In autumn, the Financial Supervision Authority adopted a new solution to identify money laundering risks, which calculates and visualizes the risks from different sources through numerous algorithms and the vulnerability of banks' deposits and payment channels. But there is still much room for improvement. I hope that the finance ministers, both today and the future, will also draw conclusions from the failures of their predecessors and keep their hands on the subject of money laundering at heart. I fully agree with the statement made by Andre Nõmme, member of the board of the Financial Supervision Authority, that in order to keep the bank out of money laundering and at the same time to ensure a smooth and inclusive banking system, there is no alternative but to invest more in smart risk controls. I wish the Financial Supervision Authority every success in maintaining the credibility and integrity of this complex sector, but also in providing open minds and innovative advice to companies wishing to provide even better services. Blocking the establishment of a cooperative bank in its time was certainly a big mistake and a decision that suppresses the Estonian economy. Estonia needs more financial services based on Estonian capital. We hope that in the future, a larger picture will be analysed and ideas will also be offered in substance, not only in form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U52	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U53	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. There is no doubt that the role and importance of the Financial Supervision Authority in society will increase. I'm looking at some memories from 12 years ago, when I was on the Financial Supervision Board myself, the number of employees was between 70 and 80, today they've reached 110. This, too, shows that the challenges continue to be met. I guess we're living in a difficult time. As I said here before on the question, it seems somehow that this kind of scam or scam that has always been in the world is a daily topic in Estonia today and at very different levels. One level really is the Financial Supervision Authority to control, and there is another level that the police or investigative authorities control. I'd like to bring three things out here where we ourselves can come to the Financial Supervision Authority. The same topic for savings and loan cooperatives. I share this view that there is supposed to be an approach with savings and loan cooperatives under control and very clearly within the group, which is very welcome. On the other hand, why we are creating a situation where savings and loan cooperatives, which have grown well, must be subject to supervision under the same conditions as banks. I don't think there's a question here. I remember from my history that when I was Minister of Agriculture 22 years ago, there were 13 savings loan cooperatives in Estonia, which were generally village- or community-centred. Kippus be so that the farm, the former head accountant of the collective farm-sovkhoz, was in charge and was under control. I believe that these 13 still operate in this very community and are for business. So the issue of savings and loan cooperatives is certainly something that I do not know by heart now whether it is a matter of amending the law, but if it is a question of amending the law, it is a question of this hall. Second thing: fines. I understand that seven years have tried to deal with the subject of fines and so far no progress has been made. I'm sure the question in our hall is where it is. The very clear question to the Minister for Justice is that there is a problem. The third thing I would like to bring out here, which will come to us, and where our contribution is undisputed, is the financial ombudsman. As well and nicely as it sounds, we give money freedom, and then people make their own decisions, and I'm sure there's truth here somewhere, but there's going to be a glitch. These glitches may come and they will grow, I think, in the autumn even more. In the interests of society's stability, it is undeniable that people who find themselves in difficulty in allocating their money have a place to turn to. Otherwise, they'll be protestors on the street soon. The relatively rapid progress with the financial ombudsman issue is, in my view, inevitable. Here, too, there is this question, and certainly my next question to both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, how far it is and how it is planned to be implemented. I think it is urgent and it needs to be taken forward reasonably. So good luck to the Financial Supervision Authority, you won't get bored! Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U54	Thank you. There's no more words. I will close the negotiations on this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U55	We can go to today's second item, the Eesti Pank Annual Report 2020. The rapporteur is Madis Müller, Governor of Eesti Pank. The item will be dealt with in the same way as the previous item. First there is a 20-minute presentation and then each member of the Riigikogu can ask an oral question, followed by negotiations. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U56	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am again in front of you with a report on the activities of Eesti Pank and, briefly, I intend to talk about what we see in Eesti Pank as important in the economy and financial sector of Estonia and the euro area. First of all, a look back on the past year, which was an unusual year of crisis. The causes, scale and means of dealing with the crisis were unusual. The main keywords for Eesti Pank last year were the support of the central bank to the economy, forecasting the economic effects of the crisis and advising policy makers, as well as ensuring the smooth functioning of vital services, payments and cash circulation under the responsibility of Eesti Pank. First of all, I will talk about monetary policy, which Eesti Pank will participate in with the central banks of other euro area countries. Last year, this meant a rapid response to the crisis. It was important to prevent uncertainty in the markets from escalating into a financial crisis with devastating consequences. Above all, in times of crisis, it was important for us to keep the price of credit favourable, so as not to put any additional weight on companies and households or governments. To this end, in the Governing Council of the European Central Bank, we decided to increase bond purchases by the central bank, in an even more flexible manner than usual in times of crisis and in response to developments in the financial markets and the economy. Such asset purchases have proved to be a very effective tool in controlling interest rates. In addition, we offered very low interest rate loans to commercial banks on condition that they would continue to lend this money to businesses and thus support economic recovery. All these steps have been necessary to provide support to the euro area economy until we overcome the virus crisis through vaccination and the restrictions end. Estonia has also benefited very clearly from all of this. Firstly, because our economies are very closely linked to the welfare of other European countries. Secondly, favourable interest rates have helped both Estonian entrepreneurs and families who have taken out loans. The government also benefited from low interest rates by borrowing long-term money on the bond markets after a long break last year on very favourable terms. The role of the central bank has also increased in the Estonian banking landscape. While the government issued bonds that fit into the central bank's bond purchase programmes, banks have started to borrow money, inter alia, on the collateral of covered bonds. These are bonds on mortgage portfolio collateral that are also suitable for our asset purchase programmes and collateral if the commercial bank wants to borrow from the central bank. For our part, we expanded the range of eligible collateral in Eesti Pank, now accepting bank loan portfolios as collateral for loans from the central bank. In summary, the interest of Estonian commercial banks in central bank operations and liquidity has increased considerably. The volume of monetary policy assets, including both purchased bonds and loans to banks, increased by 4 billion euros in the balance sheet of Eesti Pank last year. Among other things, Eesti Pank has also purchased bonds from the Estonian Government. The bonds of Estonian companies, such as Elering and Eesti Energia, have been purchased by the Finnish central bank based on the division of labour agreed between central banks. As the crisis broke out, we eased the buffer requirements imposed by the central bank on Estonian commercial banks so that they would not reduce lending to Estonian companies and households in fear of possible loan losses. Now a little bit of the central bank's own household. In Eesti Pank, we too were faced with the question of how to keep the organisation operational in the pandemic crisis and ensure the continuity of vital services under the bank's responsibility. We adjusted our IT and security systems and put a large part of the bank's employees into home offices. However, we also have job cuts, such as cash management, which cannot be done in any way from the home office. To keep them running, we changed our work patterns and worked in isolated teams to avoid the risk of infection. Together with the commercial banks, we conducted exercises to monitor and strengthen cooperation to ensure the security of cash circulation in emergency situations. We have also recently reviewed the so-called emergency plans for payments and cash circulation. And it is very important for me to know that Eesti Pank is also able to carry out its main tasks in various crisis situations. Cash circulation did not suffer in the crisis, and we managed to cope with the temporary increase in cash demand last spring. Generally speaking, the availability of cash is good in Estonia, as it is possible to withdraw money from the cashiers of shops and gas stations in addition to ATMs. Here I would remind the Riigikogu, as legislator, of the proposal that was discussed in the spring at the meeting of Eesti Pank and the political groups. This concerns the reduction of the use of single and double coins and the introduction of so-called rounding rules. I have also explained to the members of the government that it would benefit both businesses and consumers, not to mention the positive impact on the environment. I hope that you will soon be able to address the legislative amendment needed to establish the rounding rules in this Chamber as well. There were no significant obstacles to the operation of interbank payments last year. As an important issue from the perspective of vital payment services, we have assessed the functioning of the card payment system, as banks have partly moved the payment processing service out of Estonia and so the risks have increased. We want to make sure that card payments work, for example, in a situation where the external connection to data communication has been interrupted for some reason. Other major developments in the payment environment are linked to increasing digitisation and faster payments. Of all the electronic payments made between banks in Estonia, 90% of the payments made last year were immediate or so-called instant payments. A new issue has added to the possible emergence of the digital euro for us. This summer, we will decide in the Governing Council of the European Central Bank whether we will launch the next phase of the preparatory project for the adoption of the digital euro. Eesti Pank has played an active role here in testing possible technological solutions for the central bank's digital money. We are working on a research project in cooperation with the company Guardtime to find out whether Estonian e-state based technology could also be used as part of the central bank's digital euro infrastructure. The digital euro would combine the convenience and efficiency of digital payments with the security of central bank money. I would also mention briefly that during the crisis, we noticed an increasing interest in statistics compiled by Eesti Pank. For our part, we tried to find new ways of obtaining information that would allow the economic situation to be assessed promptly in the crisis. In addition, together with the Money Laundering Data Bureau and the Financial Supervision Authority, we improved data exchange in order to collect the necessary indicators to prevent money laundering. One of the main tasks of Eesti Pank is to assess the economic situation and advise policy makers. When the crisis broke out, we had few points of reference to do this, and no one was able to predict exactly the extent of the spread of the corona virus. That explains the very large scissors in the original scenarios. Last March, we predicted that the fall in Estonia's GDP could reach 6 to 14%, but this was not the case fortunately. When advising the government, Eesti Pank's main advice to alleviate the crisis was that state aid should be targeted, rapid and temporary and targeted specifically at those who suffered the most from the crisis. In the near future, we plan to play a part in the role of economic policy advisor, thinking about how the Estonian economy will recover stronger after the crisis. Last year, we supported Estonia's financial position with an extraordinary share of Eesti Pank's profits. Instead of the usual quarter, we allocated three quarters of the undistributed profit in 2019 to the state budget, or a total of EUR 19 million. For the first time during Estonia's membership, we, together with other countries, agreed to support the lending capacity of the International Monetary Fund, the IMF, if necessary, as the demand for IMF aid loans increased sharply during the crisis. Eesti Pank represents Estonia in the IMF according to the law. This credit line of EUR 160 million is only a back-up solution for the IMF and will remain in force for three or four years. As a new area of rapid development, the effects of climate warming and the resulting risks have arisen for central banks. Here too, there were important developments for Eesti Pank last year. We became a member of the so-called Green Network of Central Banks and Financial Supervisors, where we assess the relationship between climate and environmental risks and macroeconomic and financial stability. The impact of climate action on the Estonian economy is very direct, most definitely on the oil shale industry. Last year we assessed climate risks in the Estonian banking sector for the first time and we plan to start taking these risks into account in Eesti Pank's own portfolio investments and also manage our quarter as energy-efficiently as possible. For the latter we have made a cooperation agreement with Tallinn University of Technology. Next, I will focus on the situation in the economy and more important issues in both the euro area and the Estonian economy. The virus crisis was common to all, but its effects in the euro area countries were really very different. Not all sectors suffered, and the impact of the crisis also depended on the structure of the economy. Overall, the euro area's gross domestic product declined by 6.6% last year and inflation slowed to 0.2%. At the same time, we saw that the economy can recover quickly as the restrictions ease. This is what we are looking forward to in the euro area in the second half of this year. According to the Spring Economic Forecast of the European Central Bank, we are expecting a 4% increase in the euro area this year, which will not bring us back to pre-crisis levels, but the prospects are certainly more optimistic today. We are increasingly hearing the question of whether massive support measures can overheat the economy and trigger high inflation. From the central bank's point of view, we appreciate the current signs of inflation picking up rather as a result of temporary factors caused by disruptions in supply chains or, for example, in oil prices, by very low reference bases last year, the effects of which will come to an end in time. Inflation will certainly pick up temporarily, but we expect that it will not reach the 2% target in the euro area on a sustainable basis in the near future. I now come from here to the Estonian economy, which went much better than it feared last year, better than the European countries on average. In total, Estonia's GDP decreased by only 3%, largely thanks to the better-than-expected performance of our trading partners in the crisis. At the same time, the impact of the crisis in Estonia was very uneven. Some sectors are still struggling, but the turnover of information and communication companies, for example, is already above pre-crisis levels. Our exports also survived very well in the crisis. The market share of Estonian exports in foreign markets increased last year, which is a positive sign of the competitiveness of our companies. Looking ahead, we expect economic growth to pick up in the second half of the year, when restrictions will no longer hinder economic activity. People have also accumulated significant savings that promise to strengthen demand and consumption. In autumn, the money to be taken out of the second pillar pension funds will also reach the accounts. More than in the past, we can use European Union funds. All of this is added to the economy as a stimulus in a situation where the economy has already started to recover. In March, we forecast growth of 2.7% for the Estonian economy this year. Data from the beginning of this week for the first quarter show that economic growth is fast and mainly due to the improved economic situation, not just the low reference base of last year. According to more recent data, the volume of the Estonian economy has already exceeded the pre-crisis level, i.e. the fourth quarter of 2019 as well as the forecast level before the crisis. The new forecast of Eesti Pank will be published this month and it will probably be more optimistic. In the Estonian labour market, there was a greater adjustment last spring, mainly through a fall in employment, not a fall in wages. The wage compensation offered by the State helped to cushion the impact. We predict that the impact of this year's additional restrictions on the labour market will be rather modest, as businesses have adapted, vaccination is progressing and uncertainty is already being reduced. In many areas, such as construction, companies are already actively looking for new workers. In spite of the crisis, wage growth continued in Estonia last year, which slowed down, but remained at 5% in the second half of the year compared to the year. Now that the crisis phase of the economy is getting behind us, it is increasingly necessary to ensure that the grant money, including the European Union's resources, is directed to where it would help secure the foundation for the new growth of the Estonian economy, so that investments go into productivity and research development, and labour market measures support the acquisition of new skills. I am of the opinion that it is generally worth supporting policy-making with the highest possible scientific and long-standing perspective and also finding the resources to finance the entities supporting it. Inflation in Estonia is picking up after last year's fall in consumer prices. However, we can see that the price increase will be relatively moderate and will slow again after the recovery. In short, also about the financial sector, which the Chairman of the Board of the Financial Supervision Authority has already talked about, but I will add some comments from my own perspective. We also saw that the risks feared in the financial sector last spring did not materialise to an extent. The quality of the banks' loan portfolio has remained good thanks to the buffers collected in pre-crisis times, the payment holidays offered by the banks at the height of the crisis, as well as public subsidies. Financial services remained available and companies and households have managed well to meet their loan obligations. Banks are heavily capitalised and profitable enough to continue financing the Estonian economy even in negative scenarios. There is no problem that good projects will not receive funding. The activities of banks are also supported by a significant increase in deposits. Household savings have increased by 15% over the year and corporate deposits by 24% even faster. I would also note that we believe that competition in the banking market has increased somewhat, making the price of credit even more favourable. When we talk about potential risks in the financial sector, we cannot overlook companies that are not properly regulated and not supervised by the state, in particular providers of virtual currency, which were already discussed during the previous presentation, but also savings and loan cooperatives, for example. I hope that there will soon be clearer frameworks for action in both areas of legislation on your desk. We closely monitor developments in the real estate market from Eesti Pank. The activity of transactions has increased considerably, especially in the mortgage market. The purchase interest is supported by a number of factors, including wage growth, accumulated savings and money taken out of the second pension pillar. We see at times the risk that such a situation could accelerate the rise in the price of real estate and lead to an excessive increase in people's debt. According to the law, Eesti Pank must be prepared to tighten the requirements for issuing housing loans so that there are no bubbles in the loan and real estate market, the painful consequences of which we still remember freshly from the previous crisis. In particular, we have drawn attention to loans granted at KredEx guarantee, which allow the share of the mortgage loan to be reduced. In our opinion, a situation where a deposit is less than 15% of the value of the property purchased should be taken as a clear exception. However, the target group for such derogations could be rather narrowly defined. Today we see that the volume of loans with low self-financing support from KredEx has increased very rapidly over the years. It is therefore worth reviewing whether the advantage is targeted specifically at those most in need of support. We have also shared our thoughts with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and are drawing similar conclusions, I believe. It is certainly worth supporting young families in acquiring their first home. Loans for home purchases in rural areas may also need bail-outs. But it is primarily a question of updating the guarantee criteria. Finally, I would also like to talk about the general situation of Estonian public finances. In times of crisis, it has certainly been very important for the state to support businesses and people who would otherwise have lost their income. In this situation, it is justified for the government to borrow to support the economy. However, the Estonian economy is already recovering this year, so it is time to start thinking about how to bring public spending back into line with revenue. It is also worth ensuring, of course, that we do not increase the country's fixed costs by using European Union subsidies, because these subsidies are temporary in terms of revenue. We are concerned about the state's fiscal strategy in its current form, as public finances do not seem to be on a sustainable path. The big gap between revenue and expenditure remains after the economy has already overcome the crisis. For example, in 2023, the planned budget strategy continues to have a deficit of more than EUR 1 billion. Perhaps the Estonian state plans to borrow more than 3% of GDP even at a time when the economy is already back on the pre-crisis growth path. The country's debt burden will increase very sharply in the short term and only part of it will be linked to the cost of the crisis. Even in 2025, the strategy does not envisage achieving a budgetary balance. Compared to other European countries, we were able to escape from the corona crisis with less damage. However, we plan to bring public finances back to a more sustainable path at a slower pace than many other countries. The fact that we can support our country without constantly increasing our debts when the economy recovers could be the goal of other choices in Estonia's public finances. We acknowledge that this is a political choice, which level of expenditure and the resulting tax burden Estonian society is prepared to accept. You can't live long, but you can't. And the current crisis will certainly not be the last. We need buffers again in the next crisis, which is why I would end here with the popular wisdom of Estonia "Rege Rauta in the summer, cart in winter." Thank you for listening. I'm ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U57	Thank you very much. There are questions. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U58	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of Eesti Pank, thank you very much for this comprehensive review. But I also have a question, and the question is about the effects of inflation on the national bond market, not on people's wallets, but on inflation. I read from your report that, as inflation approaches 2%, it is close enough and that the decrease is reflected in the further development of inflation, then first the asset purchase programmes will be closed. Before that, interest rates will be raised and then the asset purchase programmes will be terminated. But my question is, how does this affect the country's bond market? If interest on the bond market starts to grow, what can they grow to? Somewhere, the tolerance limits of countries with high levels of debt come up. What do you do if inflation is over 2% stable and it is no longer possible to restart the asset purchase programme and lower interest rates? So what's going to happen on the bond market?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U59	Thank you very much for the very good question concerning the monetary policy of the European Central Bank, I would say, basic policy and fundamental choices. It is clear that the central bank's main objective is formulated through price stability and thus the preservation of our currency, the purchasing power of the euro. It is really worded in such a way that close to 2%, below that is the level that we aim at as central bankers. Since we are quite far from it today in the euro area, inflation has been very low for a long time, it is justified by all quite strong, I would say, support measures from the ultimate interest rates to the purchase of bonds. However, if the economy recovers in the euro area, with which, logically, the acceleration of the price increase could eventually go hand in hand, then it is clear that as a central bank, we must react, and if the price increase has already reached high enough, we will also be ready to turn back our policies, to stop these property purchases, as well as to raise interest rates. The question of how governments, who have all really increased their debt burden over the past year, can cope with this situation, and many have had a greater debt burden already before, and this must be, above all, a question for governments and not for the central bank. I think it is important that the costs incurred during the crisis, as well as the investments made, among other things, from the European Union's recovery fund, are well targeted and sufficiently effective to restore the economy and to relaunch economic growth, so that the increase in the debt burden, which is known to have been expressed as a debt burden-to-economic ratio, does not go too high for us and governments are able to successfully serve their loans. Perhaps briefly, as a central bank, we can still rely primarily on price increases and our inflation target. The task of the governments is to design their fiscal policy responsibly, and our recommendations to the Estonian government concerning budgetary policy indirectly result from it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U60	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U61	Thank you very much for your interesting presentation and your work at Eesti Pank in the event of a successful negotiation of the corona crisis, which Estonia has undoubtedly done, you can say this today! But I have a question, too. You have written an article on the blog entitled "Virus Economic Damage Treatment: Fast, Targeted and Temporary." I looked at the date too, it was March 16th last year. Now there's been a lot of water flowing into the sea. In one of your editors, I read that you highlighted the areas most affected: accommodation, catering, tourism and entertainment services. However, the National Audit Office's audit of the implementation of crisis measures has just been introduced and it has become clear that these crisis measures have been overexploited. My question: have you already examined and what has been the result, or are you planning to investigate how fast, targeted and precise these curative measures were?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U62	Thank you for your question. Indeed, such a recommendation, as you refer well, already last spring, as expressed by Eesti Pank and also in my writing, was that we should try to target well the companies and people who have suffered the most from the crisis. Whether a particular company finally needed exactly this support and how well, for example, KredEx or the Rural Promotion Foundation, in doing exactly their job, have targeted these grants, here, I think, the division of labour is reasonable so that the National Audit Office can assess, at the so-called micro level, how they see the success of what they have done. In general, we understood very well, for example, that labour market measures and wage subsidies were well targeted and very helpful. We were a little more critical at Eesti Pank in terms of direct lending to companies. It seemed to us that it would have been better to support businesses that need additional financing through more guarantees, leaving at least part of the risk of credit to commercial bankers as well. But I would leave it to the National Audit Office, which has already examined it and expressed its opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U63	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U64	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, I am interested in a question about the euro area. Which European countries is most concerned about their finances in today's situation, and how could this affect Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U65	In general, I think that, as I have already pointed out in reply to Mr Sõerdi's question, we must pay attention to the fact that it is precisely the countries with a higher debt burden that can grow in their economies and can now cope with the increased debt burden in times of crisis, in a situation where we know that, even before the corona crisis, there was a question of how sustainable public finances are. I don't want to bring out individual countries. We know that rather the southern European countries have relatively higher credit burdens today, which is why, frankly, I am keeping my fingers crossed especially for them. European support funds, which are reaching these countries to a relatively larger extent, also because, for example, the tourism sector, which has suffered a great deal from the crisis, is even more important in these countries, so that these [grants] really find use and investment in such a way as to turn the economy back on to growth and to avoid future problems in servicing loans. But we must certainly pay particular attention to the welfare of countries with very high levels of debt.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U66	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U67	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I will continue on the same line, still on the issue of stability in the euro area, because this debt burden, especially in the countries of southern Europe, is at the brink of bursting, and how many have been rescued from it, the numbers are already starting to get messy. If we look at the forecast of the debt ratio after the COVID crisis in Greece, it is already 200% of GDP, Italy 159, Portugal 130, Spain 122, and even France 117. So, what's it gonna be? It's a bankruptcies, and there's no shoveling or anything. Now, in your diplomacy, you said nicely that you should grow the economy, but in fact there is a risk of collapse, and this recovery facility would rather carry money there. As the Finns say, it's a tulonsirtorahasto.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U68	You referred to the risks, perhaps by assessing them a little higher than I see today, and we have pointed out in our report and the annual report. However, as far as the ability of countries to serve loans is concerned, it is clear that interest rates today are so low that servicing relatively much higher debt burden is not as difficult for governments as it was years ago. The question is whether, by the time the economy recovers and the interest rates are expected to rise, these high-debt countries will also be able to work well enough in their economies to be able to serve their loans without worrying about higher interest rates, at least slightly higher. In the short term, frankly, it is precisely because of the very favourable interest rates that we do not see that we should also be very concerned about the countries with higher levels of indebtedness.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U69	Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U70	Thank you, good vice chairman. Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! Instead, I would like to talk to you about Estonia. The Governor of Eesti Pank quite confidently said that the crisis is essentially over us, and this is definitely a positive message for society. If you look back a little bit, how many of the measures that the country offered to the Estonian economy helped our economy? After the crisis, are we going back to the same path as before the Koronapandemia, or have we been able to find a better way forward with these measures?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U71	Thank you for your question. Clearly, the steps taken by the government and the aid measures offered to support both those who lost their jobs and their income and those who were in difficulty were helpful. I said that last spring our forecast for economic downturn was several times higher than it actually was by the end of the year. I think that back there, in fact, the spread of the virus in Estonia and, consequently, the possibility of reducing economic activity was easier than expected. Our direct trading partners were also relatively better off than some other European countries. But it certainly played a role in the government's support measures. In particular, I think that the short-term labour market support and the wage subsidy measure were well targeted and beneficial. But how we can come out of this crisis and rebalance the country's revenue-costs is a separate problem. But, in view of future growth, it is really important that the planned investments by the government, which we know are once again growing sharply in the coming years, are as well and properly targeted as possible. In general, these priority areas, which have been agreed and concern the further digitisation of the economy, the greening of the economy, etc., I believe, are correct and will help the Estonian economy to grow and the prosperity of the Estonian people to grow in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U72	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U73	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I'm gonna make sure there's no crypto money here. I'm gonna cover this corner now. As I asked the Head of the Financial Supervision Authority, in fact, the desirable situation would be that every person could reasonably, well invest their money and banks, paying agencies, financial intermediaries would know whose money they are moving. These crypto currencies and virtual currencies have created concerns. I have a two-part question. Do these virtual world funds have a function, something they do better than we do now, the euro or some other currency? Is there some kind of niche why we need them? And if such a safe alternative, for example, is offered by the European Central Bank or by someone else, these e- or eurocoin are mentioned, what is the current state of play and what is Estonia's position?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U74	Thank you. I agree that this is a good goal in itself, so that the people of Estonia can invest and save well. Maybe the first step would be to have a desire to do it. But from there to crypto assets, what their role might be, I think there are different motivations here, why people have used crypto assets and why they also use them as investment objects. First of all, I would not like to call what can be bought on the market today, not crypto money, because it does not have all the traditional elements of real money, but rather this phenomenon in the central bank rather than crypto assets. There is certainly one part of the people who basically think that the traditional financial system is not secure and are looking for alternatives where, of course, there are very different risks and cannot be said to be safe. But, aside from this, it is certainly possible that the new technology will actually provide us with more efficient options, such as making payments, for example, maybe making transactions in securities, clearing, where today these chains are still very long and complex, so that one transaction can be completed properly. There's definitely room for improvement. Therefore, it cannot be denied that cryptography-based assets and payment solutions can certainly have a future. Consequently, when I referred to experiments carried out by the European Central Bank and also by Eesti Pank at the moment, whether the central bank itself could, in a situation where people wish to make payments using perhaps new technical platforms, offer an official currency, in our case the euro, on such a new platform. This is precisely with the aim that Estonia can be settled more efficiently and easily and that there is an alternative to cash, for example, which is available to people today, such direct central bank money. In order to be able to imagine it in the future also in digital form, as an alternative to, for example, cash settled through commercial banks or held in commercial banks, where the depositor actually takes the risk of a commercial bank, rather than being directly "central bank money." In conclusion, I think that the developments are certainly in that direction, that we are seeing the proliferation of digital assets and, ultimately, of the money issued by the central bank. But there really must be caution, because today's service providers are essentially unregulated. We don't know how reliable their different platforms are. It is not clear which of these hundreds of different crypto assets could actually have any value in the future. Therefore, I think it is worth being quite careful, especially when treating it as an investee.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U75	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U76	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress, thank you for your thorough presentation. I am not going to repeat the figures in the Anti-Poland Forest concerning the national loan amounts. But the question is still based on it. Many countries and superpowers are themselves very strongly, well it may not be possible to say that they have borrowed, but I have this feeling that still, because the printing of money is going very fast and it is also very easy to write money numbers today, there is no need to say how to cover it with the national gross product, as was the monetary policy in the past. How will the conservative and balanced system of budgets of our monetary policy in the future deliver when this bubble of the great powers burst? We're still gonna be down that whole mountain.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U77	Thank you for your question. The assessment of whether larger countries have borrowed themselves can certainly be different. However, it seems to me that there is no such concern at the moment. As I mentioned, especially because servicing, repaying and making interest payments on loans, even larger ones, is much easier for governments today because of the low interest rates. The most important thing, therefore, is the longer view that by the time interest rates are rising, the economies of all euro area countries will be strong enough and the tax revenues will be sufficient for governments to be able to serve these loans well. I don't see any reason to assume it's not going to work out like this today. As regards Estonia's behaviour in this context, first of all, we did not behave differently from other countries in times of crisis. The Estonian state, too, took out a loan to support the economy in times of crisis, which I think was very reasonable, and that is what the government should do in times of crisis. We have also been so lucky that our debt has been relatively low in the past, which is why the immediate concern that how we can serve our increased loans in the future is perhaps less than in another country. However, in principle, the understanding that, even after the crisis, countries' revenues and costs must be brought back to balance and to come back to some common sense of budgetary rules is certainly there in all European countries. If you look at the budgetary strategies put together by other countries, such as the Estonian Government, it actually seems that many countries are even more ambitious in achieving the balance of their budgets than the Estonian Government. So in this sense, the aspirations of the Estonian state here are in no way special. Finally, I think it is important to understand that, in a situation where the central bank, when doing its monetary policy and organising the same bond purchase campaign or lowering interest rates, is looking first and foremost at developments in the euro area as a whole, it is all the more important to maintain the balance of the country's local economy and to maintain a stable, affordable and sustainable development, so that it is the local fiscal policy that maintains this balance. In a situation where the Estonian economy is growing relatively faster than the economy of some other countries and monetary policy continues to be very supportive of the economy, it may be even more important to maintain this balance so that we are sufficiently conservative in our fiscal policy and once again heat the labour market across Estonia, do not eventually weaken the competitiveness of Estonian companies and cause too rapid domestic price increases.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U78	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U79	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! As we know, the European Union wants to channel EUR 340 million to Ida-Virumaa in order for miners to finish their work, oil plants to close down, and basically, in mining, everything is going downhill. Here in the Chamber on Tuesday, 1 June, Professor Alar Kon, Professor of the TalTech Institute of Energy Technology, made this proposal to the full, who said that it is harmful to our economy and it is self-destructive. I'm not going to talk about this any further. What I am interested in, however, is that since this programme needs to be implemented here in four to five years, how much inflation will be in this period, which will eat this money and its purchasing power and solvency will be reduced. Can you tell me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U80	First of all, thank you for your question. By way of introduction, perhaps, as regards the situation in Ida-Viru County, as a central bank, we are certainly not the biggest experts here, but I see that it is necessary to find a reasonable balance in achieving the climate goals that the Estonian state has already taken. We know that the environment may have changed even more on the financial sector side, and it is becoming increasingly difficult to finance non-climate-friendly new investments. Here we really need to find a balance between the success of the Ida-Virumaa economy, providing jobs for people and achieving climate goals as successfully as possible. However, as regards the inflation outlook, which was a specific question, the more precise figures concerning Estonia and the forecast we are about to take place here in the coming weeks. Probably this forecast due to the rapid economic recovery, and also the problems we currently have here with certain goods in the supply chains, it will be faster than we thought a few months ago. However, in our view, there is no reason to fear that inflation will turn out to be too fast in the euro area and also in Estonia and reach too far from the 2% target that we have set in the central bank across the euro area. However, inflation is likely to remain below 2% in the euro area as a whole in the coming years. In Estonia, he may go a little over it because we are still catching up on the averages of Europe in terms of our prices and prosperity, but I think not much more than that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U81	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U82	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, As we know, Eesti Pank also participates in the cooperation between the central banks of the euro area on various topics, but I have such a matter of general interest. What gives you the most interesting debates on the future for the next 10 years, 15 years?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U83	Thank you for an interesting question. That is not what I said in my speech, but I think that it is very important for the activities of the central banks of the euro area and for the main activity, namely monetary policy, that the European Central Bank, under the leadership of the new President, Christine Lagarde, has started reviewing the monetary policy strategy earlier. It is a question of what the objective of inflation or the rate we should target in our activities. This may sound like an abstract concern, but in fact, in the end, the policy that we do either by designing interest rates or, for example, by launching or ending bond programmes is very clear. This is a very important internal debate for our core business, which should reach conclusions and conclusions in the coming months, which can also be presented publicly. However, in addition to assessing general macroeconomic trends and, consequently, drawing up its own policies, perhaps there are two things that I consider particularly important myself and which we have very clearly on the agenda. I also mentioned them in my speech. The first is all about climate policy, how we should take this into account in the central bank. We have already decided that in the first half of next year, for example, we are going to report on the carbon footprint and climate impact of the central bank's own investment portfolios. Maybe there's a way to set additional goals. And also whether we should also take into account the climate targets set by the government in our other policy instruments and decisions. The other half relates precisely to this technological innovation and the possible emergence and future of the so-called digital euro, which I have already spoken about briefly. I think these are very exciting developments, which I may be able to tell you more about when I come here next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U84	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U85	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I would also like to thank you for your meaningful and interesting presentation. My question is about the stability of the global financial system. Currently, China's role in the global financial system is quite modest compared to its economic capacity and potential. But the Chinese are such masters of long-term plans, and they have grown their gold reserves to about 25,000 tonnes in 15 years, which is more than all Western countries combined. They keep their products, and via the Hong Kong commercial banks they buy up. What plan could the Chinese have, use such euphemism, to increase or strengthen their role in the global financial system? What could be their purpose? And when could they make any attempt to increase that role?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U86	Thank you for an interesting question. It is true that China's role in the financial world is less important than in trade and the economy as a whole. It also seems to me that the Chinese country is making a clear effort to ensure that this role is greater. It certainly gives an advantage to the financial system of one country if its currency is also used more widely outside its economy. This gives, for example, a very strong advantage to the United States. The euro is also used much more outside the euro area than the Chinese currency outside China. But it is clear that China is making an effort to change this situation. Perhaps there is also a role here, for example, when we spoke earlier about the digital central bank's money, that the Chinese Central Bank has taken a very active stance here and, at the same time, banned the equivalent use of private crypto assets, trying to cement its role in future national digital money. I think it is important that we also accompany all such monetary innovations in the euro area, that businesses continue to want to use the euro in cross-border transactions outside the euro area as much as possible. It is also in our interest that the international role of the euro be as strong as possible. But just as a reply on gold, just to confirm the fact, we have about 250 kilos of gold in the balance sheet of Eesti Pank today, which is worth more than 10 million euros, but it really accounts for a relatively smaller share of our total assets than many other central banks. The background here is that, when we decide on the structure of our investment assets, we have tried to find assets that, for example, are currently earning us interest income. Unfortunately, in the case of gold, it is a problem that, unlike, for example, bonds or shares in which we have also invested a little, it is not possible to make interest, dividends or any other income on gold on a rolling basis. At least in normal circumstances, it is perhaps a less attractive investment object. But such a traditional bearer of stability in some ways is gold, so we do not plan to sell our few gold reserves in the near future either.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U87	Mr President of the Bank of Estonia, thank you. Mr. Madis Müller, no further questions. Thank you very much. I will now open negotiations and ask for a speech chair of the Riigikogu from the Group of the Estonian Central Party Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U88	More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U89	Yes, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U90	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, Happy Members of the Riigikogu! In my speech, I would like to address the points that make the Estonian Central Party very concerned, and these points relate to the availability of housing loans. We are of the opinion that young people must have the opportunity to acquire their own homes or apartments. This is an incentive for people to want to start a family and raise children. We should consider the question of whether all the conditions have been created in Estonia. Eesti Pank considers that the real estate market is at risk of overheating. Despite the pandemic and the crisis, the current real estate market is very active, as the purchasing interest is supported by wage growth in most sectors of the economy. In addition, the restrictions that have increased people's confidence and shopping interest are gradually disappearing. It is also expected that in autumn people will have more than EUR 1 billion taken from the second pension pillar. On the one hand, these forecasts give hope for life to return to normal, but on the other hand, we should consider that if real estate prices and household indebtedness are to rise very quickly, the central bank is prepared to tighten the requirements for housing loans. Eesti Pank warns that the future situation with the overheating of the real estate market can be compared to the real estate boom that took place 15 years ago. The situation at the time led to people not being able to clearly assess their real possibilities and to take out loans for the acquisition of real estate, which was, in fact, too much for them. The banks, however, 15 years ago were happy to borrow without making sure that people were able to pay their mortgage bills each month. The proposed changes to the KredEx guarantee system are particularly worrying to the Estonian Centre Party. The target groups of KredEx housing loan guarantees must be reviewed, but young families must not be deprived of the possibility of creating a first home. We agree that the guarantee should move in such a way that it can only be used if the borrower does not have a dwelling. We can see that KredEx's guarantee is being used more recently, even if borrowers already have housing, but it is being rented out and a new and larger dwelling is being purchased. If we want to cool down the market, we need to be careful not to take the opportunity to create a first home from young families and young professionals. At present, the target group of a young family is a condition that the borrower's child must be under 15 years of age, but this is also the place of negotiation, whether, for example, the age of the applicant should be taken into account. Last year's guarantees included 7% families with children with borrowers over 40 years of age. KredEx currently provides young families, young professionals and people seeking an energy-efficient home with 10% self-financing of their home loan from the bank. In view of Eesti Pank's observations, this possibility could apply in the future to those who buy for the first time or the only home. In doing so, consideration could be given to the possibility of providing even less self-financing to families with children. We believe that for those who buy and renovate their home outside Tallinn, KredEx could offer more support. Support for renovation of apartment buildings by means of a longer-term loan could also be considered. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U91	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech from anyone other than the Group of the Reform Party Aivar Sõerdi. Please, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! Thank you once again to the Governor of Eesti Pank for a very thorough and very interesting overview. This covered much more than the usual annual report. It is quite understandable that this report devoted much attention to the role and activities of Eesti Pank in the pandemic year. Indeed, Eesti Pank's steps in the area of financial stability were adequate. Certainly an extraordinary situation, the extraordinary challenges were the time when Eesti Pank's advice and expertise in the preparation of decisions was very valuable and very important in making decisions. The production of economic forecasts and, on the basis of them, the performance of one of the main tasks of advising the government in making economic policy choices was certainly of great importance in this exceptional situation. Indeed, the review described in detail how Eesti Pank participated, for example, in shaping crisis measures and assessing their results. In fact, as has been the case in the past and in the future, the key issue still remains that these advices will be taken into account. These measures, of course, helped to maintain financial stability so that the banks themselves could cope with this situation and finance businesses. One measure, which was also described here, was that lowering the systemic risk buffer requirement, for example, allowed the release of funds to cover potential loan losses. All adequate steps! Of course, when we look at the euro area as a whole and at the activities of the European System of Central Banks as a whole, what happened was that the asset purchase programme was expanded and an extraordinary asset purchase programme was introduced. It also made loans favourable for on-lending to banks, as well as the extension of the range of assets eligible for collateral. All these measures fit in during the crisis. The report covered the euro area economy, the Estonian economy and public finances very thoroughly. As far as Estonia is concerned, it needs to be stressed that, compared to other Member States of the European Union, we had significantly less restrictive restrictions due to the pandemic than elsewhere and, to a large extent, the economic downturn last year was also smaller for us than for other countries in the European Union. Much of our economy remained untouched by the crisis. In the first quarter of this year, the Estonian economy was among the fastest growing countries of the European Union. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U93	How much do you want? Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U94	Here it really needs to be stressed that the pace of the reduction in the Estonian budget deficit was slower than in the euro area countries. It was also stressed here that there are Member States that have more ambitious plans than Estonia in reducing the budget deficit. Here, it should also be stressed that the public sector should not amplify imbalances at a time when demand is growing and insufficient supply is faced. We are in a situation where the budget rules have been suspended. At least until 2023, the European Central Bank's generous monetary policy, extensive asset programmes, is known to continue. But they all have side effects. We are already seeing signs of rising inflation. At the same time, the interest rates on government bonds are currently very low. But there will be a time when inflation will also become a problem for central banks, and the central bank will be forced to change the direction of monetary policy in order to suppress inflation. This, in turn, means that long-term interest rates go up, money gets more expensive, the growth in the interest cost of government bonds then becomes a considerable burden on public budgets. And countries have to take new loans to repay loans, but the interest on this loan may be much higher in the future than the current cheap loans. As a result, there is a risk that there will be fewer opportunities for investment and other necessary activities in the future. That's where I'm gonna end up. I wish Eesti Pank every success in maintaining financial stability! We would like to continue to receive economic forecasts and good advice. I wish you every success in ensuring the circulation of money and maintaining financial stability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U95	Thank you so much! I now ask Riina Sikkut, representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, for a speech chair in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U96	Thank you, good Chairman. Sir...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U97	A little extra time, maybe?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U98	Yeah, three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U99	Oh, I see. Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U100	Dear waitresses and colleagues! I am very pleased that the main annual reports held in this Chamber by both the central bank and the financial supervisory authority were put on today's agenda side by side, allowing for a much more substantive or better discussion of the issues involved, as well as obtaining a number of views from experts on one issue. Both presentations and questions covered a wide range of topics: from pandemic to fraud, money laundering, greenwashing, virtual world benefits and losses. In my speech, I also offer pieces here from here and there. First of all, yesterday, in this very hall, we discussed the development plan for Estonian language, which used a term such as language infrastructure, which could lead to alienation. But in this context, I would like to point out that all Estonian organisations and institutions have an important role to play in a beautiful and clear language and message. I would like to pay special tribute to the Financial Supervision Authority, which on its website speaks of a complaint and a vocation instead of any translation term. I very much hope that this type of language will reach these reports and discussions in this Chamber. But now, on the subject of substance, first of all, trust. Banking has had historically important confidence in the currency in which it is traded, as well as in those who hold our money and assets, will have a reputation of integrity, etc. In a situation where people don't know each other but want to trade, and banks don't know customers, but they want to borrow and mediate payments, those risks that arise are new, are different. We have come to the conclusion that, in the case of savings and loan cooperatives, we are discussing that yes, when it comes to credit institutions, they should comply with these requirements, [we are discussing] that banks need to know their clients, but that this does not prove to be a barrier to someone losing their services altogether. And now let's talk about what crypto currencies can do in that anonymous digital world. Is this a separate asset class? How can it be regulated? Should I adjust it? I think that next year we will also be able to debate this, but I am very pleased that the European Central Bank is actually thinking about whether the euro should also exist in digital form. I cannot imagine whether this means that M1 will be made up of a cash offer and a digital euro offer or an asset class, such as some kind of securities or shares traded. I very much hope that Estonia will actively participate in these discussions, will accompany both the development of this legal solution and the development of a digital solution. When such a change comes, it is undoubtedly important. And I think that Estonia has both knowledge of what virtually can be done, as well as experience of how to do it safely. So I really encourage you to accompany Eesti Pank in all these discussions. Now for two. The supervisors can be very good and Eesti Pank can create any interesting new digital assets or cryptoware at European level, but it is important that people themselves are able to invest, and just as the Governor of Eesti Pank said they would like to invest. I myself would like to move forward and I would also like to say that they could also invest. For this to be an income, there would be savings, which, at the moment, very many employees do not have what they can invest. So let's talk about acquiring housing or crypto assets. And if, like Buratino, almost none of us want to grow, it seems like it's against common sense, then for some reason all the things advertised on the coin-end, colored pages seem more reliable, that it's definitely growing something. Well, I guess the contribution to this money-wise offer is for the waitresses today, but we're doing exactly the same. Secondly, I would point out that digital is still real. Looks like he's a little easier or a little softer. If bullying is in the digital world, then maybe it's not real, or if the fraud is in the digital world, maybe nobody's losing anything. But this lost money affects our real life and whether we can buy real bread. So this white-collar crime isn't something softer or lighter or something that we can only solve in misdemeanor. Next, I'll mention the green future. I am very pleased that Eesti Pank is a member of the Green Network, appreciates climate risks to the banking sector and looks at the wider picture. If we aim at the European Union and Estonia, the Ministry of the Environment cannot do so alone. This requires a lasting change in society and requires that we have green funds and that we assess climate risks to the banking sector, redesign the tax system. If we really want to achieve this climate neutrality, even the central banks will have to make an effort. Now that people have accumulated savings during the crisis, the money of the second pillar, the European Union's resources, the resources of the recovery fund, and we need to make these wise decisions. Really, Eesti Pank can help with its advice and strength, but I hope that this knowledge base in policy making is something that will become equally pervasive. The green turn is not just about changing the plastic bag against the paper bag, these topics are much more complicated. We don't know how to make those decisions in this hall either. However, just as Aivar Sõerd concluded with a positive note here, I also encourage all these proposals concerning better regulation of the ombudsman's or the risks of savings and loan cooperatives to bring to this house both the Finance Committee and the big floor drafts. There is no doubt that there is a willingness to hold these discussions and to find solutions to these problems in this Chamber. So let's wait for a positive prognosis. And power! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-03_U101	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We have finished dealing with this item. I would also like to thank the Governor of Eesti Pank and all his colleagues and, of course, once again, the Chairman of the Management Board of the Financial Supervision Authority and his colleagues when returning to the first item on the agenda. The second item is closed and today's sitting is closed. Thank you. Good luck!
