ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-22_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the session of the 12th working week of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. First, it is possible to pass on enquiries and drafts. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-22_U2	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of five Social Democrats, I will address the inquiry to Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. The inquiry concerns the White Paper and discrimination. Today, the health crisis has been going on for almost a year and even more. Vaccination is expected to end the restrictions and to return to pre-viral time. It is therefore understandable that there is a high level of government and public attention to the availability and vaccination of vaccines. In Estonia, the aim is also to vaccinate 70% of adults by the end of the summer. Countries are developing vaccination certificates and the restrictions imposed by international airlines on air passengers are naturally taken. In the Riigikogu Question Time and when making a political statement, the Prime Minister said that the state will not intervene in the way the private sector sets requirements. Our questions concern health data, these are sensitive personal data, as well as vaccination, how and who has the right to process [data], who has the right to ask for human certificates of vaccination, but also that if every cafeteria, sports hall, bank and shopping centre decides whether it serves vaccinated/unvaccinated people, how equal treatment of people and access to the services necessary for life is ensured. § 12 of the Constitution does not permit discrimination against anyone. We also want to know who solves cases where people are discriminated against on the basis of vaccination status and how. We have eight questions, and we very much hope that the Prime Minister will respond quickly to them, if not in the first week of May, then perhaps it will be possible in the second week. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-22_U3	In the meantime, it was as if there were still those who wished for [the transfer of drafts and enquiries], but now they have all disappeared. I've accepted one question, there were no drafts today. Let's go to the presence check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-22_U4	83 members of the Riigikogu registered as present.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-22_U5	On today's agenda, we have one point: Members of the Riigikogu Urmas Reinsalu, Rene Koka, Siim Pohlaku, Anti Polandmets, Leo Kunnas, Helle-Moonika Helme, Merry Aarti, Paul Puustusmaa, Riho Breiveli, Sven Sesteri, Reuben Kaalepi, Peeter Ernitsa, Jaak Valge, Kert Kingo, Alar Lanemani, Martin Helme, Kalle Grünthali, Mikhail Lotmani, Jüri Luige, Helir-Valdor Seederi, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Helmen Küti, Andres Metsoja, Üllar Saaremäe, Raivo Tamme, Raimond Kaljulaid, Eerik-Niles Krossi, Erkki Keldo and Lauri Läänemets's Riigikogu's visit to the President of the Republic of Finland. There's only one reading on this bill, and that's what we should be done with today. I call Urmas Reinsalu, a member of the Riigikogu, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-22_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good people's representation! Turning to other national parliaments is not unusual in Parliament's work. According to my memory, our current address to the Riigikogu has been released in Estonia as a second address to the Riigikogu. The first was made towards the national parliaments of the NATO Member States in relation to Estonia's desire for integration into NATO. The core of this appeal lies in a serious humanitarian crisis. This concerns the thousands and thousands of Estonian people who are residents of Estonia but who work in Finland. For three months now, the movement of these people between work and home has been blocked by the decision of the Finnish State to close the border for persons who do not belong to narrow groups of vital services or who are not Finnish residents or Finnish citizens. This situation has been going on for three months. Three months! With 28 members of the Riigikogu, we submitted this draft decision on 27 January, i.e. the same day that Finland imposed these restrictions. Regrettably, this bill has now waited three months for its fate, but in that time the situation has not resolved in any way. Finland has extended its restrictions on different dates. As far as the latter is concerned, the restrictions should apply until the end of April, but they can also be expected to be extended further. The appeal to the Prosecution is driven by the desire to raise this problem at the highest level embodied by parliaments in a parliamentary state. There is no higher form of referral on behalf of one country to another in parliamentary countries. The general logic of this appeal, of course, highlights both the proximity of our two neighbouring countries and the people from a historical perspective, as well as the practical and trust-based cooperation steps we have made in overcoming the corona virus over the last year. Similar problems arose last spring, if we remember. On 20 March, I had a meeting with the Finnish Foreign Minister and we agreed on a special form of work: we set up a cooperation committee from the representatives of the two countries, which was responsible for discussing, first, practical cooperation between both countries in their national activities in the field of anti-virus, but, second, issues of cross-border movement, including the possibilities for the movement of goods and transit. Last spring, there was a problem when Finland closed the national border for workers just like it is now, but after serious negotiations, we found a solution and a way to restore labour migration in a situation where the virus was in the withdrawal phase. Compared to last spring, the fundamental difference is that last autumn, the Council of Ministers of the European Union adopted recommendations on cross-border movement between countries, which did not yet exist last spring. And those recommendations, to which all countries joined without exception, set out a couple of important principles. Firstly, countries avoid absolute entry bans, i.e. they do not apply absolute entry bans, and as anti-virus measures, countries implement either quarantine, self-insulation or testing. Secondly, the movement of persons involved in the transit of goods and the movement of commuter workers across borders are, of course, of particular importance. Both Finland and Estonia expressed their support for this decision of the Council of Ministers. In the current situation, we certainly do not question the sovereignty of the countries, nor, of course, the sovereignty of Finland on its territory, to build and organise antivirus in its best understanding. However, it is important for us, i.e. those who appeal to the bill, to negotiate without delay, which would lead to an agreement where, by applying confidence measures and anti-viral measures, it is possible to prevent the spread of the virus across borders, but at the same time to maintain the flow of commuter workers between home and work. We now have several tens of thousands of people in Estonia, who will certainly also contribute to the Finnish economy. We have several tens of thousands of people in Estonia who have had to make a very dramatic decision in a human sense in the last three months: whether to choose a job and stay these months in Finland with the knowledge that returning home means that it is not possible to go to work temporarily, or whether to choose a home and your loved ones. The resulting situation is that these people have been unable to work or earn a living for three months. The dramatic nature of this situation also shows the appeal of 1002 people to the Riigikogu, which specifically calls for the Riigikogu to discuss this issue and find a reasonable solution. The callers propose a general universal test to be carried out in Estonia in order to ensure security in cross-border movements. Since February Finland has already established the principle of general testing, including for Finnish citizens who come to the country. This has also been done by other countries in our region. Estonia has not implemented the principle of general testing despite the recommendations of our health advisory body. I think this is an example of this, especially in the case of the spread of mutated strains of viruses, that if we do not implement similar confidence measures and trust measures in transnational cooperation, the consequences of this could be such that they prevent transnational cooperation from finding solutions on the same platform for implementing confidence measures. This draft was discussed in the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs. During the debate, Members expressed their doubts as to whether it was polite for the Riigikogu to address the Eduskunna. I think it's our responsibility. The people of Estonia have chosen us here, and we must stand up for the concerns of the people of Estonia. We must, precisely by showing how serious this concern is, also address it to the Finnish Parliament. The Committee on Foreign Affairs also requested a separate meeting with the Finnish Committee on Foreign Affairs. Unfortunately, this has not happened. But, in my opinion, we should certainly use all forms in addition to the cooperation committee of officials from two countries to find solutions to the problem. What has Estonia done during this period of crisis to help these people? Estonia has unilaterally imposed stricter measures on those who come from Finland. I have to admit, the news, when I heard it, made me uninquiring. If you look at the virus's distribution numbers, in this situation, Estonia's interest is that our people should be able to move. So I think it certainly put the whole situation in a much more bizarre context, since we imposed stricter measures on those who come from Finland. I am convinced that it is our vital and practical interest to seek, in the current situation, precisely in bilateral cooperation, confidence measures that will enable, above all, the pendulum workers to move back and forth. It is certainly possible to use the test method and follow the rules of avoiding excessive contact when moving at home only in places that are strictly necessary and then returning to the Finnish workplace, to minimise the risk that people who move between Estonia and Finland could somehow be more virus distributors. Last spring, when the Baltic bubble was created, I had a proposal for representatives of the Finnish state that we try to create a model for cross-border movement, according to which we would have similar rules for people coming from abroad in order to ensure maximum free movement between the two countries. With the Baltic countries, this cooperation project proposed by Estonia was functioning in the low spread of the virus, but Finland chose its own path, certainly in the European context, a stricter route, and as a antivirus measure, control at the external borders of its country. However, in the current situation, I am convinced that the Estonian authorities and the Estonian Government are also prepared to put in place the possible confidence measures offered by Finland if we can reach this method and solution in this debate following the adoption of this approach. For also the appeal of appealers, commuters themselves and their family members, or signatories, is that they are prepared to take all kinds of trust measures, including tests with their own expenses and letters. At the moment, our rule is that testing is free of charge for Estonian residents. The text of this draft has changed. The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered this to be appropriate and the initiators of the referral were not opposed in any way, so this draft has been formulated. But the heart of the appeal to highlight the problem, to express a good spirit of cooperation and on behalf of the Estonian state, that we are willing to seek sensible solutions, where people can move between home and work without stretches, has remained the same. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that Parliament will support this document of special significance, such as the appeal of a national parliament to the parliament of another country. I believe that, in future communication, the Committee on Foreign Affairs will certainly be able to communicate with the respective bodies of the President. And I believe that the message or attitude of the Eduskunna is also one that leads, as we expect, to a debate and dialogue with the executive authorities in Finland, in order to find a solution to these issues without stretching. Because the situation has been going on for three months, and it may be even longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-22_U7	Thank you. According to our procedure, each member of the Riigikogu can ask both rapporteurs a question. And there are really questions. Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-22_U8	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, manager. Here's the question. In the introductory sentences, you stated that there was a humanitarian crisis in Estonia. This is a very powerful statement. Was this a glitch, or do you really want to extend this international definition?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-22_U9	No, I meant that in the sense of a particular case, how serious the situation is. This is undoubtedly humanitarian, but I did not mean the general definition of the international crisis in this sense. There is no doubt that this is a very, very serious situation and this is also the result of the special approach model proposed by the initiators of the draft. People have not been able to return home in three months. This is such an inhuman situation that, in the event of a coincidence in this virus situation, these people have been involved. I believe that, as a Parliament, we must make every effort to ensure that the concerns of these people are not overlooked in the context of all the other things arising from the crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-22_U10	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-22_U11	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Is there any information on the situation in Finland and Sweden? In my opinion, the epidemiological situation in Sweden is about the same as in Estonia. Will Swedes and Finns who travel to Sweden or Finland and return be treated in the same way as Estonian residents?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-22_U12	As regards these rules and whether we can say that there is a movement between Sweden and Finland that is somehow different from that between Estonia and Finland with regard to pendulum workers, that is not the case. Let us say, on the Finnish-Swedish land border, where there are so-called double-city double-city profits, it is, of course, that if, for example, a hospital worker works in one country and lives in another country, relief has been granted on land. However, as regards the general principles for people coming from third countries and the European Union from other countries, Finland has implemented them universally.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-22_U13	No further questions for Urmas Reinsalu. Thank you. I call Marko Mihkelson as rapporteur for the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-22_U14	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, The subject is, of course, really extremely important, given the fact that the current corona crisis and pandemic have raised many questions not only in relations between Estonia and Finland, or at all in this region, how we can together, while fighting this very dangerous and cross-border health problem, so that we can quickly restore a normal rhythm of life, both within and across borders. I believe that everyone who contributes to this, both here in Estonia at different levels, in Finland and in other countries, I have no doubt that their main aim is to ensure the functioning of the health care system, the possibility of providing people with medical care and that the pandemic should go away as quickly as possible in such a way as to enable us to restore our normal lives, as well as to change the restrictive measures that have caused problems in cross-border labour migration. This spring, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu has discussed the topic of commutation between Estonia and Finland, i.e. labour migration, on the basis of a draft referral by 29 members of the Riigikogu. But the committee's agenda has also included addressing our citizens, more than 1000 citizens, with a request to the Riigikogu to address this problem and, if possible, to find ways of politically communicating its message and, if necessary, to discuss it with Finnish colleagues internationally. But before I specifically go to these meetings and the decisions that have been made there, I would like to rectify a small historic moment. Urmas Reinsalu quite rightly said earlier that the form for expressing the opinion of the Riigikogu, such as the appeal, has really only been implemented once in the last 30 years. But this was not related to our NATO membership, but rather to the appeal to the parliaments of the United Nations Member States adopted here in the Riigikogu on 22 February 1994, where Russia was requested to condemn the aggression of the Soviet Union against the Republic of Estonia, the unlawful occupation and annexation of Estonia, as well as the ensuing genocide against the Estonian people. At the time, the Republic of Estonia was asked to support both politically and economically in helping people who wish to return to their homeland. Today we are only discussing another similar document, perhaps it has a serious weight in itself. I would say that this has been one of the reasons why the Committee on Foreign Affairs has been so thorough in its discussions and brought it before the Riigikogu at today's session. One of the reasons why our discussions in the Commission have been very thorough has nevertheless been based on the general desire that, if we make such an internationally targeted statement with such weight, now to the Prosecution of the Republic of Finland, it would certainly be more important for such an appeal than all the political forces represented in Parliament to support it. That would be the will of only 29 Members who have initiated this draft appeal. I must say that the discussions that took place in the Commission during these six sessions led us here today to discuss the draft text, which has been unanimously approved by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. In the Committee on Foreign Affairs, all the political groups represented in the Riigikogu gave their approval. For the first time, the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed this draft referral on 15 March. The initiators' representative Urmas Reinsalu gave an overview of the meaning and content of the appeal. At the same meeting, the members of the Commission also had the opportunity to listen to our ambassador, Sven Sakkov, who gave an overview of the situation of the COVID-19 pandemic in Finland at the time and the main reasons why the Finnish Government had imposed such restrictions. The debate in the Commission continued on 23 March and, at this meeting, Jüri Luik, Vice-President of the Commission, on behalf of the initiators, proposed to continue working on the text of the referral and to draft a new text as amended in order to achieve a greater consensus. Following a debate in the Commission, it was decided to postpone the decision to put the draft on the plenary agenda at the time. I would like to remind you that, in the process of dealing with the drafts, we have a requirement under the Home and Working Procedures Act that the drafts should have reached a large hall, at least for the first reading, within seven working weeks. But the reason for this postponement was the appeal of 1002 citizens, which has been handed over to the Riigikogu. I quote: "Let's do it! We give the Estonian people working in construction and all areas of Finland the opportunity to carry out their duties and come home, even for a moment, to listen to the representatives of their initiators. " This hearing took place on 6 April at a meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, where Viktoria Solomina, Deputy Secretary General of European Affairs of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Märt Volmer, who is also the co-chair of the working group between Estonia and Finland, and Natalia Kerbo, adviser to the Department of Diseases at the Health Board. At this meeting of the Commission, Viktoria Solomina, the representative of the initiators of the collective appeal, spoke about how this appeal took place. And, of course, the main reason, which really exists first and foremost in these thousands, is to say completely, among people who work in Finland with good will on the basis of a contract of employment, but who do not have a permanent residence permit in Finland. I stress that Finland has not, in fact, completely restricted labour migration, there have indeed been few exceptions for people working in key areas of life in the context of the Finnish Government. As we learned from Mr Volmer, these restrictions are similarly imposed on all neighbouring countries. However, it is estimated that the number of people travelling from Estonia to Finland is probably the highest compared to other Finnish neighbours, so it is quite understandable to raise this issue. In the Committee on Legal Affairs, as Mr Reinsalu has already mentioned, we have also been in contact with the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Finnish Parliament. Indeed, we also wanted to have a joint meeting with them, but since the Finnish Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs does not deal with labour migration issues and did not have any further information on this, we decided that the relevant information, including the procedural process we have in Parliament and the draft referral, will be passed on to our Finnish colleague by our President Jüri Ratas on his phone call. Now, at our meeting with both the head of the Estonian-Finnish working group, Märt Volmer, and Natalia Kerbo, adviser to the Health Board's infectious diseases department, the opinion remained firm that, first of all, the Estonian side has constantly done everything in our power to find the confidence measures through which labour migration can be restored, even partially, indeed temporarily for family members to meet. On the other hand, the most critical problem of all of these two or three months has, of course, been that Estonia's infection rate has constantly been several times higher than that of Finland. I would remind you that when we spoke with the Estonian Ambassador to Finland, Sven Sakkov, who resides in Finland, it was quite clear and unambiguous: as long as the infection rate in Estonia has not fallen significantly and has become even comparable to the Finnish figure, there are no significant mitigations to the restrictions. Right now, as we know, the restrictions really apply until 30 April. Nor can it be excluded from the current indicators that they may be extended. Members of the Finnish Government have so far announced that perhaps in May there will be opportunities to alleviate the situation. At its meeting on 13 April, the Committee on Foreign Affairs examined the new text submitted by the chairman and vice-chairman of the committee and decided (consensus) to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that 322 drafts be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu, including 22 April, and appoint the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs at first reading as the representative of the leading committee. The language editor's proposal specifies the title of the draft and has also made linguistic corrections to the text of the draft. The Committee on Foreign Affairs, of course, by making changes or proposing a revised text, also asked the initiators and representatives of the initiators whether such an approach was acceptable, and we received a positive response. At its meeting on 19 April, the Committee on Foreign Affairs reaffirmed (again by consensus) the text of the draft referral, as amended, as well as the Commission's explanatory statement. Now we have reached this point today in order to approve this draft appeal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-22_U15	Thank you. There are no questions for the waitress. We also have no amendments to review so that we can go to the negotiations. Representatives of political groups and committees can take part in the negotiations. First of all, I call Maria Jufereva-Skuratovsky from the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-22_U16	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Riigikogu! The Centre Party attaches great importance to political as well as economic relations and personal association between Estonia and Finland. Of course, the Centre Party also supports a referral to the Finnish Parliament. I hope that labour migration between the two countries will return as soon as possible. It is believed that the parties will do their utmost to put in place confidence measures to reduce the spread of viruses. Last year, labour migration between Estonia and Finland returned on 14 May. Against the background of the relatively rapid decline in infection rates, a strong effort should be made to ensure that labour migration can start even partially in the first days of May. If cross-border mobility is not fully possible in the near future, a temporary regime should be found in bilateral cooperation to enable families to visit. The current situation, in which many Estonians working in Finland had to choose whether to stay for an unknown period of time or go to work, has been extremely stressful for both thousands of workers and their families. We do not want to endanger the health of the Finnish people in any way, but we must try to help these people to see their loved ones again. I believe that restoring labour migration would also benefit both sides in the economic key. Finland is Estonia's main export and import partner. While Estonia contributes mostly to the workforce in Eastern Europe in seasonal work, it has become a habit for the people of Estonia to do additional work in Finland and also to gain international experience. The European Commission has proposed the creation of a Green Digital Certificate to facilitate the safe free movement of citizens in the European Union during the COVID-19 pandemic. A green digital certificate would serve as digital proof that a person has been vaccinated against COVID-19, had a negative test result or had a COVID-19. The certificate shall be free of charge and accessible digitally or in paper form. We should support the rapid processing and introduction of a digital vaccination certificate to return to normal. This is also one of the ways in which labour migration can be restored as a matter of urgency. I would also like to stress that Estonia and Finland are not just two neighbouring countries. I'm sure you'll agree with me when I say that we've grown more and more together with our northern neighbours. Yes, we are separated by the Gulf of Finland, but Tallinn and Helsinki can be safely described as a unique twin city. The word Talsing is increasingly used to emphasize our unity. We have a number of joint cooperation projects, and we will have to build a tunnel someday. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-22_U17	Thank you. Helmen Küttt, please, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-22_U18	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday, the United Nations published the list of the happiest countries in the world. Among the 90 countries, Finland has been the happiest country in the world for the fourth year. Jukka Lindström, a Finnish comedian on foot, surprisedly said that four times in a row seems too much, especially in a situation where Finland has the same weather every day as London on the worst day of the year. Estonia is 28th in the 90 countries. It may make us feel better that, compared to previous years, we have increased by 13 places, and certainly that Lithuania is the 29th and the 34th place in Latvia. Despite Finland being the happiest country in the world, the possibility of labour migration between Estonia and Finland is very important for our people who work in Finland. It is the people, children, parents, and grandparents who live at home and there, who give meaning to life and work and hope and vitality to the family as a whole. Thousands of people have a problem. They must decide whether to come home to Estonia and risk not being able to work in Finland anymore, or to stay in Finland and be in contact with their loved ones only through the TV bridge. But time goes by, children grow older and parents grow older, and everything that even when working abroad gives life a purpose is more worrying than joy. There is a high risk of deterioration in mental health and family relationships. Only a happy person works effectively and enjoys his work. Today's appeal of the Riigikogu to the Eduskunna of the Republic of Finland is precisely to find trust measures in transnational cooperation that would reduce the spread of the virus in cross-border movements, but would enable the movement of cross-border workers between our countries to be restored. This can be done, at least initially, as a temporary solution, allowing visits to the family and return to work. It is clear that each country will establish its own rules and, above all, stand for the security of its country and its people. This is respected by the Estonian state. However, cooperation and joint discussions are certainly important. Yesterday, Finnish Prime Minister Sanna Marin said that the government approved guidelines for mitigating restrictions, but that they would be specified for two weeks according to the corona situation and its evolution. Minister for the Interior Maria Ohisalo confirmed that there is a hope of moving forward with pendulum migration when opening cross-border transport, so that people can visit families and relatives across the European Union's internal borders. We sincerely hope that the appeal of the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia to the Eduskunna of the Republic of Finland will help to find faster secure solutions for pendulum migration. The relations between Finland and Estonia between governments, parliaments and people have been very good. As the head of the Estonian-Finnish Parliamentary Group, I can confirm that our relations with the Finnish Ambassador and colleagues in the Finnish Eduskunna as well. Historically, as a kindred nation, we have, over and over again in difficult times, helped our neighbours and also rejoiced at the success of our neighbours, whether or not they are the happiest country in the world. The Social Democrats support the address submitted and hope that the normal working and living arrangements will be restored very soon for families whose homes and loved ones are in Estonia, but work in Finland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-22_U19	Jüri Luik, on behalf of the Isamaa Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-22_U20	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Isamaa Group, I support the appeal to the Finnish Parliament. For us, this issue is crucial and we have played an active role in keeping this subject focused. I am pleased that today, as a result of the work of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we have reached a text that I hope will receive broad-based support. The Corona virus has confused the lives of many people. He has made the situation of people who work in Finland and whose family lives in Estonia particularly difficult. The inability to visit your family is a major problem and it is only natural that the power of the state has to deal with this issue seriously. People are finally the ones whose concerns we represent here. In the last difficulty, the members of the Riigikogu also addressed workers' families in Finland, with a statement with over a thousand signatures. The Committee on Foreign Affairs met with them and held a serious debate. We believe that the political push resulting from this appeal in relations between parliaments will contribute to resolving this problem. Both Estonia and Finland are certainly interested in resolving, given our close links and that those who work in Finland contribute to both the Estonian and Finnish economies. Of course, we must take into account Finland's desire and the right to combat the corona by all means possible. The sad fact is that the corona numbers of our two countries are different. But I believe that we will find an appropriate balance in cooperation between this fight and the functioning of the economy. We also take into account the human dimension of the right to visit family members. On behalf of the Isamaa Group, I call on everyone to support this appeal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-22_U21	Henn Põllaas, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-22_U22	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Do you hear me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-22_U23	I can hear you. Tell me, please! I don't think we're heard, but please tell me.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-22_U24	I think there's a problem with the connection.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-22_U25	This problem is only one-way. I don't know how we can signal him.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-22_U26	Ah. If you can hear me, it's good. I've got it all frozen up here. On behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, I welcome this appeal to Finland by the Riigikogu. The whole world is in a very epic and critical situation because of a pandemic. It will undoubtedly affect all countries and, unfortunately, neighbouring countries, as we are with Finland, in a negative direction. Our contacts and connections are disrupted, our work is disrupted. Although infection in Estonia and Finland is different, the second wave has so-called killed us, Estonia, very hard, not Finland, fortunately, it is understandable that we are trying to create bridges to restore this association under certain conditions, so that people can work there and also go home in the meantime. Of course, this must be done with respect to other countries, their wishes and their rules. However, since Estonia's situation is now quite clearly on the road to normality, I really do believe and very much hope that, together with our good Finnish friends and colleagues in Parliament, as well as between governments, we can agree and find these ways of bringing our relationship and movement between the two countries in this situation as close as possible to normality until all possible restrictions are finally removed. The Estonian Conservative People's Party supports this appeal and the debate and debate between the parliaments of the two countries. I'm sure it's fertile because we're tribal peoples and very close neighbors, connected to each other. However, these ties are closer to any other nation. So we're all gonna raise our hand on this side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-22_U27	Thank you. I don't see any more requests. I'm closing the negotiations. As has been said, no amendments have been received. Since this is a draft appeal and is only dealt with at one reading, we are taking a final vote. In the final vote, the appeal has been adopted when the majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is in favour of it. Let's go to the call for a vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft of the Riigikogu's appeal to the Eduskunna of the Republic of Estonia submitted by 29 members of the Riigikogu 322. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-22_U28	There are 83 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the appeal, no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been adopted. Our agenda today is exhausted and the session is closed.
