ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We can start our Thursday session at the 10th working week of the VI session of the Riigikogu. First of all, the ambassadors will be able to submit inquiries and drafts. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As we all know, the local elections are over. And now we hear the front reports of the successive confirmation of the salaries of the new elected leaders in one local government or another. And the question is not what the numbers are, but what the message is being given to local people and voters: the first thing that elected new leaders are going to deal with is the determination of their own pay, as if it were the most important issue of local government. This does not increase confidence in the activities of local authorities. In order to avoid this, the Isamaa Group will initiate a law amending the Local Government Organisation Act, which we would like to provide that in the future the elders and mayors of the municipality and the paid city council members will be assigned salaries and benefits from the previous composition of the council. Thus, the next composition of the council will be assigned valid salaries, as well as to the governors of the council: the governors and vice-chairmen of the council. So we have in the Riigikogu that the previous composition can determine wages for the next one. We believe that this is reasonable in every way and avoids the kind of situation that has now arisen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U3	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U4	Estonia is in an energy crisis, Estonia's people are in a crisis of coping. As early as October, the government decided that compensation would be paid in the form of small compensation, but partial compensation for the people underprivileged as a result of the increase in the price of energy carriers. Months have passed, and nothing has been done. Municipalities, including the city of Tallinn, have said that forgive me, from the state, from the top have not come any solutions for the development, and we will not pay out this money. On the website of the City of Tallinn, we are only starting to accept people's applications from 15 January. Yesterday, the press announced that people would be divided by local governments so that people would survive Christmas, holidays, food packages, because, forgive me, the government would not be able to organise the payment of support to uninsured people. I think it's brutal and shameful. That is why we are presenting a number of Members to the Prime Minister of the Isamaa Group to question. What is the reason, and who is responsible for the disorder that the underprivileged families will not receive this benefit at Christmas [for] that the holiday season will be such that not a penny will be paid out? Who's responsible for this? Why is this mess so bad? And second, if it's not arranged, let the municipalities pay out these benefits to the people, and they'll be settled afterwards. If someone has been wrongly paid, it is municipal rice if it has been paid. Why is such a system not organised? Or backwards: If local governments do not want to do this, it is also [the question] why they do not want to help their people. It's time-critical. We are asking, as the situation is so extraordinary, that the Prime Minister, exceptionally, would come here on the next working week, on 13 December, and would give the society, the municipalities and, above all, these people the answers, how we can organise this more smoothly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U5	Now, on behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one draft and one inquiry. The Management Board decides on their further processing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. Now we can carry out a presence check. We've got a technical malfunction in the remote control. We can't do a presence check right now. Still not working? Now it's working. Let's recheck the presence, please! Double doesn't rumble.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U6	There were no more people than double voting. 62 ambassadors checked in.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U7	We have an item on the agenda today. To this end, the debate on the national issue "The role, quality and foundations of high education" initiated by the Committee on Culture is crucial. There are four presentations in the debate. Aadu Must, Chairman of the Committee on Culture, will be the Minister of Education and Science Liina Kersna, followed by a presentation from Professor Toomas Asser, member of the board of directors of the Council of Rectors, and, finally, a member of the Riigikogu, the Chairman of the Higher Education Support Group of the Riigikogu, Margit Sutrop, will speak. I'm going to spend a little bit more of your time talking about who I'm going to talk to and how long they're going to give the floor. The Black Report is 15 minutes, followed by questions and answers in 20 minutes. Liina Kersna's presentation is also 15 minutes and there are 20 minutes for questions and answers. Toomas Asser has a similar time distribution: first a 15-minute presentation and then 20-minute questions-answers. And that's exactly what Margit Sutrop has. Each member of the Riigikogu is able to submit up to two questions to each of the rapporteurs and after the presentations there will be negotiations. When the presentations, questions, answers and speeches have ended, the Riigikogu will not take any decision. But then we'll go to the reports and ask for the remote Aadu Black. Oh-oh, we'll have a procedure first. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U8	Thank you, good vice chairman. But what about the formulation of your own opinion, or speeches? Can [the word] only be taken by the representatives of the political groups?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U9	Turns out I wasn't thorough enough. The speeches are that all members of the Riigikogu, representatives of committees and political groups can speak. At the request of the Committee on European Union Affairs... I'm sorry! There is no European Union Affairs Commission here. At the request of the Committee on Culture, I propose to the Riigikogu that there be representatives of the political groups first. We can go. Please, Aadu!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Rectors and Honourable Guests! It is a great honour for me to open a debate on a key national issue on the role, quality and foundations of high education. My role as chairman of the Committee on Culture is to introduce the subject and to present the relevant meetings and discussions that have taken place in the Committee to date. So don't mind if I don't start talking about the constructive positions of one party or another. After all, it was also announced that speeches or speeches would eventually come. And, of course, the following speakers, with whom we have actually drawn up this programme today to a large extent, will also go into the issues. First of all, to say a few words about the role, quality and funding of higher education [debate] in Parliament and in the media, you all know that this has been said not for years, but for decades. True, in different contexts the world is changing, the treatments are also changing. I don't want to go long on the historical-nostalgic side, even though it's close to my soul, but it's not a subject today. We have all heard that the role of education and the role of educated people in the creation of Estonian statehood was of paramount importance. In fact, it is said that over the decades an educated nation has been the guarantor and support of national independence. I have to say one piece, though. In 1917, when the Baltic Germans declared to Poska that you could not cope with your country, you did not even have educated people, it turned out that there were many educated people among the Estonians, but they had to be invited home from a large and wide world. Now something positive before you mention the critical notes. There's something positive about the newer time. I remember that I personally have greatly rejoiced in the Riigikogu in recent years about the fact that if another ten years ago, one area thought that the other was doing too well, starting from a general education school where some subject was taught too much, too little of you, and graduating with universities, it is now immensely sympathetic to see that universities are united on the front and fighting, working to make sure that our higher education goes uphill and not on the other side. Of course, there has also been quite a lot of talk about negative developments in the Riigikogu, not to mention the media, about what we do not want. And one or two or three Commissions have sometimes stressed that the education system does not provide enough specialists to meet [needs] in one or another area. We have all heard here how there are not enough doctors in the labour market, or if they move away, and there are no teachers, and there are no technical specialists. All of these, not to mention culture and all other areas, are familiar to us. And the most interesting thing is that there have sometimes been such nostalgic dreams that maybe there should be a restoration of Soviet compulsion, an apology, national direction or something like that. Fortunately, however, these trends have long since faded, at least among those who are familiar with the matter. What else? In addition to the positive and negative aspects of what is important, in the Riigikogu, we remember, through decades of efforts to promote higher education by means of higher education, other things have also been done, starting with regional policy, starting with what I remember first. Many, many and many universities must be made to the Estonian centres, but not with regional policy funds, but let higher education pay off these colleges and maintain them. In fact, the main task of my presentation or introduction is to talk about how this topic was presented here in the Riigikogu as an important national question at all. One way or another, one must first talk about cooperation with partners. The Ministry of Education and Research has, of course, been the partner of the most close cooperation on this subject. The legislator and the executive still have to walk in one foot, or there will be a complete Komorra. I do not have to talk about this at length because, as has already been said, after me, the Minister of the Chair will come and talk about these matters more seriously and precisely from the point of view of the Ministry of Education and Research. However, it is important to say that this cooperation, which led to today's OTRK, started us or started our work in 2020, when the Committee on Culture approached the Ministry and asked for a more precise action plan. It makes no sense for us to set the tracks if we don't know where the train is going. By the way, the Committee on Culture expressed one wish at the time, a specific number which reflected the views of the Committee on Culture at the time: the aim was to increase funding for higher education to 1.5% of GDP. However, we have not been so specific since then. It was also explained that the financing model must maintain the autonomy of universities, provide the means to achieve national priority objectives, teacher training, development of national sciences and medicine and other objectives. It was also mentioned at the time that the entire funding system for higher education, including grants and scholarships and everything else, would need to be restructured in order to maintain, increase, ensure the sustainability of funding in higher education. Of course, it was said that training should be ensured for specialists in important areas and in areas where there is a shortage. It has also been mentioned that perhaps there has been no mention of being guided for God, but maybe the corresponding scholarship systems have to be developed. And it was also said in the correspondence at the time that measures had to be found to increase the responsibility of university graduates to continue working in the field of study rather than going to a trained schoolmaster for agricultural work in an exotic country. We were talking about labour projections, the development of doctoral studies, and then we asked the Ministry to provide an understanding of the matter by 30 September 2020 at the latest. And indeed, we have also received a letter with quite normal and wonderfully meaningful answers on the quality, availability and financing of higher education education. I am skipping all the cooperation I have with the Ministry of Education and Research for the reason already mentioned, but the latest materials we have received on our table this November, where there was a good overview of paid and free learning and their opportunities, including in particular what could be paid in the education system, which is free and so on. Now, one milestone that everyone here noticed was that in 2020 a collective approach was sent to the Riigikogu on research and development and higher education. It was surprising in this sense that over the decades the university people have been rather modest, academically respectful and have not been insisting on anything with flags and songs. But at the time, indeed, such a call came to the topic of organising higher education and R &amp; D funding. There were a number of exciting points, such as the minimum wage and working conditions of an academic staff member, in specific figures. It was mentioned that salary should not be less than three times the minimum wage. And on this occasion, in March 2020, the Committee on Culture declared for the first time that we consider it very important to organise funding for higher education and research and that we wish to launch a debate on this subject as an OTRK at the current spring session. Unfortunately, there was a very positive decision on the funding of science before, and in this form, this great OTRK did not come. Well exciting and meaningful cooperation partners, of course, are rectors of academic universities. There have been different meetings with them in several formats, but the Committee on Culture met with them on 4 May 2021, where the entire Council of Rectors was present. And once again, without trying to take away a few words from Rector Toomas Asser, I say that the circle of topics was deep and meaningful. We got excited, we had [all of these] basic ideas going through. The current financing model undermines access to higher education; a completely new wage model needs to be developed. The pay of the faculty is worse than the pay of the teachers. It was also stressed, good people of the Riigikogu, that there is no stick to organise funding for all universities. Universities are very different. The Lord's zoo is the richer it is, and it also applies to universities. The topics included paid, partly paid higher education, pre-university preparation as well as specializations and where students come from in the first place. There was an external student problem, a system of student social guarantees and a number of such exciting things, but you can hear more about it separately. We discussed the same subject with the Academy of Sciences on 25 October 2021, where the academy president Tarmo Soomere and academics Lauri Mälksoo and Jakob Kübarsepp were present. And the Riigikogu was told thank you for funding this research for 1%. So you can all say that thanks again. But it was also shown that the financing of higher education in international comparison is weeping, to say the least. The attractiveness of the teaching staff's work has declined. And there was this thing called a free higher education pay trap. Hooray, we have free higher education, come study! You'll learn, but you won't get paid after it's worth it. So if there is a reform of funding, it must be borne in mind that [essential] is not just a free higher education, but that it must, after all, also guarantee the [regular] remuneration of professionals. There was a meeting with the Rectors of the Applied Sciences, and I looked at the clock and there was no longer a stop at it and a student representation. And perhaps one of the most important things I want to mention was the meeting with the Development Monitoring Centre on 30 September 2021. I personally received a strong creative impulse at this meeting because Uku Varblane introduced the work and plans of the Development Monitoring Centre and asked for our proposals as well. They promise in April that they will come with their materials to show where our higher education is going. And again, unfortunately, I can't refer to what was really exciting. The fact that I personally welcome the fact that one of the interest groups was created thanks to Margit Sutrop, who made the support group for higher education in the Riigikogu so that we could all be more supportive of this area. In the Commission alone, as I said, until September 2020, we talked about research and development together. Now we have reached a narrower focus. But in order not to get a comment from the head of the class, I'm not talking about the different positions of the parties, perhaps you'll hear it later, but I'll jump right to the last sentence or to the summary. You can't actually sum it up, because it's an opening. And we hope that this will be followed by a long and exciting series of discussions on 'Development Monitoring and Reports'. And I also hope that constructive promotion will be followed in this Parliament. That's all for an introduction. One thing was not said: thanks to the Commission, where everyone spoke very actively, they worked along! Those directly involved with universities talked more about their work, but neither did others show mercy, but put down trees, showing what society expected.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U11	Thank you very much. Now we can go to the questions. If we usually have an OTRK question for each of the waitresses, today we have gone to rhyme: every ambassador can ask up to two questions to each of the waitresses. Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U12	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Chairman of the Committee on Culture, First of all, I congratulate the authors of this report on ensuring that this debate can be held very professionally in this Chamber today. This is an emotionless, factual and probably very accurate picture of the current situation in the higher education landscape. You have been the head of the cultural and educational fields, Mr Aadu Black, for a long time. You've come from a university town where you've influenced political processes. If you had to choose the two most urgent problems to solve in the higher education landscape, what would they be? Can you tell me that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U13	The first one's very banal, and I can get a stick for that. In fact, underfunding higher education is still what the state must be responsible for. All areas say we need more money. As far as higher education is concerned, I dare say that applications for higher education are the most justified and clear and are also based on the fact that all that is required by national defence or science or culture must be able to offer higher education. This is the first and very important thing that needs to be resolved. The second thing is, of course, if you look at it from the state and not start to say that there is a problem in higher education, but it is definitely linked by the state to the previous [problem] and this is a question of the quality of higher education. We cry when politicians say give more doctors. But let's see how quietly the volume of doctoral studies in some places has dried up 30% and already the doctoral students ironically say, "Well, soon the master will be plus already the doctoral. " So God forbid we let quality fall. I hope I don't. Still only with enthusiasm, universities maintain this level.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U14	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U15	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! You said here at the beginning, it's like an opening at this point. I'm gonna bang, too, maybe in the wrong direction. But we have a beak closed, the tail is not open to students, those in Estonian, and we have to take more languages, and the other way around, education in Estonian is important. Let's face it today: speech robots already serve us in many places and we don't even know how often we get together with a real person. If Estonia, as a large e-state and a tiger jump and cyber center, would allow students from other countries to have this opportunity, maybe even these foreign students will understand English more properly, in addition to Estonian. Would there be a prospect?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U16	I mean, indeed, the problem of foreign students has been raised over and over again in very different contexts, from analysing their needs, [plus] migration processes and external students, etc. At the same time, it is also a matter of critical mass within universities. Sometimes foreign students are really needed to get the company of one of the professionals. I take speech robots a little bit like an outsider or something like children's computer games: I really like it, but I'm not a specialist. I like that the fridge starts talking to us in all languages, etc., etc., etc., but apparently the problems of higher education in speech robots, I think, will not solve. But they must be interesting and exciting somewhere else.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U17	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U18	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I, too, congratulate the organisers of this debate today. But I have a specific question based on factual data. In 2020, last year, about a third of academic staff in higher education received less pay than the average salary in general education schools. The worst of all is the Academy of Arts and the Academy of Music. But 2021, this year will soon be over, you can sum up. We have the budget adopted yesterday for next year. You have certainly dealt with these issues well in detail in the debate on the budget in the Committee on Culture. Does this tendency, even looking at the anomaly, seem to be getting worse or improving, rather than the extremely undesirable trend of this year and next year's budget? I am afraid that this will get worse, because next year, the minimum wage for teachers will increase faster than the operating grants for higher education institutions. What about this year and next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U19	I mean, it's one of the most painful questions. When we met with the Council of Rectors, as you also suggested, the Academy of Arts is having a difficult time, Mart Kalm, the rector of the Academy of Arts, said very clearly that at times these things are worse confused than in some other areas where people with a really higher level of competence [are doing more]. Well, it's like we have several separate education systems. There is no internal common structure, and sometimes it happens that you get little pay for a highly qualified job and that if you go to a lower [level] or even upper secondary school, which [often] is a grateful place, the salary is higher than that of the university's younger faculty. That's a painful problem. Additional funding for higher education is an extremely important problem, and I hope that it can only be changed in the event of political parties' consensus, and certainly the whole Committee on Culture hopes that today's debate will be followed by our starting to look for a cross-party consensus on these issues, in particular on financing higher education. It depends on all of us how quickly we dare to move forward. The country has failed to make its promises in the meantime and just to keep the cow wet on its back, so that it does not die, I compare it with the farmer's [problem], perhaps somewhere with an extra EUR 12 to 15 million a year. But we want to move on, and that's what we're sitting here for today: so that you can all help to dismantle this cart. I don't have a more specific answer. Madam Secretary may have one, but she speaks for herself.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U20	Ladies and gentlemen, we have such a procedure that the respondent has as much time as he wants, but the questioner has exactly one minute. Let's hold on to it! Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U21	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! Your introductory speech spoke about everything and almost at the same time nothing. You like history, but the parallels you're making here with agriculture I'm not quite sure I've understood all of them. But maybe that's my problem. You yourself have now curated this area for six years as chairman of the Committee on Culture; your party has carried five portfolios of the Minister of Education and Science for the last six years. I want to ask you what your role is. You say the subject has been a priority. Why, then, is it that this area has not received enough attention and funding, which you say there has been a great need? Why has it gone so far that it hasn't? And what do you think we can do about your leadership here in Parliament and in the Committee on Culture?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U22	Leaving aside the relatively personal part that I have done or that I have not done, I recall the time when the Committee on Culture was also a good player, such as Priit Sibul, and there were many thoughts that developed quite powerfully and well. But coming back to what I remember myself... Yeah, it was a long time ago, but I like history, as you suggested. However, as for what has been done at all and what I have been through, may God keep what I remember for six years when I attended the R &amp; D debate in the Riigikogu in 2007 with the same topics and talked about these same challenges and the importance of higher education. And imagine, the record says I deserved a round of applause. But when I came to the budget debate in the same way, the representatives of several parties asked where you were taking the money from. I did not earn a round of applause, but I earned a lack of understanding, because sometimes, it turns out, every Commission, every area, is ready to stand up for itself like lions. I apologized. Sometimes it happens that academic people are unable to enforce the Novgorod Water Chef or at another meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U23	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Chairman of the Committee on Culture, Here in this report, Professor Margit Sutrop has outlined one table of the proportion of people with tertiary education in the world in a certain age group, i.e. aged 25 to 34. The lead is Korea, where this percentage is 70. I ask a very short question: what year will Estonia reach the same level?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U25	I mean, giving up the tempting opportunity to develop the subject again, I'm going to go behind the tree and say that there will soon be a remote control called Margit and will answer it in more detail and in more detail and interestingly than I could do. So I went behind the tree. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U26	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U27	Thank you, Mr President. Good Commissioner Aadu! I'm sure it's important. In fact, I would very much like the importance of this topic to have been sealed by the Riigikogu at the third reading of the state budget yesterday. I'm afraid that's not the case, but it's better late than never. My question to you really comes from the area of the deficit in the area of funding for higher education. You also mentioned a regional aspect in your presentation: who should pay for it, whether the university or actually the state in addition from the state budget, in order to maintain regional convergence. Question: is it clear what we can do to help universities? What's the amount? If we say that regional higher education is also important, we want to keep it, and this is the price tag, what is the amount that we can deduce from the Riigikogu budget by tapping it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U28	Of course, this situation and the need are constantly changing. I have also heard glad tidings. For example, Pärnu has said that we are helping our college. But in another place it is said that, uh, close up if the University of Tartu is not willing to pay. So it's very different. I'm gonna owe you a specific amount right now, maybe I'm gonna go around the corner, cheat, and then I'm gonna come with an important face. But it is clear that this practice, so that universities can now come and make regional policy, is not realistic precisely because of budget shortages. And this is the ball back to Parliament: how can we solve it in such a way that not only the wolves have eaten and the sheep have been healthy, but that the educational life in the regions is active, and it does not all demand that we only take the money from the budget of the universities currently underexploited. You have so much regional work experience and local government experience as well, let's put our heads together! I don't think of such a good idea alone when we think of it together.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U29	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U30	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I rely on the concern of my colleague, Kruusimäe, for the robots. We have such a stage of development that we really have a great deal of robotisation and other technical systems to develop and move forward with. This requires the development of insanity, both in agriculture and in industry, as well as everywhere else, without it we will not make it. But we do know that generally, there is a greater pressure on soft disciplines than on engineering. How can we solve this question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U31	There are different solutions. When we in the Commission have approached [themes] which solution could be effective, it has turned out that political parties have different angles of approach. Obviously, this issue needs to be discussed and a scheme developed in the political groups. One [the thought] seemed sympathetic, but I must not be speaking here about the slogans of one party or another. Apparently, in a well-educated world with a command economy, that you go and learn it, nothing can be achieved today. This is not necessary and cannot be done. And, generally speaking, there is a large enough system of scholarships in the world. If there is still a highly necessary specialty for the state, then national scholarships must be increased or national scholarships set up for this area. And just like that, if some business or economic sector says that we're squeezed somewhere, then apparently there's another key word for scholarship. But that is not the Commission's position, because the various parties in this committee are still discussing it and arguing, and we will go on with you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U32	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U33	Thank you. Good waitress! You, as the organiser of this debate, would be the forecast with which we are breaking up today. My prognosis is that we decide that things must be free or very cheap. I would point out that this morning there was a major debate on the price of electricity and that the electricity fee was allowed to be paid by the state for hundreds of millions. There is no extraordinary coalition council for higher education [for the sector]. For at least five years, I believe that the funding of higher education has been taunted and, in fact, I was mocked as Minister of Education when I went [to ask for something]. The finance minister looked at me with fish eyes and said, "Hey, you already got $6 million." What are you predicting that this debate could be useful? Will the money finally come? And how much is it needed compared to paying off the price of electricity?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U34	Thank you, Jurgen! You're putting banana peel under my foot again: "Shit a little! " As the chairman said at the beginning, today's discussion ends without taking a decision. And there's nothing to do, nobody comes in a plastic bag like that and so much money. That's clear. Further discussions. I agree with this section that the vast majority of people in Estonia do not want us to go to paid higher education. It has been discussed whether one or the other section of education [may be subject to a fee] or whether student ownership could exist and be greater. It's been discussed. But further on, how much additional funding per year we will be able to ensure in the future, it will depend very much not on me and the Committee on Culture, but also on the experience of Jürgen Ligi, both the Minister of Education and the Minister of Finance, as well as on the contribution of your group. My goal, as far as I can imagine, is to achieve a cross-party agreement in the financing of higher education, which can never be as ideal as the bravest dream, but it must be significantly better. I can't tell you exactly if I don't want to skate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U35	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U36	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Lord Black! My point in life is that pops and saunas always talk about money and what they'd do with money if they had it. But I see one very, very scary trend in our higher education and our culture as a whole. This is an over-ideogism of over-ideogism, sometimes similar to Soviet over-ideogism. Will we also reach the conclusion in the next decade that students will start mocking, even physically persecuting, teachers with unpleasant views, professors, canceling, as we see in many universities in the developed United States?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U37	I have also read the articles that have taken place in Australia or the United States. But when we return to Estonia, I dare say that we all have our own experience. I do not master the whole spectrum perfectly, but I have seen the teaching of social sciences and humanities at the University of Tartu most closely. And I dare say that, as far as, for example, the closest colleagues are concerned, I am looking at a good colleague, Jaak Valge, who is very honored by the students, despite the fact that not everyone may share his ideological views.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U38	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U39	Good manager! Good performer! Rectors are sitting like cuckoos up there on the balcony, and say hello to them! Except for one who's going to take the floor. And you're talking such a beautiful story here. But yesterday we adopted the state budget and there was one such amendment, No 22, where there was a [proposal to allocate] 20 million to higher education institutions so that [there would] be an education in Estonian and also a younger group would receive a slightly more normal salary. But you and your good coalition mates were one of those who pressed the red button, 58 ambassadors gave a wolf pass on that debt of gratitude. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] And I ask, as a historian, can you say that your behavior has been such a Jesuit?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U40	Time, Peter!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U41	Probably can't. But let me know when the tribunal's going down, I'll be there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U42	Now we have 20 seconds left of this whole question-and-answer time, and I'm afraid I can't even ask another question, so let's draw a line here. Thank you very much, Aadu Black! Let's go to the next report. I invite the Minister of Education and Science, Liina Kersna. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U43	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Mr Asser, Rector of the Co-Rapporteur, and members of the Council of Rectors. To solve the problems, you have to admit them first. Do we recognise that we have a problem with funding higher education? Higher education expenditure as a share of GDP has fallen from 1.4% to 1%. The exact number for 2020 will not be available until the end of this year. The parties to the educational agreement have pointed out that 1.5% of gross domestic product should be devoted to higher education. In this case, there is a shortage of EUR 100 million in higher education. Thus, in a situation where the higher education system must seek solutions to train teachers, engineers and nurses adequately, how to ensure the widest possible diversity of higher education in Estonian and academic growth, the sustainability of the financing model of our higher education system is justified. The principle of funding higher education since 2013, where full-time study on the Estonian-language curriculum is free of charge for the student, has guaranteed all motivated students the opportunity to acquire high-quality higher education on an equal footing. In public universities and state universities of applied sciences, more students study free of charge than in the pre-reform period, also in a situation where the total number of students has fallen significantly as a result of demographic changes. The largest clustering of fields has taken place in the areas of business, administration and law, which were the areas with the highest number of students prior to the reform. At the same time, ICT has been able to double the number of its students. There has also been a significant increase in the number of students in the health field, both of which are important. At the same time, under so-called free higher education conditions, one fifth of students in business, administration and law also pay for their studies. There are most foreign students and many English-language curricula in this field. However, part-time education is also offered. Higher education systems have become more effective. The number of schools providing higher education has decreased by a third and their activities have become more efficient. The number of graduates has increased, including the number of graduates who have improved during the nominal period. Higher education institutions also teach more about their responsibilities. All higher education institutions have focused on their areas of responsibility during the period of performance finance. For example, the Estonian Academy of Arts and the Estonian Academy of Music teach 100% in their area of responsibility. More than 95% are also accepted in the curricula of the area of responsibility at Tallinn University of Technology and the University of Tartu. Both the effectiveness and quality of higher education are important. In addition, higher education must be sufficiently diverse and flexible and meet society's expectations, including those of the labour market. Good ambassadors! In international comparison, the cost of higher education in the Estonian public sector is the lowest both in terms of share of GDP and per student in countries comparable to us. Nordic countries and Austria, where there is a higher education system comparable to Estonia, the public sector contributes more than twice as much per student. According to the OECD, in 2018 more than 80% of the educational expenditure of Estonian higher education institutions was covered by the public sector, 11% by companies and 6% by households. The vast majority of our neighbouring countries in Northern and Central Europe offer it free of charge or for a small administrative fee of up to EUR 100 for students receiving their first higher education. In addition to Estonia, higher education is free of charge in Finland, Denmark, Sweden, Norway, as well as Austria, Malta, Cyprus and Greece. Some of these countries have introduced fees at the second level of higher education, while others ask for fees for exceeding the nominal time. Tuition fees of up to EUR 1000 apply to the majority of students in Belgium, Portugal, France, Luxembourg and Iceland, with up to EUR 3000 in Ireland, Italy, Hungary, the Netherlands, Switzerland and Liechtenstein. Several of these countries use the possibility that in certain areas, however, students pay tuition fees on preferential terms, such as teacher training in the Netherlands, or are exempted from tuition fees for socio-economic reasons, such as the need-based beneficiaries of study grants in Belgium. Countries with higher tuition fees, such as the United Kingdom, Ireland and the Netherlands, contribute significantly more than Estonia to paying grants to some students. For example, 65% of education expenditure in the UK goes to support students, 34% in Ireland, 4.4% in Estonia. The student benefit system is part of the higher education system and depends on whether higher education is predominantly free of charge or subject to a fee. We have had around EUR 13 million in funding for higher education grants and scholarships since the system was in place. Additional funding for higher education has primarily been paid for free higher education, i.e. operating grants. As a result, student grants have remained the same for the last eight years. These figures confirm that we have a shortage of extra money in the field. Good listeners! In view of the longer term, the debate on alternative models for funding higher education must continue. In the big picture, Estonia has three possible options for including additional money. If you continue with a model where most of the higher education costs continue to be covered by the state, but students would pay, for example, EUR 100 per month of tuition fees, the additional costs will be lower for the support system. Consider, for example, the place fee for kindergarten in Estonia. This model could bring up to EUR 25 million in full implementation of the system. What are the benefits of this system? This system provides a more level playing field for higher education students from different backgrounds. The positive side of the system is also that ownership forces you to think your decisions through in greater depth and not allow you to easily choose a specialty. There is also an increased incentive to stop faster than to pay for the following year each year. This system applies in many European countries and reduces the motivation for young people to go abroad to study at higher education because the system is cheaper. Minuses indicate that admission is likely to decrease somewhat. This particularly affects professions that are not already popular. Additional incentives and scholarships should be offered to learners in these disciplines, including exemption from tuition fees, for example. Part of the target group, such as students receiving needs-based learning grants, must definitely be exempted from tuition fees. The second option is that, in the case of significant ownership, students will have a significantly higher amount, which may have been set differently according to areas of study, but estimated at an average of EUR 3000 per academic year. Tuition fees can bring up to EUR 60 million to higher education. What are the strengths of this system? Some of the maintenance costs of the higher education system are borne by those who directly benefit from it, i.e. students. The effectiveness of the higher education system will be increased, students who have made an informed choice to study will be more motivated to complete on time. It is possible to guide learning choices by setting loan conditions. For example, it is possible to offer a return of a student loan if you move to a specialty that you have studied after graduation. But, of course, this option also has important weaknesses. The biggest weakness is that it will certainly reduce access to higher education. There will certainly be a significant increase in costs for the support system. And since it is possible to study cheaper in the nearest countries, the outflow of students to higher education institutions abroad will certainly increase. The third option for private funding is access to free higher education based on previous learning outcomes, i.e. a public training order system. This system was in force until 2013 and allowed universities to open up paid study places without limit in areas where there was market demand and the state ordered a certain number of free study places by curriculum. OECD experts recommended that Estonia not use such a system as early as 2007. The model, where free access to higher education is guaranteed on the basis of previous learning outcomes, remains in the European countries of Latvia, Lithuania, Northern Macedonia, Serbia and Romania. Returning to the system may bring about EUR 20 million to the system. It should be taken into account that, in a comparable volume to 2012, paid study places would not be open in a number of areas, such as education, ICT, technology and production and health. It can be said positively that in certain disciplines higher education institutions can earn extra money and this motivates higher education institutions to respond quickly to market demands. What is important is that some higher education institutions and professions do not have the possibility to earn any extra money under such a system. There is an explosion in teaching popular disciplines. The system also leads to a deterioration in access to higher education. These changes would be fundamental changes. But what can we do now to get more private money into today's system? Higher education can make better use of resources than today, specifying the conditions of study for free higher education. Amendments need to be amended, but this can be done by sticking to the current principle of free higher education. First, it is possible to limit opportunities for free learning at the same higher education level. Secondly, it is worth considering limiting the time for "rethinking." In addition, it is reasonable not to allow simultaneous study in several curricula or several institutions of higher education. There are also a number of possibilities in the current legal area for involving private money, particularly for people in employment. An example is the wider admission of part-time learning. Opening curricula with only part-time, i.e. without full-time learning, is exceptional today and must be agreed on an administrative agreement with the Ministry in accordance with the Higher Education Act. There is a way in existing administrative agreements for such curricula, but given the growing need for flexible learning opportunities, it makes sense to offer more of these opportunities. Higher education institutions can pay more attention to charging tuition fees to foreign students, including higher prices for third-country nationals. Higher education institutions have already started to offer a larger volume of continuing education and have developed paid micro-degree programmes that offer working people the opportunity to focus on these important competences at a particular moment, but later, they will also learn to defend the degree. Micro-degrees are very well received by learners. Higher education institutions could make better use of the primary idea of the law that demanding full-time education must be free of charge, but those who wish to study part-time could be charged with tuition fees. Good listeners! To conclude: funding higher education and the future of higher education in general continue to require social discussion. As the Development Monitoring Centre says in the report of the Riigikogu Support Group: the higher education system faces structural challenges. To preserve their values, higher education institutions need to become much more flexible and responsive to new career expectations. The Ministry of Education and Research continues to seek solutions within the field, but it is important to have a social agreement so that the higher education system can provide solutions to the problems facing the Estonian state. Thank you very much to the Council of Rectors, who have thought along and have contributed substantially on this subject. Thank you very much to the Research Policy Commission and the Scientific and Development Council, which have also given valuable feedback! And thank you very much to the educational support group formed in the Riigikogu and its leader, Margit Sutrop, who is very basically helping to find solutions at the level of the Riigikogu! This is also illustrated by a 77-page report specifically issued today. Thank you very much. Thank you also to the Committee on Culture for initiating the discussion. Only together can we find a better solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U44	Thank you. We can now go to the questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U45	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. I ask you the exact same question as the Chairman of the Committee on Culture, Aadu Black. The directors are sitting like cuckoos up there, look them in the eye! And there's a rector sitting in the corner, he's about to talk. Tell me why 58 coalition ambassadors pressed the red button [for a proposal] to allocate 20 million to finance higher education or higher education. There were people from the Reform Party. You're the minister. Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U46	Thank you for your question. Having been a very long member of the Riigikogu, I know very well that if the Riigikogu makes an amendment to the state budget, the devil lies in the sources of cover. And I believe that there was also no suitable source of cover for a specific amendment. At the same time, the objective of this amendment, which was to raise the salary of academic staff, is absolutely right, and this is a very serious problem. If you ask me, as the honourable Aadu Black was asked, what is one of the most important problems in the higher education system, it is certainly academic post-growth and the salary level of academic staff. That is why, in cooperation with the Rectors, and I have looked them in the eye, repeatedly, and I will continue to do so, we have allocated EUR 5 million with the agreement that this money will be directed above all to the increase in the pay of academic workers. For example, when I look at the decisions taken by the University of Tartu next year, the minimum wage of a lecturer, a researcher and a chief specialist will rise by 12% next year, which is more than for teachers' salaries. Their minimum wage is 1800 euros next year at the University of Tartu. The salary of a junior lecturer, teacher, junior researcher, chief specialist increases by 10.5% and the minimum is EUR 1550, which is also higher than the minimum wage for teachers in general education schools. But that certainly isn't enough. If you look at the decisions made by other universities, for example, the Technical University has decided to increase the minimum wage by 5% throughout the various stages. I very much hope that this small money, or, of course, the big money in itself, we will also argue a million over very hot, but EUR 5 million in wages will hopefully help to alleviate the situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U47	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U48	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, Although English-language programmes allow for full tuition fees, most students from third countries still study at the expense of the Estonian taxpayer. Here you have identified three options that we could sort of implement: EUR 100 per month, EUR 3000 per year and an old one. I would ask you this: why are we not applying tuition fees to third countries and, if we were to apply it, which of the three that you pointed out would be the real choice?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U49	Thank you for your question. I also pointed out in my speech that, in fact, today, universities have the freedom to charge tuition fees to foreign students and, in the case of students from third countries, this is largely done. It is a question of young people in the European Union Member States who mostly study free of charge, because our young people, too, can mostly study free of charge at European Union universities. But students from third countries can and will be charged tuition fees. Why aren't they doing some specialties? The rectors are up there. You can ask them for details. This is certainly the subject of university autonomy.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U50	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U51	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. This week you gave the Committee on Culture an overview of the extensive and detailed plan for the transition to education in Estonian. This is the first concrete step in our 30 years of independence towards a goal that has, in fact, been pursued here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, not taken and not decided. Do you see positive trends in higher education during the transition to education in Estonian? And what problems in universities could such a change in the organisation of education solve?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U52	Thank you. First of all, I very much hope that if we are able to implement the Estonian-language education agenda and meet the objectives of the Estonian language development plan, having mostly moved to Estonian-language education by 2035, talented young people will reach our universities more. We know today that many young people with other native languages, who are highly motivated and talented, who could also study in our very good higher education institutions, go abroad to study because they know better English than our official language. As far as the implementation of this action plan and the issue of funding for higher education institutions is concerned, this area also needs additional support in higher education. This is also envisaged in the action plan, as well as in the training of professionals for teaching children with a second mother tongue. However, we have already increased the number of study places in Narva College, for example, by the number of pre-school teachers who are able to teach children in other languages, with the resources available today. In any case, this is an area that also needs academic growth.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U53	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U54	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good minister! We have discussed the financing of higher education at length in the Committee on Culture. But right now, it seems that the priorities and priorities of young learners in professional choices are changing very quickly. Moreover, under the auspices of lifelong learning, there has been a tendency for numerous self-developments. Thirdly, the corona epidemic has also changed the learning processes. And there are definitely more variables than I mentioned here. I also read in this report 'The role, quality and foundations of high education', which is a very good material prepared by Margit Sutrop, that the rectors of various universities have been concerned that the needs of society in the professional choices of universities are moving backwards. Is it your vision that this is a problem and how to solve it if it is?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U55	The increase in participation in lifelong learning in Estonia in recent years has been a clear trend and we have reached a dignified Nordic level. 20% of the adult population participates in lifelong learning. However, if we look at what ambition is in Europe, in Europe we are talking about 60% of the adult population already having to participate in adult learning. If I have also proposed possible solutions by amending the Higher Education Act so that more money can be asked for in further education and adult learning, the weakness of these proposals is precisely that it can prevent the increase in the number of participants in lifelong learning or reduce the number of participants in lifelong learning. So I guess whatever solutions we're looking for, and finally we're proposing, we always have to consider the pros and cons of the system.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U56	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U57	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good minister! In your introductory speech, you said that about EUR 100 million was missing. You described quite thoroughly the problems and possible solutions in this area. I missed it or, rather, you could not describe the direction in which the Ministry of Education sees the possible solutions in which you are working. I hope not all at once. Consequently, what could these solutions be or what do they depend on? When can you share them with us? And could you tell us in what form or what amounts are currently planned to be allocated to higher education in the country's budgetary strategy in the coming years? If it was 162 million in the budget adopted yesterday, what could it be in 2023 and 2024?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U58	Thank you. First of all, this 100 million comes from the proposal for an educational pact. Their proposal is that 1.5% of gross domestic product should go to higher education, with 1% going to science. That's about the difference. As you have seen, none of the proposed changes will cover all this need. If you switch to a high tuition tax system in the Estonian context, the size of 60 million comes with the system's money. But at the same time, we need to make an immediate offset, because we have to contribute more to the support systems as a country. We have discussed these various funding models in the Research Policy Committee, in the Research and Development Council led by the Prime Minister, with the Rectors on several occasions, and we have come to the point that the Ministry of Education and Research is finding it difficult to analyse this system objectively, with sufficient objectivity. And that is why the Development Monitoring Centre, on the proposal of the Committee on Culture, took on this task and they will carry out a more thorough analysis so that we know what would be best for the Estonian state. I certainly don't think the Ministry of Education and Research is some kind of Ministry of Truth telling me how things have to be. It is such a decision with so much impact that it must be negotiated with the various stakeholders. This is the attitude we have maintained that we are trying to find a solution together. Finally, the decision will be taken by Parliament. Certainly, these changes [prefer] amendments to the law, and ultimately, all of you will be able to choose the appropriate color button when these solutions come up.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U59	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U60	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Unfortunately, I have to illustrate this situation with the third reading of yesterday's state budget. You made this 5 million example of an academic salary rise of 5 million. Unfortunately, yesterday, we knocked down 2.5 million in extra money in one pinch to Rally Estonia. This actually shows this degree of priority, unfortunately. And it's sad. It's like we're sitting in the middle of a building of higher education on fire, and we're talking about maybe installing a smoke detector. And the more I hear and read, the more I cannot understand what the problem is: either chronic underfunding or the transition to performance contracts, the strategic system in which we actually live today in the field of our higher education. What is the problem with us, as if we want to re-administrate the system, because everything is still not good enough? Are we paying more, putting in some extra money, or is the main problem, in fact, that we have continued to underfinance our higher education and continue to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U61	Thank you. I agree with you in this sense that do not tell me what your priorities are, tell me where you are going with the money. That's right. If we look at the Ministry of Education and Research budget, over 400 million will be paid by teachers. Over 300 million, 317 million go to higher education and over 200 million go to R &amp; D. And the 5 million that we were able to offer for the growth of operating aid, we did not get it as extra money, but it also came from within the sector. For example, last year, when the Riigikogu passed the state budget, it decided not to raise teachers' salaries. Teachers' minimum wage was not raised; they received zero euros. But higher education operating support was increased by 5%, it was just over 8 million. This was clearly a matter of value: which we value more. Higher education was valued, they received over 8 million, and the rectors of universities have assured me that it really helped. In particular, the Academy of Arts and the Music Academy helped to raise the salaries of their staff. So I agree that there is no point in talking about priorities, let's see where the money goes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U62	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U63	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Your last sentence was very precise. Indeed, it must be noted immediately that yesterday, however, this amendment, which would immediately give money to finance higher education, was not supported. Secondly, as a minister, you can very well describe the problematic situation that we currently have. However, I very much agree with your position when you say that together we must decide and choose the right model. But I still wonder what your understanding as a minister of what these models would be most sympathetic to you. That's the first question. The second issue concerns administrative contracts, administrative agreements with universities. At the meetings of the Committee on Culture, it has been said repeatedly that universities are actually offended by the state, because we are partly failing to fulfil the obligations that we have assumed. So how do you characterise this situation when the state has committed itself but fails to fulfil these obligations?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U64	Thank you for your question. I'd like to start by answering the question of exclusion. I don't think it's wise to go back to a system that's already been in place, or a national training order system. I think that the Estonian education system will not tolerate a large tuition fee, i.e. 3000 euros per year. I think that imposing an administrative fee would be one of the conceivable options, especially given that it would bring an estimated amount of money [in a sector] than going back to the old system. According to today's estimates, this could bring in EUR 25 million. At the same time, support measures must certainly be re-examined in this case, both in terms of the loan system and in terms of grants for studies. But they don't have to be as massive as in full tuition. But in implementing this system too, the state must certainly increase its contributions, only this 25 million is certainly not enough. What was the second question? Yeah, administrative contracts. The agreements are that they are not unilateral, they are always bilateral. And in the case of universities, it is the same that there are things that universities have been able to fulfil as commitments in administrative contracts, but there are things that have not been met. The State has said that, if possible, the operating grant will be increased by 5% per year. Last year it was an opportunity, this year we raised 3%.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U65	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U66	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, When you responded to the closure of the Bachelor's curriculum in Information Sciences at Tallinn University, you noted that universities must deal with their main area of responsibility. Nicely said. I also share the concerns of the rectors about funding, because as a lecturer at a long-term university of applied sciences, I have seen how quickly this affects university level. At the same time, however, I find it deeply incomprehensible to the large-scale provision of higher education in English, for example, for citizens of Arabic and other countries outside the European Union, of whom an estimated one third of tuition fees are not paid. However, those paying tuition fees also do not cover the actual costs. How does training of third-country nationals in English correspond to the main area of responsibility of universities, and why have our universities built a powerful Arabic axis in the first place? Is it necessary for the Estonian taxpayer or the Arab world? Why is such a choice made?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U67	Indeed, if you look at the numbers, the number of English-language curricula has increased since the introduction of free higher education, which gave you the opportunity to charge for part-time and English-language curricula. Certainly in higher education, it is important that it is international. The question is what kind of students we expect here, and that is also the subject we are discussing with the rectors of higher education when concluding administrative contracts. Our goal, however, is to have a common goal with universities, so that the foreign students who come here are talented young people, whom we would also like to see contributing to Estonian society. We know that we have a shortage of working hands, and all those foreign students who have completed a very good education in Estonia, if we are able to teach them Estonian language and culture, so that they are ready to contribute to Estonian society, this would be an important contribution to higher education in addition to teaching young people in Estonian. It's important. Certainly we should not move in the direction that only blue-eyed Estonians study in our universities.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U68	Thank you very much. Now the time for questions and answers has come to an end. All those who have not asked the question will have to press the button faster next time or will have their say in the negotiations. Next, I invite Professor Toomas Asser, member of the board of directors of the Council of Rectors, to make his presentation. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U69	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Minister, thank you very much. Good students! Ladies and gentlemen, lecturers and employers! I thank the Committee on Culture, on behalf of the Council of Rectors, for organising this debate today, but I also thank the Higher Education Support Group for the preliminary work it has done. On behalf of all the rectors, I want to talk about the responsibility for higher education, the opportunities for higher education, the goals of higher education, and partly about governance. But first of all, I want to talk about people, those for whom we build higher education, those who do it, and those who do not reach the university, but still win from the Estonian higher education. I'll start with goals and college responsibility. Higher education is not just a privilege for the chosen in developed countries. Higher education is a means of raising the level of education of the population and is a guarantee for a smart society. It is also an important part of shaping the social and health field, supporting regional development, is also part of internal security and will certainly help to achieve social cohesion in a wider sense. Science-based higher education, just as we should imagine higher education, is an absolute guarantee of a knowledge-based worldview. What does it provide for a particular person? It provides a professional network, provides greater opportunities for the labour market. It also provides the ability to participate in a more complex society, providing the ability to shape your future by learning through life. This means an understanding of better health behaviour, greater active citizenship and personal responsibility in all of this. Studying at a university is certainly an opportunity to invest in an environment that is relatively safe and inspiring and allows you to put yourself to the test, including making mistakes and finding future colleagues, finding friends. And this is the future of almost every young person. This is our future. And this is an important question for Estonia. For Estonia, however, the question is either a little wider or very much wider than the future of higher education. It is a question of whether we can make the small language of one small nation bigger, whether we can preserve and spread the culture of the Estonian people, whether we can ensure meaningful discussions on topics and terms that are not yet known in Estonian and in every area of life. Neither more nor less than the future of democracy in Estonia depends on viable Estonian-language higher education. And that's a national question. Responsibility for teaching and research means a wide range of obligations for universities, including the preservation of Estonian national memory and social property. This asset is a collection of scientific, artistic and historical values to be measured in millions of units and a large number of buildings included in Europe's cultural heritage, which I am not going to name specifically. This memory is a century or can be said without exaggeration, several centuries of collected information, monitoring and other data in all areas and in all, I emphasise yet, in all universities. Universities understand the extent of their responsibility, but also that the shoulders that bear this responsibility are those of the university employees. There have always been people in Estonia who can shift the limit of knowledge. We have people who deeply understand what is happening in top science and can speak about it in Estonian, can explain it to students, decision-makers and the public. And they keep the Estonian scientific language alive and the creation of others understandable to us. In Estonian universities, 3,500 academic positions are filled with people whose knowledge and willingness to teach determine the content of our higher education, the quality of the content of the education that we want to give to almost every other person in Estonia. And those faculty and scientists depend on what a schoolteacher can do, what a doctor can do, a nurse, and an engineer. I'm gonna do a digression, knowing what medical action means. One of the goals of medical activity is patient satisfaction. And achieving this satisfaction can only be achieved by communicating in your own language. But in the line that universities prepare, there are engineers and many other professions. What the environment and public services in the countryside and in the city are designed to be, all of this depends on our higher education. These people teach the young people of our own countries and other countries about Estonian culture and explain the value of maintaining it. It depends on how far Estonian music sounds, whether Estonian writers' works are translated in different corners of the world, and how many of them help Estonian entrepreneurs to carry out global competition abroad. It also depends on how well we can update our old skills and prepare for those unknown jobs and unknown situations that we simply do not know at the moment. It is no accident that people with higher education are less affected by the current health crisis. It is also no coincidence that many scientists and lecturers from medical and other fields have come to the country to help alleviate and resolve the COVID crisis. It is also no coincidence that a high level of vaccination among students and academic staff has helped to continue learning and teaching and also to continue research in universities. It cannot be said that the lack of appreciation for these people's work is also a coincidence. This is the result of the choices made when drawing up the state budget. The salary supplement for today's higher education is not small on the Estonian labour market. The defender of the Bachelor's degree earns, on average, more than twice the salary of a master's degree five years after protection, compared with almost three times the salary of a master's degree. This is one quite average score among the 12 OECD countries, based on country registration data. As a university head, it is difficult for me, as well as my good colleagues, to explain why teaching teachers is less valuable than teaching students, why teaching is less valuable than any other activity among the options for a person with a doctorate. Why the basic salary of half the lecturers with a doctorate is less than 10 euros per hour or a quarter less than 8 euros and 30 cents is impossible to explain. We have been told that under-funding for higher education does not appear to be anything other than the words of universities. It has been said that the rise of universities in the rankings, the success of graduates and the increase in research funding show that the situation cannot be so bad. But it is important to understand that the Estonian state manages and finances higher education and science separately. The fact that both activities are predominantly university responsibility does not mean that the university can interfere with these instruments at its discretion and by ignoring the rules laid down by the state. More than that. Smaller universities, as well as universities of applied sciences, are not recipients of research funding. They live in higher education with this stagnant operating support. And therefore it cannot be expected that the R &amp; D financing agreement, for which we are grateful and which we value highly, will solve the concerns of higher education. If we wait until the problem of funding higher education starts to appear in the declining rankings, then at that point, much damage has already been done. Then it has shrunk the growth of the offspring and already our current state of science. Yes, the damage is always hindered in some part, and the government of higher education can always reverse it. Yes, lost skills and knowledge can always be rebuilt. But in addition to money, the cost of this will be lost time, and today we can say, I think, lost generation or generations. Soon, young people who have completed upper secondary school during the Coronary Apandemia will reach universities and they will need more attention, more support, both professionally and generally. The state budget for 2022 does not take this into account. The value of higher education and universities is growing in Europe as a whole. Trans-European networks of universities have been launched with the support of European Union money. Initially, there is still a relatively small amount of support to be provided, and the collective activities carried out in this network depend heavily on the contribution of the home country. Unfortunately, our country does not invest in these networks. The state currently manages the activities of universities under the Higher Education Act, the University Act, the Research and Development Organisation Act and several other laws. The quality of universities' activities is constantly monitored through institutional accreditation as well as external evaluation of R &amp; D.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U70	Dear Professor, time's up. Can we make an appointment for a few more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U71	I'll take a minute if I may.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U72	A minute? One more minute, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U73	And I believe that this is enough to provide certainty in the rational use of the available resource. Today's debate is a debate on funding for higher education, and I believe that today we do not expect a direct answer to which direction we are going. However, I would like to say that higher education institutions, universities, also have to negotiate administrative contracts. And this experience, which we have experienced at the end of the negotiations on the previous management agreement with the commitment and funding offered, makes the forthcoming negotiations on the management agreement difficult or more difficult at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U74	Thank you very much. To the questions now. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U75	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Please do not take as a reproach, but I would say that all today's presentations are characterised by tunnel vision, which is understandable because we are focused on this particular topic. We could have a similar meeting tomorrow, for example, on funding culture, financing health care, financing regional policy, infrastructure development, defence costs, internal security, and the chorus would be the same everywhere: there is no money, the state must contribute more. As a scientist, could you now offer us what this recipe will ultimately be so that we can finance both higher education and national defence as well as everything else, so that everyone can have a good time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U76	Thank you very much. It is expected that it will be very difficult to provide a comprehensive answer and an answer to all questions here. The answer would be largely or almost [absolutely] dependent not so much on the background of these figures, but rather on political decisions and choices. But the common concern in all the areas listed here is, in fact, when we look at it, that we perceive that higher education is behind everything. Higher education is needed in all areas. And I think where else would it come from if not from our universities? So also to solve these areas [of concern], I think funding for higher education is somewhat like a precondition.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U77	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U78	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Rector! I have also asked this question when we met, asked and discussed with the Rectors' Association. It is usually the case that when politicians come to ask for money, as someone said here, there are many areas of money and everyone wants money, and the usual answer for politicians is to do your homework. I have a question, because the Minister in his speech pointed out that some universities seem to [teach] some of the specialties that are being ordered from them are 90%, etc. I have a question about your assessment not only of the University of Tartu, but more generally of the duplication of these disciplines in the context of competition from the rectors' perspective in Estonia. Because we need to understand that, in addition to teaching some disciplines at some universities, it is also important that there is some competition in the field so that we do not go to just one school in a small country. How do you think we're in this situation right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U79	Thank you very much. In the case of duplication, the term "areas of responsibility' currently [divided] may be used. The Minister also referred to this. I assure you that the role of responsibilities in large universities is great at the moment. Indeed, in the case of the University of Tartu [these curricula] cover 96%, so we will remain in our areas of responsibility. The same is true for Tallinn University of Technology. If you look at where this proportion is a little smaller, it's at a country university. It has its historical background in how the areas of responsibility have arisen, how these negotiations have been conducted, so that this must be taken into account. I can now confirm that all public universities have an attempt to move within their area of responsibility and remain within their area of responsibility. That's positive. At the same time, it is wise and reasonable to bear in mind that everything that is now being taken out of this so-called 'non-responsibility' area is certainly a complex issue for not only a specific university but also for the public. The last example is the case from Tallinn University. The University of Tartu has closed down the office of art, for example. This is not our responsibility. But it has its limits and it is worth thinking that closing everything in the higher education landscape actually narrows down the content offered by higher education and has its limits. But I think we are relatively well following these areas of responsibility right now. However, I do not exclude that there is certainly some duplication in certain areas at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U80	Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U81	Thank you, President-in-Office. Mr. Rector! With my question, I'm going to pull the beam away from where we've kept our focus today. But for a moment when you assess accessibility, I mean students, because you also started your speech by thinking about those for whom we are doing it, do you now have to put a low-paid higher education on the table versus the fact that those students who come from outside of Tallinn and Tartu are unable to manage in these cities [though well]? I mean, supposedly dorms are reserved in the first 15 minutes, the fees there aren't the lowest, but some of the places that the students have left are that the screwdriver left behind on the windowboard falls out of the window. How good is the situation on this side?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U82	Thank you very much. Without denying, that is certainly one argument when choosing your future higher education, your education. But I would not overstate it so much that the final choice of a person depends on it. When moving to one place or another, only the argument as to whether the [residency] seat is available and whether the remuneration for it is such as to be paid is not to be determined. The fact is also that in large cities, those students who live there tend to stay at the heart of one city or another. It can also affect regional colleges, and it is also left in Pärnu or Viljandi, for example, in the region, and also in Narva. But it doesn't matter, I think, in the context of the current quality of higher education and choice of disciplines, because some of the specialties simply cannot be elsewhere. If a young person considers that his or her study path should continue in one particular field or another, I think that none of the possible arguments you have raised can or will probably be the reason that he or she will not come to Tartu for example to be a doctor or a lawyer. That is certainly not the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U83	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U84	That's a question, a simple question. Rector, you said you didn't understand why teaching teachers is less valued than teaching students. But I'm sure you've thought a lot about it. Open up some of that background for what it's like.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U85	If this was now the final question, then this is how it has evolved. And he's evolved, you can't say for a very long time. This is indeed the result of the current system of higher education funding since 2013, which has now shaped the position of higher education institutions with the wages they offer. And the pay differential, the distinction is not just about teachers. The same can be said of public and private sector positions. For example, this is certainly the case with lawyers, it is in the IT sector, it is also the case with doctors, so that those who are in their respective educational positions in universities, especially in younger units of study, have the pay differential that is felt in the public sector, in the private sector and in the higher education sector. So this has been the case with the existing funding mechanism for higher education in the last 7 to 8 years.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U86	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U87	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, The current government has done nothing to stop the very rapid growth in energy prices and to eliminate or at least reduce the ideological components that have been written in them. But we know that electricity and investment must also be covered by operating grants granted by the State. While higher education institutions are now and will have to increasingly channel resources from the resources allocated by the state to heating and lighting the auditoriums, so that students have modern learning conditions in addition to high-quality learning, how do you see that you will be able to ensure that in the future, and we know that modern rhetoric says that high energy prices have come to stay at even the current level?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U88	Thank you very much. The fact is that the room has to be warm, which, if [act] with the electrical component, it will take [a lot of money]. In the case of the University of Tartu, the annual electricity budget is, I hope, very much, not less than 2 million: 1,8 to 1.9 million. And as of October, we had already gotten there. You realize that the gap has to be covered by something, and in turn it's cost-based, it's going to go to the sub-units. The University of Tartu is by far the largest in its volume and according to its surface, but more or less in the same proportion is if we took the scale, in other universities as well. When I look at my colleagues, I think they can nod. But if you answer the question, then the university will not be unheated and the study room will not be lightened. They must be kept operational. It is also appropriate to take into account that there are research infrastructures and buildings that also need [the money]. We can't stop all this, can we?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U89	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U90	Thank you very much, Mr President. Reverend Rector! The minister referred my question to you, and I will ask you again. Circa is one third of third countries [from native students], and has been assessed as being able to complete higher education free of charge in English-language learning programmes. And the Minister here also pointed out certain solutions for possible tuition fees. In one case it was around EUR 1000 per year, in the other case EUR 3000 per year. And now to the question: how is the example of the University of Tartu with third countries [students]? How many of them receive so-called free [learning] and where do they fit in with this minister's example? There was still a third option, i.e. to go back to [the system], where it was completely free, the university was able to impose it arbitrarily, it had an autonomous right to levy a fee. What about the University of Tartu?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U91	Thank you very much for your question. Indeed, in the case of third-country students, we can change this fee ourselves, introduce it. And in recent years, I can confirm this, we have a strategic decision taken at the University of Tartu to clearly reduce the number of students from third countries who are [learning] at the expense of our taxpayer. It's obviously not done exponentially. We can't finish this in one year. We have made a plan to approach a situation where the number of paying students will soon be around 70%. We're going to do it exponentially. There are some examples of Sweden and Finland. In Sweden, this was specifically done sharply, resulting in a dramatic fall in the number of students from third countries for several years. But the opportunities of the countries are very different and, in fact, the Swedish State contributed afterwards to reverse it and to certain support systems. In addition, in the case of Sweden, for example, there have also been a large number of private contributors who have come along with it, which, unfortunately, cannot yet be expected in Estonia. And it is certainly not right that, everywhere, this remuneration is currently below the critical rate of return. By universities, these fees are different, but specifically at the University of Tartu, we are moving in that direction, the aim is to get some benefit from it, as your question probably means. That's what we're gonna get. But in no case can it be seen as an opportunity or a method of final compensation for the accumulated need. Rather, universities want to contribute themselves to this situation, or, more specifically, to one of their wishes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U92	We have a procedural question. Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U93	Thank you very much. Rector, maybe you can adjust some microphones. It's bad to hear your answers around the back of the hall. And I'm sorry, I should have proposed this to the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U94	Yeah, a little bit of microphones can be raised. Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U95	Thank you. Mr. Rector! The University of Tartu is, as we know, the flagship of Estonian higher education studies and is the most prestigious university ranking in the world. present. The share of foreign students at the University of Tartu is 12%. The flagship of Finnish higher education studies is the University of Helsinki, and it is 101st in the same ranking and the share of foreign students is 6%. But foreign students do not necessarily have to study in English. And my question is: suppose that the University of Tartu offers foreign students only Estonian-language education, of course with the support of the previous full Estonian language learning. How much of these 12% do you think wouldn't be studying in Tartu?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U96	Thank you very much for your question. Understandably, I can't give you a very precise answer. However, I can assure you that, in the case of the so-called internationalisation component, we may have some room to increase it, this number of foreign students. But there are certain limits to this, and I think we are close enough to the fact that we probably will not increase the proportion of foreign students much more. Now, as far as the language of instruction is concerned, I am not very convinced that, especially for those who are studying here for a shorter time, we can plan it as a whole in Estonian. I think I'm staying in that position.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U97	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U98	Thank you, good manager. Mr. Rector! First of all, I would like to thank you for this speech. I think you have been very well enlightened by the impact of higher education on society. Yes, educated people are healthier, more resilient in crisis, better able to cope, more contented in life, so I guess you can sigh, so that, oh, we have the wisdom to invest in wisdom! And in this connection, I wonder whether instead of discussing in this Chamber whether to compensate universities for budgetary pressure from higher energy prices or how much to raise the pay of teaching staff, perhaps Estonia's direction could be the smartest nation in the world. So let's agree that half of every additional tax euro goes to education. Is the education sector prepared for such an ambitious plan? An education agreement, but would you like to take another step forward?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U99	Yes, the education agreement is a good term. If I knew exactly what it could contain, it would make sense to move towards it. Only if it is precisely [so could] whether this [objective] is sufficient alongside what is, or whether it is sufficient [to express] what we want to get from higher education, I do not know what to say at the moment. But when I say something at the very end of the story, I see that I have 40 seconds left, I think I did not have to say at the end of my story that we do consider this meeting with the Riigikogu Representation as an important matter of national importance. And I am indeed sincerely pleased that this quorum is in this debate. As the Minister actually said, and as Aadu Black said, I hope that this is just an introduction. Our hope and expectation is that there will indeed be a clear answer in the next Riigikogu. And I think I can pass on from the rectors that our expectation is this: it cannot be delayed anywhere, it must be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U100	Thank you very much. Now the time for questions is over and no more questions can be asked. We can go to our fourth presentation today. I invite the Chair of the Riigikogu to the Chair of the Higher Education Support Group of the Riigikogu, Margit Sutrop.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U101	Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Minister of Education and Science! Ladies and gentlemen, Good listeners behind the screens! I am really happy to give you my presentation on behalf of the newly created Higher Education Support Group, which today has 30 members, and I must say that there are still requests to join our support group. The OTRK, which was launched today by the Committee on Culture, also prepared a report on a key national issue, which has already been mentioned here. In my report, I would try to rely on this report. I would therefore like to thank all the authors of the thoughts in the report, including the rectors who helped to understand better the concerns of academic universities, universities and universities of applied sciences, as well as employers' representatives, students and parties to the educational agreement. The sustainability of Estonian language and culture, Estonian competitiveness in the world, and without exaggeration, the future of the Estonian state depends on the quality of Estonian higher education. Unfortunately, Estonia's future, not just higher education, is threatened by years of underfunding in this field of higher education. It is clear to all employers, rectors, lecturers, students and educators that the old ways can no longer be continued. Concerns about the future of Estonian higher education are also shared by this support group and the Committee on Culture. I think that a large part of Estonia's people really are the faith of education. Nevertheless, sometimes it seems that why education is good or why higher education is necessary has not always reached all decision-makers and perhaps not the people, because, as we know in politics, what the people want is determined by what political decisions are made. Therefore, allow me to dwell very briefly on what is the role of higher education, because this is also the subject of the debate in the Riigikogu today, not just the issue of money. There would not be an Estonian country if our ancestors had no wisdom, vigor and courage to lay the foundations for higher education in Estonian. The creation of the National University not only ensured the survival and development of Estonian language and culture, but also laid the foundation for an independent Estonian state, raising the national intellectual society. Interestingly, when the University of Tartu started working as a native university in 1919, there were only 800 highly educated Estonians in Estonia. How much is 800, you can see when you look at the photo that was taken in the Estonian National Broadcasting Show series, prepared for the national university's anniversary, the "Century of the National University," asking the University of Tartu members of today's higher education to meet in front of the university's main building for a moment. It's really a handful of people. But how many graduates do we need? The "Estonian Development Plan for Education 2021 to 2035" aims to raise the proportion of people with higher education from baseline to 40.8% to 45%. This is not much if we look at the OECD average of 46% and there are countries where it is much higher. But let us ask why we have higher education in Estonian at all. Estonia is a small country, a small country, but a good country that wants to grow up in spirit, preserve and develop the Estonian language and culture, reaching the best in the world in terms of both quality of life and economic performance. In the case of higher education, it is indeed important that it has value for people, for culture and for society. This is a prerequisite for everyone's happy life, for the survival of Estonian language and culture, for the functioning of the state and for the competitiveness of the economy. The value of higher education for a person comes from the fact that in an increasingly fast changing world, it gives a person many great opportunities for self-realization, opportunities to better adapt, cope, critical thinking in terms of information, complex problem-solving skills, reflexing ability and self-management skills. Although sometimes it is said that there is no wage supplement in Estonia, as high as in other countries, it is actually quite noticeable. While the average salary for people with vocational education was EUR 1135 in 2020, the average salary for people with higher education was EUR 1770, with a Master's degree of 1971 and with a doctorate of EUR 2328. It means: it's worth studying. Unemployment is also higher among VET graduates, where it is on average 9%, including less in secondary vocational education, 5%, 3% for undergraduate studies, 1% for master's studies and 1% for doctoral studies. Especially under the conditions of COVID, we saw how much education helped people not to become unemployed. Higher education has an important value for culture. This gives us the opportunity to raise the Estonian educational community, to prepare specialists for all necessary specialties. But it also supports identity, consolidates it and provides an opportunity to interact with the past, present and future. It is vital for society to train professionals with higher education, because it is people with higher education who are hauling away the development of society, helping to create economic growth and the competitiveness of the country, which also allows for redistribution and for the well-being of other people. Unfortunately, we see that the situation in higher education is not very good. 2013/2014. As a result of the reform of free higher education, which entered into force in the academic year, the state undertook to maintain higher education institutions which it was unable to meet. This is confirmed by the National Audit Office's report "High Education Reform and Labour Needs" of 17 October 2019. While the first three years after the reform came into force, the state compensated for the loss of private money for higher education institutions, since 2017 the funding for higher education institutions has been virtually frozen. At the same time, there are limits to the involvement of private money. Auditor General Janar Holm, in this same report by the Higher Education Support Group, confirms that it is high time to reconsider the foundations of funding higher education and what higher education actually spends money on, not only to compare it with international numbers, which really lead to a guarantee of the funding of higher education by 1.5%. The reform of free higher education has indeed fulfilled its objective in this sense that, although the number of students has fallen drastically, higher education institutions have more free study places than before the reform of free higher education. Thus, the free study option for students has increased. But are there opportunities to receive high-quality education in their mother tongue? If the state does not ensure sustainable funding for higher education, while denying full-time students from charging in Estonian-language curricula, higher education institutions will either limit access, reduce study places, close expensive specializations, make English-language study programmes where you can charge tuition fees or give in quality. The current financing model forces universities to switch to English-language education, jeopardising the future of Estonian language and culture. There are two prerequisites for obtaining free quality higher education, which unfortunately have not been met. First of all, a student must have sufficient income to study free of charge. The current system of student loans and grants does not guarantee this. Moreover, the reform of higher education has not reduced the number of students employed, rather the opposite: students work more than before. The report also shows that students spend 53 hours a week studying and working in Estonia. In the reference countries of EUROSTUDENT, this average is 47 hours. On average, working students devote less than seven hours to their studies than non-workers. However, this leads to a decrease in the quality of education as well as to the frequent interruption of studies and mental health problems for students. Secondly, providing free quality education requires that universities are given sufficient resources to provide this education. Today we are in a situation where the sustainability of higher education is in doubt. A third of university lecturers, regardless of doctoral students, receive less pay than teachers in general education schools. Universities have 633 academic staff whose salary was below the minimum wage for teachers in 2020. 112 of them have a doctorate. The lack of specialists with higher education in vital occupations shows that the ability of the Estonian state to function can be paralyzed. According to OSKA, the future workforce and skills forecasting system developed by the Chamber of Occupations, in the next few decades there will be two thirds of the growth of IT and engineering disciplines, from engineers to technicians. According to the Estonian Employers' Confederation, employers have high expectations of an engineering academy to be created, following the example of the IT Academy, which should increase the popularity of engineering disciplines. However, it is important to know that, although 38% have grown in the reception of IT specialties, the reception of technical, manufacturing and construction professions, which we also need, has almost as much fallen. The problem is that the admission of [their] specialties cannot be increased without improving the teaching of exact sciences in schools and increasing the number of successful graduates of a wide range of mathematics exams. Rector Tiit Land speaks in his text, which is published in the report, about how mathematics examination has unfortunately done a rather downward trend in schools. Schools already have a sharp shortage of exact science teachers, for example, 27% of physics teachers over 60 years of age. The COVID pandemic has shown how much shortage we have of nurses. According to universities of health, we need more than 500 sisters right away. Hospitals, however, also lack radiology technicians and bioanalysts. We also need more psychiatrists, pharmacists, pharmacists, clinical psychology. There is a lack of vocational teachers, which is an important problem in universities of applied sciences. How, then, can the challenges of higher education be solved? The debate on the foundations for funding higher education should bear in mind that a number of problems need to be addressed at the same time, not just the financial problem: ensuring adequate funding for higher education, ensuring equal opportunities for all capable people to learn, regardless of wallet, home language or place of residence, providing the necessary specialists for the labour market, ensuring the quality of higher education and ensuring the sustainability of education in Estonian. Let me describe them in a few words. First of all, agreeing on the basis of the funding. A cross-party agreement is needed, whether we continue with free higher education or whether we are going to at least partially paid higher education. If we continue with free higher education, there is a need to significantly increase the state's contribution. Rectors estimate that 100 million per year are missing in higher education. If the state does not find this money, higher education institutions must be given more freedom to create flexible learning opportunities, whether part-time paid Master's or micro-degrees, and to involve private money in different ways. If we agree on a transition to paid higher education, a system must be set up to enable young people to study the specialties that the labour market needs by deleting student loans and paying scholarships. At the same time, in order to ensure equal access to higher education, the need-based system of education support needs to be re-examined in such a way as to enable everyone, regardless of their parents' or their own wallets, to reach higher education and study while not working at the cost of health. In order to ensure the sustainability and quality of higher education in Estonian, it is necessary to establish performance indicators for assessing higher education institutions and allocating funds that support quality and ensure an appropriate balance between education in Estonian and internationalisation. If the state requires graduates with a nominal duration, higher education institutions must lower the requirements in the situation where the majority of students work, and the quality of education will fall. This, in turn, can increase students' mobility to foreign universities where the quality of education is better. If the state requires private funding from higher education institutions, but at the same time does not allow tuition fees to be charged in Estonian-language studies, the higher education institutions will have no choice but to carry out English-language study programmes where they are allowed to charge a fee. The sustainability of high-quality Estonian-language higher education also requires higher education institutions to specialise more in themselves and the Ministry to set up packages of incentives to increase cooperation between higher education institutions. In most cases... Two more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U102	Sorry, waitress! The Commission has given you a quarter hour. You want more time, I understand. Would you like some extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U103	May I ask you a question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U104	Yes, of course you can. Please! Two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U105	The number of students has decreased by a quarter. If we look at these figures that the double decrease in the number of university-age young people from the 1990s to the present date has reduced the number of Estonian students studying in Estonia by almost 18,000, it is clear that higher education institutions cannot continue in the same way. According to the Estonian Quality Agency for Higher and Vocational Education, strategic choices are very important and probably should be made in such a way that we increase cooperation rather than competition between higher education institutions. In training professionals for the labour market and providing the skills and knowledge needed for tomorrow's labour market, we need to think that everything actually starts in general education. At the same time, it is higher education institutions that train teachers in general education schools, and through research, they also design modern learning methods. Conducting a digital turn and a green turn may be entangled due to the lack of a sufficiently qualified workforce. Increasing economic growth and competitiveness in Estonia depend on the skills and knowledge that our employees have. Thus, different skills should be provided, including general skills, which, by the way, are provided by the humanities and social sciences in order to cope with ever-increasing changes. The preparation of engineers and health professionals should also include the learning of transferable skills, communication and communication skills as well as general skills. At the same time, teachers from all disciplines would increasingly need digital competence. The solution can be greater cooperation between different disciplines and higher education institutions and the creation of flexible learning pathways for lifelong learning. I very much hope that the debate taking place today in the Riigikogu and the activities of our Higher Education Support Group will lead to this common understanding of how to ensure the bright future of higher education in Estonian. I would like to thank all the members of the Support Group who helped to produce this report and who, together with me, believe that solutions are possible. Thank you very much for your attention and I wish you a good debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U106	Thank you very much, good waitress. You have questions too. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U107	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Here, too, in previous presentations, we have already heard some ideas about solutions, and the Minister also pointed out three more serious options. One was tuition fee of EUR 1200 per month, the other was 3000 [EUR] and the third was a so-called old model. Here, in fact, there is probably a fourth if the state simply increases its contribution from the budget. What is your own personal position, including being a very long, say, academic person? What option of these three or four would you prefer or [what would you] see that [they] could help us out of this crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U108	Thank you very much for your question. First of all, I would say that this report was indeed on behalf of the support group, which is why I also took stock of the discussions that have just taken place with the involvement of higher education institutions, education professionals and employers. That is why I tried not to state my personal views or the views of my party in the report. It is precisely at this stage that I consider it very important that we are working on a cross-party agreement. I think there's quite a lot of damage to it, pushing very hard on one view. Please do not get desperate, because I will tell you what it is when I answer your question as well, I would say that not my preference, but I will say where I see the risks, where there are the options and what we have to consider. I think that's the most important thing. It is not a question of someone's worldview, but of what could be a functioning model that would damage as little as possible and would have [less] negative consequences, for example, that many students would not be able to enter university because of paid education or even part of paid education, even though they are capable, or that we would deter those students who want to study in Estonia. I'll just bring back the number of students, how much that number has decreased. You see, it is interesting here, for example, that fewer and fewer young people continue their studies at an Estonian higher education institution after graduating from upper secondary school. This number should make us think that if we go to paid higher education, even in part, neighbouring countries that provide free education or that provide it for a small fee, such as the Netherlands, with their very attractive curricula, where 1,000-2000 euros will be charged for tuition, but there are very, say, individualized learning, very good quality, high-students and good international professors' teachings, students who would like to study in Estonia could also be attracted. We must certainly take this very seriously into account. Therefore, I think that whatever model we reach, as the Auditor General said in this report, is the worst if we do not make any decision. We can't just stick to the fact that we're talking. We have to make a decision because the situation is very bad. This means, knowing how little the Estonian state has resources, that we must, of course, consider very carefully what our opportunity is to support free higher education. I think that these opportunities are always there, be it first to look at the other free things that we offer, whether this free service is reasonably placed in the right place. Secondly, looking at our opportunities to raise money by investing in higher education. After all, economic growth comes from simply increasing productivity by highly educated professionals and increasing our total production, which is why everyone's well-being is growing. I think it's very important. These opportunities certainly exist, and this additional money must certainly be channelled to it. Clearly, we want lifelong learning to grow. But at the same time, very many people themselves have said that they would be ready as adult learners who are already receiving second or third higher education or who are receiving additional qualifications through micro-degrees, to pay for their learning if they receive a very good level of education. This introduction of so-called paid learning has also been recommended by the Confederation of Employers. That means you have to listen to it, too. But as the Minister said, I think our first starting point should be that we guarantee everyone at least the first education, access to education in Estonian free of charge, and then we will see where these possibilities for adding additional money are, so that we do not undermine people's access to university, but at the same time we can include enough extra money in universities. I think it is also very important to bear in mind the concerns of the councils of rectors, both universities of applied sciences and academic rectors, that the introduction of paid learning can have a very different effect on universities and different disciplines. I have also seen this because of my long experience, having been Dean of the Faculty of Humanities of the University of Tartu or also the Head of the Institute for seven years. The opportunities within the disciplines are very different. Our agreement must still start with what the Estonian state needs: what specialties and how many specialists are needed. We are the first to take labour market concerns on the table, which means that not the labour market, but the concern of Estonia, which specialists we need, we look at the need and ability to pay, and we find a result where wolves have eaten and sheep are healthy.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U109	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U110	Thank you. As I predicted on the first question, it still remains that the most important thing is free higher education. But the situation is that we need to get 100 million from somewhere. The question I have is: what is your current feeling, how is this possible in a situation where extraordinary meetings are held to control the price of electricity for hundreds of millions or billions? The Minister of Education has the task of raising research funding, raising teachers' salaries, tens of millions of grades, if not 100 million a year, and tens of millions are also needed for education in Estonian. What's your current prognosis? Funding for higher education is definitely part of the orphanhood. But what are the ideas?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U111	Thank you for your question. I wouldn't agree with my good colleague. I just said that the only thing that does not have to be the result is that we have all things available free of charge. As employers, as well as potential student candidates, have indeed said, they are willing to bring some private money to higher education. This means that these opportunities should be created. At the moment, the Ministry of Education and Research has created certain restrictions itself. For example, universities are allowed to do much less part-time study programmes than universities could actually do. Private funding can be included in part-time curricula; students are willing to pay themselves. These [study programmes] are currently only a limited number. These are mostly Master's degree programmes where students are able to pay for their studies themselves. I myself have been teaching at the University of Tartu for almost ten years on a curriculum such as a Master's degree programme in strategic management, where our leaders acquire new skills. At the Faculty of Economics, it's a curriculum. I must say that over the years I have praised the motivation of these students, their level and their desire to raise their education. It's a paid curriculum, it's very well justified. I think it is very likely to be one of those opportunities if we can allow such part-time curricula to study for a long time and pay for their studies, ensuring higher quality. It is also important, of course, to reflect on the choice that we would at least partially be able to make a transition to paid higher education. Except I'm stressing that there's no ghost here. I'm sure you're asking, or the respected questioner is asking, because of his political background. I understand that the spirit of the Reform Party, which I share, is that a person must contribute more, and that is very, very important for higher education. One of the things that I am sure will be blamed on the Reform Party is that it wants to do paid higher education. I can assure you that there is no such party desire to make all students pay without any guarantees. One of the very important starting points, I think, where we could start this discussion is that we are talking about the labour market. We're talking about what kind of specialists are needed. This means that if we were to introduce, if we were to decide in some way to introduce more paid higher education, this could not be done without a system of student loans and grants, which in turn would allow the state, by eraseing certain loans or by guaranteeing certain grants, to direct specialists to those specialties where people are most needed or to those areas where workers are most needed. This would require much more review, rethink and rethink of the entire system of student loans and grants. I would say that this possibility should not be left untabled at least at the beginning, but there is no agreement within the Reform Party alone or in this support group for higher education on the so-called outright transition to paid higher education, but leaving this possibility on the table and considering it is very reasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U112	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U113	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Margit Sutrop! I have a question that is still being asked to colleagues from academic background who have been elected to the Riigikogu. We know that you have worked at the University of Tartu for a long time and you are working there today. So where are the biggest scissors? What are the problems of looking at the university in higher education, and what are they looking at in this hall today?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U114	I'm going to start with a lot of different roles when I'm working at the university. I'll start with a role called faculty professors and tutors. According to my role vision, the biggest problem is, firstly, that often our students do not know why they are in university, what they actually learn, why they study it, and what career opportunities they have after graduating from higher education. Very many students cannot devote themselves to studies because they work, they are exhausted. It seems to me that quite often in the case of students, as I teach students from a wide variety of disciplines, ethics is a subject that students from different disciplines study, and I have also taught it in various higher education institutions, that a large number of students learn from work and not from learning. This means that the faculty must bend according to how the student's job enables him or her to come to exams, lectures or present his or her seminar[work]. It's abnormal. This has led to the return from the University of Konstanz over the years to work at the University of Tartu in a situation where, on the one hand, the state requires graduates with a nominal term and we must not expel students; we must not ask them too much, otherwise they will either interrupt [the studies] or leave the university. This means, in essence, we need to maintain the corresponding number of students and that we can provide them with education, transport them through the university and provide them with an education that we do not actually consider ourselves to be of high quality at times. This is the biggest problem because it results in a loss of motivation for teachers as well as motivation for students, good students, because they want to get a good education, and in that case we cannot really allow it to happen to them. That's the biggest problem for a faculty. Of course, there is a problem with pay. This is what I would look at, above all, as the head of the structural unit. Like I said, for seven years, I was head of the institute and eight years dean. Universities have a very high degree of autonomy. But basically, it means sleepless nights for the head of the structural unit, when, for example, the university board that I belonged to as a member of the rectorate decides to raise salaries. The university has the power to raise salaries today, which is why this educational agreement, which would require, for example, that we agree on certain salaries, is not suitable for universities because universities have autonomy. Money comes from different sources, research money and the execution of all kinds of contracts give us more opportunity and flexibility to shape wages. But the night without sleep is because the head of the structural unit is responsible so you have that salary to give up next morning, next month at all. If the universities decide to raise salaries and we can do that, then what might happen is that the structural unit goes to the minus. I've been dean once in a situation where one institute was down by 700,000. I don't know how many so-called private office managers sleep peacefully when their organization or their company is down to 700,000. We ended up in favour of structural reform, thanks to the application for various grants, the transformation of different curricula, the great collective effort, but this is a daily headache. This is the situation in which universities actually live. Being the leader of the structural unit, while also being a lecturer and a scientist, takes a huge amount of energy from a person. Thirdly, as a supervisor, I would say that as a supervisor of a doctoral student, you do not have a doctoral student to offer a motivation package to complete, because the doctoral student is signing a contract with the university and, so to speak, with his supervisor. He can be expelled with an accreditation, but it doesn't give much, because then you lose a doctoral student. By helping and helping him, the greatest number of problems arises as to how to complete this thesis, because no salary increase awaits this doctoral student after defending his doctoral thesis. I am really glad and grateful that it will be possible to conclude junior research contracts in the new financial year, which is one way of giving doctoral students an average salary of over 1600 next year. But the situation in which his supervisor receives only perhaps a little more salary and where the same doctoral student, if he continues, for example in the academic sphere, will lose his salary after defending his doctoral thesis, is not sustainable. I'm sorry to have to say this. The country has done a great deal to increase scientific money. Thank you very much to the Estonian state! Thank you very much to all those who started and fought for the science deal! But, unfortunately, it's not just greed, it's despair. The second step must also be taken, the education agreement must be made a reality and the money to be raised in higher education in order to ensure that this science agreement in general brings the consequences that we want: to increase the competitiveness of the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U115	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U116	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I would really like to acknowledge the work you have done to acknowledge the problems of higher education. As far as we have discussed these problems with you, it seems that we are generally in a similar position, especially when I listened to the very first part of your last answer, which concerned quality. The material you have assembled and sent to the members of the Riigikogu is also very valuable. But from this chart, where you show the proportions of the highly educated in different countries, you have excluded Russia, where the proportion of the highly educated in the 25-34 age group is as high as 64.1%. We have it now at 43.1%. My question, especially in terms of quality, is: how much do you think the high-educated share could be in Estonia? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Unless we devalue those demands.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U117	Thank you very much. This is indeed one of the things that we have also debated or discussed with a respected questioner in the Committee on Culture. My deep conviction is that education is never too much. Indeed, through higher education, we increase the ability of a person to cope in private life, working life, and social life. In some form, this contribution will come back, both to him and to the state, which is why, let's say, all the expenses that we would otherwise spend on the health insurance fund, the police, the social assistance, we will save if we have put that cost into education. Higher education in this sense is something that actually brings us back and is even profitable. The question is, what exactly should this percentage be? It's certainly relatively, let's say, conventional or, in a way, arbitrary. Like I said, it doesn't run off on anyone's side. This is probably more necessary for this calculation than for looking at the structure of the labour market when we really look at how many people with vocational training are needed and how many people with so-called lower education are needed. Estonia's greatest concern when preparing a lifelong learning strategy in 2020 was already very worried about the number of young people entering the Estonian labour market who have no qualifications for the labour market. This is a very big problem because they do not have any [preparation], not a higher education, but [preparation] at all. I think that is the main problem, and I believe that we agree on that. It's gotten better, now there's about one-quarter of them. But that's still a problem. As regards higher education and, for example, the same comparison with Russia, I would say that people from Russia and Ukraine, whose education and, for example, their skills in mathematics and exact sciences, are such that they give their eyes to very many who have been educated in Western countries, whether in Germany or in Austria or in another country. Therefore, these people can be very important for the labour market. I think something may have been lost once our education system has been rebuilt. For example, I think it was a mistake to introduce a broad and narrow mathematics examination by giving the wrong signal that it is possible to survive in life without you studying mathematics at a high level. This is why we are in a situation where we lack human mathematics skills, both in engineering disciplines and in many of the specialties necessary to implement a digital revolution and a green turn. Therefore, I would say that let us not belittle the fact that Russia has a very high number of highly educated people. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] The quality of their higher education is certainly different in higher education institutions, but that should not be the argument why we should accept a smaller number.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U118	Good waitress, thank you very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U119	Thank you very much, all of you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U120	Good fellows! I now come to the proposal of the Committee on Culture. The Committee on Culture has proposed to extend the current session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Let us begin with the preparation of the vote on this proposal. Good fellows! I am voting on the Committee on Culture's proposal to extend the sitting until the agenda item is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U121	With the result of 28 votes against and no abstentions, the proposal was not supported. Good fellows! Now I'm opening negotiations. The Commission has asked the political groups to speak first. Since I do not know exactly who the other political groups are, I assume that those who are the first in line at the moment are the representatives of the political groups. If I'm wrong, please help me. I would like to ask the representative of the Social Democratic Party Group of the Riigikogu for a speech chair, Eduard Odinets. Eight minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U122	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Honourable university rectors! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I congratulate my fellow Members from the Committee on Culture, as we have, by the end of a long and difficult journey, reached the discussion of a crucial national issue in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu. It is only a pity that we reached it the day after the adoption of the annual budget, when basically nothing can change any more. That is why today's debate will remain a statement of challenges and a presentation of political positions. That's good. However, the structure of today's debate cannot be satisfied. We have the chairman of the Committee on Culture, the chair of the Higher Education Support Group, the Minister of Education and Science, the representatives of the ruling coalition, whose task must be to provide solutions and not to present problems. They have the power of decision-makers; they have the state budget; they have all the means to alleviate anxiety. No, they are talking about reaching political consensus by the end of next year, before the Riigikogu elections, so that solutions come during the next Riigikogu. Perhaps, ladies and gentlemen, we will arrive at solutions at the earliest in 2024. I can't tell you what's gonna happen to our higher education by then. I hope he's still there. They also gave the floor to the Rectors. Sure, that's good. However, I would rather listen to the voice of those who are directly and actually affected by this important national issue in the Chamber. In addition to the rectors, those who have gathered in the cold before the Riigikogu today to express their mind and to convey their message. We politicians have already discussed all this in this Riigikogu building several times, we have spoken and thought, but unfortunately, we have not reached real solutions. But have we wished to make it, ladies and gentlemen? Are we? Estonian higher education faces a number of challenges that are getting worse. Everyone has spoken about them today in this Chamber, yes. The financing of higher education, taking into account gross domestic product, is in constant decline. We've heard. Universities' operating grants shall not be indexed on an annual basis, as provided for by administrative agreements concluded with the State. The salary of several hundred university teachers is below that of a general education teacher. The grants offered to students have been at the same level for ten years. Estonian students enter the doctoral studies less and less. The challenge is whether Estonian higher education meets the needs and expectations of today's labour market. The Social Democrats believe that Estonian-language higher education must be maintained free of charge. It is a question of sustainability in our country; it is a question of the future of our country. The state needs to increase its funding for higher education more vigorously, leading to at least 1.5% of gross domestic product. Social Democrats consider the Nordic model to be the only one where more than 2% are invested in education, such as Norway and Denmark. Upon becoming paid for higher education, the student will probably prefer countries where it is free or of better quality for the same money. Or maybe you don't have any higher education at all. Of course, if the current free model is to be maintained, it must be seriously reviewed and improved. Improving the system of student grants and loans, for example, in order to reduce student employment. Just as Aune Valk, Vice Rector of the University of Tartu, confirmed by the Riigikogu at the Higher Education Support Group seminar, the pros of the Nordic model will certainly exceed the cons if sufficient funding is provided. Applying this model with insufficient funding, as we have today in Estonia, will suffer from quality. Higher education institutions restrict access, more capable young people leave abroad, and a reduction in the secondary growth of academic workers will lead to even greater problems in the future, confirmed by Aune Valk. The Social Democratic Party has joined the educational agreement of the Association of Estonian Student Unions, the Association of Estonian Educational Workers, the Council of Academic Trade Unions, the Association of Estonian Higher Education and Development Institutions, the Association of Estonian Students Associations and the Estonian Young Academy of Sciences. We [support] the call for higher education funding to increase to at least 1.5% of gross domestic product and keep it at least at the same level. We [support] the call to apply for free Estonian-language higher education and free access to it. We support the call for motivational working conditions for educators. We support the call for student scholarships and grants in line with the cost of living. I'm going to end up in a slogan according to the politician. If we do not invest enough in higher education now, we are putting the whole R &amp; D, its sustainability and its potential at serious risk. And we do not have time to wait, ladies and gentlemen, for the next Riigikogu elections. It'll be too late. We have to act now. And I'm actually gonna end up with a slogan like, "More accessible education, a richer country." It is with this slogan that very different organisations came to this site today to express their spirit. But that is the case, ladies and gentlemen: more accessible education, a richer country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U123	Thank you very much. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group Aadu Musta. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I see someone watching and it's getting black in front of their eyes: Black on the remote again! However, I must speak in a few words about the positions of the Centre Party, in so far as, in accordance with our agreement in the Commission's report, I did not concern the positions of the parties, particularly my party. I am giving up on repeating what has been repeatedly said here, what is higher education, or even more so, to start talking about woes, because there has already been talk of under-funding, disproportionate wage policies, a possible creeping fall in the quality of higher education, insufficient satisfaction of the needs of the state and society and of development. I shall briefly mark and hope that it will also be understandable, however, what the Centre Party is aiming at in the field of education. You'll probably have to write about it for a long time. I reviewed our party program, three years ago. Indeed, there are a few dozen sub-chapters that speak of higher education in the very same spirit as has been said here today. But indeed, our first goal is a cross-party agreement. Yes, indeed! It is clear that funding and organisation of higher education require a cross-party higher education agreement, and this must lead to radical changes in funding. Because, as has already been said, otherwise this debt or funding gap accumulated over decades will continue to increase and beat the sustainability of our country. A few more things, though. Until we come to this major reform of funding, our group proposes that, until this agreement is reached, in the intervening years, there must be an increase in funding for higher education of at least 15 to 17 million each year, even 20 million in dreams, but everything depends on our opportunities to stop the decline. Now from the important points that we have discussed in the group. There is, of course, an urgent need to mobilise financial resources and, above all, private money, but not as the statistics once showed that [the private sector's share] rose, but after analysing it, it became apparent that it was a mamma-papa wallet for which the private sector's contribution increased. Taking account of the needs and developments of the state and society cannot be guaranteed by administrative methods, but by smart and thoughtful policies. We support a well-thought-out scholarship policy, special scholarships for students of major national trades, as well as corporate scholarships and, of course, that means a breakthrough in the financial model to realise it, as well as a significant increase in state resources already in this cross-party national agreement. Paid higher education, which has been discussed several times, is not, in our party's opinion, a suitable solution. Above all, because young people's abilities are national wealth, which, whether they want or not, is the final size, especially of a small nation. Young people must not lose their abilities. By the way, I would point out that not only, say, in the field of art or music, young people do not have certain prerequisites or abilities. Imagine that, even in mathematics and many other disciplines. Administratively, it is not possible to say that this specialty is now going to learn more. However, we do consider it possible that there are certain sections of higher education that, indeed, be they of high quality a priori, can also be implemented on a paid basis. We certainly consider it appropriate to increase the responsibility of students for paid education: that when they finish, they really go to professional work. Such a commitment could in particular be achieved through a system of scholarships. I think I forgot to ask for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U125	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U126	Particularly important for us, as other parties have said, is the performance of students. Several times today, there has been talk about student employment. It leads to quality. But there are exceptions, of course. The main exception, which is the golden rule of universities, however, varies from university to university, almost ideal, is when a student can work in a job close to his/her profession, which leads to synergies and allows for a good integration of knowledge and skills. I promise to end one such provocation. There has always been a question of how to assess today's level of higher education compared to... A good colleague, Onion, of course, says that Black is going to talk about history again, but I'm going to talk about it on purpose. When we talk on a long historical axis, it seems that we cannot read euros or crowns that are dedicated to it, not even square meters. However, society's attitude to higher education as a relation can be assessed as being a specialist compared to the position of higher education in society, as well as the relative share of higher education in funding and so on. And, you know, I have a terrible feeling. As far as I have analysed, I have a deep suspicion that both the lukewarm and [now] state, but we can expand that today's Riigikogu, too, has not been viewed on the historical axis of higher education. God save this mortal sin if I have to bear it as a collective and anonymous responsibility! Right now, I got to talk to the Fragmentarium. We in the group talked about the fact that we are writing a longer overview of our political party's higher education views. It's a provocation, or rather a positive provocation, a call. We couldn't tell you everything today. But it really wasn't the end of the discussion, it was the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U127	Thank you very much. I now ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech from the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Jaak Valge.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U128	I'm asking for eight minutes now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U129	Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U130	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear listeners, Of course, as an opposition party, we would be extremely comfortable to say that let the government seek out these 100 million, the so-called missing million. In these circumstances, where economic growth is rapid, more money is printed and inflation is often higher than the interest rate and the government debt burden of the Republic of Estonia continues to be the lowest in the European Union, it is not wrong either. I'm sure a lot of people would love it if the status quo were maintained, but just a lot more money. In fact, we should, of course, think further. I am going to touch on some problems, also a little bit more simplistic because of the lack of time, but still those to which I think little attention has been paid so far. They still relate to the extent to which our higher education training meets the needs of our society. Okay. First of all, we are asking directly how many people with higher education are needed. The overall attitude is that the more, the better, and this is also recommended by international organisations, that more. There is no doubt that the proportion of people with higher education in the countries of the evening is increasing. According to the educational development plan, by 2035 we should have half the number of people aged 30 to 34 with higher education. But if we are now essentially asking if the mental abilities of our young people have grown and are growing accordingly, that is to say, the prerequisites for acquiring undisclosed higher education, I say that the answer is clearly no. If we also look at comparisons with other countries, it becomes clear that the more successful the country, the greater the proportion of the highly educated. In Estonia, it is 43%, as has already been said. Indeed, it is slightly lower than the OECD average, which is 46%, but in Russia it is much higher, 62%, and in Germany, for example, much lower, 35%, in Hungary, rather low. Obviously, it's more complicated. Go on. Our labour market lacks engineers and graduates of technology and technology at all. There has also been talk about this, but in higher education, two thirds of these non-LTT courses form part of higher education. At the same time, jobs may not continue for graduates of a number of so-called soft disciplines. I'm gonna do a little detour, but it's not minor. At least as long as we still acknowledge that we have genders and are allowed to talk about genders, we must admit that we have 0.7 male students for every female student in Bachelor's Studies. This percentage of female students is common in Europe, except again in Germany, Switzerland and Greece. But we have a gender gap in higher education, one of the biggest in Europe. It has many broader negative consequences, starting with obstacles to family creation, as young men and girls of that age are simply in different places. This is likely to also indicate the prevalence of these soft professions in universities and that young men do not see a good outcome in higher education. Indeed, the pay gap between people with secondary and higher education is not very great. Once again, of course, I would point out that it is relatively different from university to specialization. Okay. Returning to this key issue: according to the OSKA labour force forecast, in 2027 we are missing a third of VET graduates, I would like to stress, of VET graduates, especially in these technical and technological areas. Therefore, it is a bottleneck in vocational education when we look at it from a social point of view. I have to say this from my experience here, too, as the chairman of the Higher Education Support Group stated here, that my colleagues and I have often visited the idea of why this person is here, because he does not really care about the area and he does not have the capacity at all. However, as a skilled worker in our society, he would have been very, very appreciated and very well paid. Have we not given these people the wrong signal to go to university, to let them pass well, to have a higher education diploma, and to do well after that? It may not be that way. Go on, on the same subject. Jaak Aaviksoo has claimed that the student study load is three-quarters compared to the time he studied. I dare say it's not more than half. In the light of these two knowledges, is the fact that the share of graduates is increasing all the time and we want to increase it further, and the fact that the quality of higher education has fallen is incorrect? I don't think that's wrong in any way. Of course, it's quite different once again. Okay. Finally, I come to this point, the subject of foreign students. The English language of universities and science is completely unacceptable in the EKRE view. Foreign students do not necessarily have to study in English. Moreover, the preparation of one foreign student in English for the Estonian labour market costs approximately twice as much as the preparation of an Estonian student at present. According to the Vice-Rector of the University of Tartu, only EUR 2 million and half of the students from third countries are brought into the budget by foreign students, so only 0.5% of the university budget. Indeed, there is no rational reason for this English language from the point of view of society. Again, I quote Jaak Aaviksood: it is entirely realistic to introduce a full tuition fee for foreign students from third countries. Maybe not 1000 or 2000, but 5000, 6000, 10000 [EUR]. If you do so, the quality of studies will increase, much more foreign students will want to study in Estonian and universities will also receive an additional budget. Finally. In my opinion, the dilemma between paid and free higher education is oversimplified. In our view, it is probably necessary to introduce a small tuition fee, but above all to increase students' motivation for learning, which in turn would improve the quality and effectiveness of learning. In parallel, a system of grants and loans should be launched in order not to impair student performance. The system of grants and loans and its flexible adaptation should focus on society's necessary choice of specialisation and employment, while also halting the English-languageisation of universities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U131	Thank you very much. I now ask for the representative of the Reform Party Group of the Riigikogu speech chair, Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U132	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, After all, there has been a lot of information here in a few hours that needs to be digested and that makes it difficult to build up some very fundamental speech right now. We have a report, we have waiters. But if you go back to the very beginning, I threw away before this debate, before this information about the claim that we are probably going out of here with the overwhelming idea that the most important thing is free higher education and the price of electricity, the money must be put into fighting spending rather than saving higher education from the current situation. Rather, I think we did not get much further from this skeptical forecast today. But maybe I'm wrong. I was wrong when I said that there was no point in making any science funding agreement, because everyone has allowed themselves to be broken, repeating. It happened that the parties still signed it. I think that this is not the way to actually make budgets. But this time it happened that the parties proudly gave up all their electoral promises, which were very sensible, and yet they carried it out at 1%. So there's a little hope that maybe it'll heal. I hate the word "cross-party," but generally, some sort of agreement would be necessary. This agreement is actually a little qualitative for me, first of all. I agreed with the views of the previous speaker at times, surprisingly, in the sense that, in party terms, we mostly have different opinions. But I would not stress, unlike most of it, higher education as such soup material that it should certainly meet some very practical goals and needs of society. It's overrated. In my opinion, higher education is also a value in itself, and the production of smart people is a value in itself. We will never be able to make precise recipes of him if good porridge or soup is likely to succeed in cooking. That's the next question. Of course, there are also these things, aren't there, the problems facing mankind are so burning that we still have to channel higher education into solving them. But it is enough for me to talk about higher education simply as a designer of wisdom and not really get into it. Maybe we can work something out. The financial agreement is in the order of 100 million. It's not like we're going to write it up on a topic-by-case basis here, and it's not really serious. We still have to start by ending the mess, not fighting market prices, not making extraordinary coalition councils, and so on how to pay for somebody's private consumption. These are completely different mechanisms for curbing inflation, namely inflation, rather than individual prices. We could talk about that for a while. Still, let's talk about how to make society smart. Higher education, according to my deep conviction, I'm not banging in front of anyone here, is a low priority area in the budget. But this general picture must also be described. We've got a budget for 600 million shot down, it's not going anywhere with today's meeting. The fact that we really want to get tens of millions into education in Estonian is not going away. That's what we need. Nowhere will the ambition simply go away to give teachers a raise. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U133	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U134	This, too, is in the order of perhaps 100 million, depending on the moment we measure. That's the real problem. But, after all, all kinds of structural reforms have gone off the agenda as a source of its cover. There's a pathetic talk about any expense and more, but the focus is off, and that's why the teachers' pay is out of place. But clearly, it will always be one of the priorities of the Minister of Education. That's number two already. After all, science [funding] also requires tens of millions every year so that we can hold on to 1%. This agreement should include the attitude that we are not dealing with crap. We are in the process of building a smart society. That's why education comes first. In turn, we must take into account that this is unlikely to go smoothly and, including making choices, we must also make uncomfortable choices. Indeed, today, higher education is at its worst in terms of the administration of the Minister for Education and Research. That's just the way it is. How did this happen? I spoke briefly. But this amount has been more or less frozen for five years. The Minister of Finance, who sat across from me in my term of office, took this matter as my personal interest. There was a need for understanding. I also tried to take it to this government at the time for such a vision, without any group interest. I really think so. But there were, of course, details I'd like to praise. The same thing that Jaak Aaviksoo [said] and Jaak, his most prominent, have just mentioned that the real quality of foreign students must be reviewed as to whether they bring money and why they should be given free [education]. Such small details, including the actual contribution of part-time students. But in general terms, this agreement still has to include that we do not start by being free of charge. We still have to agree that the right to tuition should be substantially extended. It is important to describe in more detail where risks arise that can be hedged, where an exemption arises. It would still be worth giving these tens of millions to this surface, still as soon as possible, not dripping here and there at the end of the budget, that everything is priorities at the same time and that everyone must receive equally. Higher education could be a priority without any slipping. But students, to sum up, live not only more prosperously but also happier and longer. Their contribution is in itself fair. It is not just a social good, it is also a very individual good. So let's make fair decisions as far as we can agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U135	Thank you. I would like to ask for a speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Isamaa Group, Mikhail Lotman. Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U136	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable rectors and guests! Dear Minister, Yesterday, the Riigikogu took the state budget, that is, we accepted [the] disgraceful state budget. This is particularly shameful for higher education and science. We will fix the gap in higher education for at least several years. I would like to point out that all the proposals made by the opposition, including the Isamaa Group, to increase funding for higher education and science, were voted down by the same people who today are giving inspiring speeches on the development of higher education. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been in politics and here in the Riigikogu since 2003. The compositions of the Riigikogu, the coalitions, the governments, also the rectors have changed, but there is the same problem, the same wording that we are going to think, we are going to do, we are going to form committees and we are going to think about how to finance. I have repeated the same thing over the years as Cato Junior: a country like Estonia must spend a minimum of 5% of GDP on higher education and science, with 2.5% coming from the state and 2.5% from the private sector. I am not going to talk now about how to make these investments more attractive to the private sector. These solutions are there, but I don't want to waste any time on this right now. I'll tell you again, it'll be minimal. It has been said, in particular, that the Reform Party has said that the state budget is not rubber, that we have fixed 2% of defence expenditure and that we cannot impose any additional expenditure on higher education. I want to create a categorical clarity here. Defence expenditure is indeed expenditure, it is essential and it must indeed be a minimum of 2%. However, when it comes to money going to education, it is not a cost, it is an investment, it brings back. Whoever's cheap right now, it's gonna be broke. Yesterday, a good colleague, Jürgen Ligi, told us that the economy was growing, he was growing. The economy is growing. Jürgen, I've always appreciated your lines. Not only growth, but also inflation, rising electricity prices. But some things get tough, like funding higher education. This is a very bad signal to society, and it raises questions about our sincerity here. What are we doing here? Much has been said about the functions of higher education here in Estonia. Indeed, two aspects are very important here. One is the role of the university in the development of national culture and the other, as well as the very important thing is the role of Estonia in the European cultural and scientific landscape. These things are connected, they can't be taken separately. The university once again has three important functions for itself. Most attention is paid to the first: universities train specialists. We need architects, dentists and so on. The second feature is perhaps more paradoxical: universities train intellectuals. Intellectual is not a specialist. Intellectuals can talk about things he doesn't understand. He can talk very attractively about quantum mechanics and agrology without proper preparation. These people are also necessary. Intellectuals are this mirror, maybe even a crooked mirror, but a necessary mirror in which society sees itself. The third, absolutely essential feature is the training of scientists, scientists, or when we talk about the Academy of Music or the Academy of Arts, the training of top-level musicians and artists. It's kind of a pyramid. This last part, these top-notch scientists, artists, is a small part, but without it, there is no point in those previous ones either. Only universities can and must raise researchers. It's a voluminous and arduous process. Estonian science is at a relatively good level, and at a particularly good level it is in the proportion of results and costs. But unfortunately, a new generation of scientists does not want to accept such expenses or salaries. This is a very serious threat to Estonian education, to the development of education and to its prospects. My colleagues in the Group have asked why I have not joined the Higher Education Support Group. I answer sincerely, because I don't think so. I don't think another group or meeting form or anything like that will solve anything. Such agreements have been made almost every time before the Riigikogu elections. After that, it turns out that the coalition unfortunately decides that it cannot, it was good intentions and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, Estonian higher education and Estonian science do not expect interesting ideas from us and from you about how to finance higher education and science, nor do we have witty and deep words about how to finance higher education. Estonian higher education and research expect funding from us. How they handle this money and what they're gonna do with it is their decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U137	Thank you very much. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Peeter Ernitsa.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U138	Good manager! Colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen, What's there to talk about? The new President, Alar Karis, has said that the aim should be a wise and educated nation. Everyone should agree to this. But these today's questions that Rector Asser, for example, asked: why teaching teachers is less valued than teaching a student at school? Why do half the teachers with a doctorate get less than ten euros per hour? Why, as Margit Sutrop said here, do most students have tired faces when they come to [Lithuania]? Question 4: Why do most students from distant countries study at the expense of the Estonian taxpayer? There could be more questions. But it's enough. In fact, it shows how we drift quietly, but firmly, from the words or declaration laid down in the Preamble of the Estonian Constitution, that what the state of Estonia is for in the first place is to preserve the Estonian people, language and culture through the ages, to the world. We are moving quietly, but also firmly, towards a federal state in the European Union, looking at the documents of the German new government, the largest country in Europe, so to speak. We are moving towards what really should not be our goal. Only 50 languages can receive higher education in their native language, but there are many, many more languages and countries in the world. We should not agree in any way. Mr Lotman said very well that the state budget adopted yesterday is a disgrace. The behaviour of coalition ambassadors, esteemed colleagues, is Jesuit. Jesuit! Remember, I would just like to remind you of Amendment 22, the content of which was that universities would not be accelerated into English, so that it would be possible to raise even a little bit of the salary of the teaching staff working there, especially the younger ones. The target was 20 million. But this debt in the last seven or eight years is 100 million. A fifth of it! But what happened? 58 coalition ambassadors pressed the red button. I couldn't ask the head of the Higher Education Support Group, Margit Sutrop, the time was just up. He too was the one who pressed the red button, and now he's happily speaking the right thing. I hurt the Dark One a little bit, I'm sorry he didn't push the red button. He just wasn't here. I don't know why. But that's the way it is. Pretty stories, but behavior and action are completely different. The Minister of Education said here, yes, in answer to the same question, that the source of the cover was not indicated or was not the correct source. But now we're getting to where the current state budget is going. That is where these [things] are very difficult to find. He's covered in such a thick generalisation and secrecy, and it's hard to tell where to find it. It's a reality. We have various agreements: national defence 2% and so on. We're talking about the education pact now, but the green agreement, the evil fruit of which is perceived... I'd like a few more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U139	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U140	... every Estonian or at least most of them, including universities on their electricity bills, we have not spoken or very little talked about, but it is estimated that this also means at least 2% of GDP. So at least 2% for defence, 2% for green contract and a big green turn. We're not going to talk about the educational pact right now. Here I agree with my colleague Jürgen Ligi, who spoke of the focus that this is out of focus. I'm going to expand Jürgen's mind a little bit. Focus is out of place in many things that are very important to us in Estonia. A lot of things! I come back to the idea of the Estonian state: the preservation of this same Estonian people, language and culture throughout the ages. Let me remind you that the new government brought about the liquidation of the [office] Minister of Population, the elimination of the population problem committee, which should deal with the most important thing: how to increase the number of Estonians. On the other hand, this matter of language and education that we are currently discussing. So a lot of things are out of place. Actually, there's little money everywhere. The budget is 13 billion. At the same time, our debt burden remains the lowest in the European Union, the lowest in all. We're whipping ourselves, talking nice words. I'll finish academic Aaviksoo with such a quote. He has said beautifully: "These beautiful, ontic and politically correct consensual documents, where all important keywords are lined up beautifully, are largely concerned with creating appearances and pleasing to all. " This debate here, as you know, is taking place as a debate on a matter of national importance, but no decision will be taken. New things will come, important things will not be decided. And that's how we shake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U141	I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U142	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Mr President, Vice-Rectors, colleagues, I do not know who everyone is yet, the Chairman of the Committee on Culture and the Committee on Education. Academic painting has such an art form as tablet painting. You've all seen them. I suggest you go to the Kumus and watch. There are great, powerful tablets, the whole wall is full of paintings, with very large, distinctive details, which have been written out in filigraine. And below is the author's [name]. But the real thing is that a whole lot of people have been working on this great painting: the students of this master, the helpers, many of whom have specialized in painting trees, painting water, painting stones, painting mountains. Its last touch, its handwriting has been put there by the master. Why am I giving such an example? I will give this example because we have been talking about education here today. The Estonian people have been, we can say, the faith of education for a few hundred years. Education has given us the opportunity to escape from this rural, difficult life. A squirt between the toes, early in the morning milking a cow, late in the evening from the field work as a ramp tired falling into bed, it's a difficult life. Of course, parents wanted at least a few children to have a city, get an education, get an easier life. This has been the driving force behind why the Estonian people had more than 90% literacy at the end of the 19th century, which at the time was a very, very high and good indicator in Europe. It has been a long time since then and, of course, all the conditions have changed. This is where I get to a different subject. This is the subject on which I asked the rector of the University of Tartu. Indeed, we can and we must do, and we will also be discussing various important national issues in this Chamber. Defense and so on. In all cases, we always have one fundamental conclusion: we do not have enough money to finance this area and to earn it through money in such a way that the needs of the Republic of Estonia are adequately satisfied and covered. It is about health, it is about culture. We've broken lances here over cultural objects how many. What can I do? When you pull the blanket under the chin, the toes are out, when you put your toes under the blanket, the front of the chest is bare. We don't have enough money. Why don't we have enough money? At this point, I must say that the rector's answer, which depends on political decisions, is inadequate. This, of course, also depends on political decisions. But it depends, above all, on whether we have an adequate economic basis, sufficient budgetary resources to meet all our different national needs. Unfortunately, we have to admit that this base is weak for us. Here I get a very, very, very, very, very, very historical memory. Indeed, in the mid-1990s, I was able to read an analysis of that post... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U143	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U144	... which dealt with Russia's potential ambition in its so-called near-foreign, the possibility of restoring a smaller empire. In the context of this analysis, the potential of all the Union republics of their own time to survive and manage in the future was also analysed. I will not, of course, stop even in Latvia. But for Estonia, I was then cut to my heart by a sentence that I say in English, although it is deplorable in this hall: "Estonians are out of business. "The Estonians are, say, out of line. What was the basis for this conclusion? This conclusion was justified by the fact that if Estonia was unable to carry out economic restructuring that would ensure sufficient added value if Estonians were unable to integrate the word "integration" into the large Russian minority there, this is a problem. If Estonians are unable to raise the birth rate at least to the level of reproduction, the analysis was, of course, longer; unfortunately, I do not have time to illuminate it further, then by the second decade of the 21st century, Estonia is in a situation where maintaining the state may prove to be too much of a force. It was an analysis of one of our friendly, leading Western countries, the respective centres there. Now we have reached the beginning of the second decade of the 21st century and we can see that these forecasts have proved to be largely valid. We do not have enough resources to adequately satisfy all our wishes, our dreams, our needs. Here's the question. We can talk here today about the need for more money in education. However, with one previous speaker, I cannot agree in any way that the more educated or educated people, the greater the wealth. I don't want to praise Russia. On the contrary, I have even been called a russophobic. But in Russia, the percentage of high-educated people is higher than we have in Estonia. We would not say that Russia is a much richer country than Estonia. What am I saying? We cannot be in this remote area, in this Chamber or in Estonia as a whole all the time with tunnel vision that we are focusing on higher education today and we do not see what is happening in our culture more widely, what is happening in national defence, what is happening in the internal security that is happening in health care. We need to see the whole thing, like in the case of the big tablet painting. This whole says that we need to do something different in the country as a whole in order to meet our needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U145	Thank you. I ask for the Riigikogu's speech chair Siim Kallas.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U146	Can I have eight minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U147	Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U148	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen here are making exciting speeches that I would like to comment on very much, although this is not exactly about higher education. However, I should say that I suggest, Mart, that you look at a portal such as the RBK, or RosBusinessConsulting, where yesterday or the day before, there were [upper] large diagrams of [this] who have done well in the former Soviet republics, who are not and who are the first to have done best. Unfortunately, it is Estonia. So... But I agree with a hundred percent that the whole question is about the economic base. By the way, we also had the goal 30 years ago that Estonia must catch up with Finland. Today we are exactly twice as weak as Finland, we have $27,000 per person, Finland has $54,000 per person. No wonder there's a lot more to share. But this is a subject that we can definitely discuss afterwards. Nor can I fail to say about Peeter Ernits's story about 2% of the green turn that I have not found it anywhere, even though I have just worked through the material of the Estonian Government on all possible incomes and expenses and everything else. It's not there. But all right. Let's talk about higher education. I'm not gonna smear on anyone's mind that paid education is better than free education. That's what everyone knows. Funding has been discussed quite thoroughly here. Some combination is certainly possible. However, I would like to remind all my fellow Members and say why we have not moved on from this point, why, as has been said here, it remained at one point. But because we are all afraid of the public opinion of society, which is clearly against paid education. We have voters, and we're going out of this hall, and we should really take our own courage together. This combination, too, requires political courage. But still, it wasn't what I wanted to talk about either. First of all, I want to complain about the hard fate of the professors. I think that's a key question. It's an absolute peak. During Stalin's time, Professor of the University of Tartu received 5500 rubles per month, which was at least ten times more than the average [remuneration]. During my study, Professor 450 rubles per month, which was about four times more than average. So we could kind of think. During the last debate on the state budget in 2021, when it was proposed to put 40 million on free transport, I made a small estimate and calculated that, assuming that there are 100 real professors in Estonia with this name is what it is, but in the old days it was a size of 100 and I can't imagine that it would be different, and that they would raise their salary to 10,000, it would cost 12 million a year. A simple calculation shows this. So in the case of money, and also in the case of schools, this differential issue is, like, sometimes out of focus. But that's what stimulates doctoral students when they know that at some point they're going to get paid because of the degree. It's done within the order of the whole thing. But I actually wanted to get to the point that I'm also a professor who gets very little pay. As the salary of the Riigikogu is very good, it is not a very big problem for me. Anyway, I've been reading lectures for years. 50 years ago, when I was studying at the university, the study process was like this: lecture, seminar, reckoning or exam. It has remained the same. But everything is free for my course, isn't it? 50 students enroll. Well, there's no chance of going through, for example, some kind of record. We've been discussing a lot in the Faculty of Economics, so what to do is it doesn't work anymore, and we're wasting a lot of time. Thanks to the coroner, we figured it out, made these video shows, and made the materials that were used in the video. My question is, do I have to go again this year, next year of study, in the spring semester, and start reading lectures again and again? I think that we are wasting a lot of time with this approach to overwhelm the content of the learning process. Then you'll have students sitting there, no one's asking for anything. At one point in the end, in the spring, you will make a calculation and receive it [reply] either in writing or orally. Last time we did, for example, in the form of a conference and went very well. Speaking of the organisation of higher education, I read this excellent material thoroughly. There was a study plan, a curriculum reorganization. I think it's very important too. What Jaak White said here is very striking how these structures within higher education have changed. After all, how do we end up with this high-quality higher education, we get people who have not only a diploma in their pockets, but also a high-education degree? It deserves to be looked at separately. By the way, I'm just saying that I don't demonize English. Remember that the same Estonian people, his elite, mentioned by the previous speaker, Mart Helme, were educated in German and the University of Tartu was German for a hundred years. On December 1, 1919, the University of Tartu had 70% of German lecturers. The level of the University of Tartu was quite high at the time, bearing in mind that one Nobel Prize also came to a researcher at the University of Tartu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U149	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U150	Thank you, good Chairman! And right now, I'm asking you not to give me three more minutes. Right. You're a good learner, who you are up there! Good colleagues here and on the other side of this flickering blue screen and, of course, the people who are watching us over [internet]! We have such a serious and important discussion here. We ourselves [are] speaking, and the more complex theories we do here, the more [the more] it seems to be clearer. I am simply saying that I am the least educated member of our group. "From the guts of the filthy & rotten soul, I enter the life of the lush, the offspring of the working family. " Merle Jääger wrote that way. Listening to all these things, I made this brief summary. We have very much focused on such an appearance. We have an enormous number of priorities. I'm going to be more specific and correct: I thought there were 18 of them last time, but it's 16. So the D.A.'s office is going to give us a new priority every year, now they already have 16 priorities. Maybe it's easier to figure out what's not a priority. When it was said here in the meantime that we have a focus, that such a thought of plumbing, but maybe that would be the solution. We're afraid maybe we are. If this is the year of the Võro language, right, or something there, let's bet on it. And next year. Today is International Anti-Corruption Day. Here it comes to mind that these roofies are all very corrupt activities. However, as far as I've been directing the rooftop money, I've always said it's for one time. It's either doing something or it's not doing anything, but it doesn't tick every year, so, uh, now we've got some more stuff and we're thinking about one more thing, because we've got more money. No, it's gotta give you a new level. If it doesn't ignite you, if it doesn't start you, don't. My friends are as ignorant as I am, but we have a simple thing: if you have nothing to do, don't do it here. Maybe you don't have to work on these things. Remember, we used to have a beeper, and then it was written, and everyone should have a beeper. Well, we've got things figured out in computer technology. Now I listened to a previous speaker who said that nothing has changed in 50 years. But sometimes some things don't have to change, but some things have to. Who can say that? The fact that Estonian is now lost and universities become English. We learned from the numbers that it's not that much, and they're not bringing that money. Why is the current situation that our Estonian-language university is not attractive for Estonian children or adolescents? The world has opened, the world is expanding! Just as others go here in Estonia to prolong their childhood, our children go elsewhere. We're reading it as a good indicator. Well, I don't want to bring such radical ideas that maybe we should build our university somewhere in the neighborhood, somewhere else. Here we can always bring down these ugly buts why it doesn't work out, but maybe in other countries the Estonians have this will many times greater than those buts that they can come up with. I put some notes here [letter]. If a lot of people say they don't know all those strange strange words and terms, then that's what I'm saying. I know that yesterday was a black day for rock music. Gary Thain of Uriah Heep, John Lennon, Dimebag of Darrel Pantera and Hanoi Rocks drummer, all of them dead on December 8. I don't know if it's gonna take anybody forward or not. But that's the area I'm interested in. Listening to all the stories that were here, I don't know. Mikhail Lotman, I did not notice this, but he formulated one thing: The Fatherland supports higher education, not the Higher Education Support Group. Because it's built like this from below, really fast and suddenly, and there's a book like this. The only project I have understood that would be good for the university was that I and Janar Holm brought it out to lift the taps up a little bit. It cost 3,000 euros. I said, have you messed up? He said no, look, we have a water treatment system in Tartu so good that it [water] suffers to drink, but the student's plastic bottle does not fit down. A student should only pay for beer, not water. This is the spirit of the corporations I'd like to see here in these debates, it's worth something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U151	Thank you. Riigikogu speech chair Riina Sikkuti, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U152	Thank you, good Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, we really discussed a crucial national issue, as Rector Asser rightly said. I like to debate in this Chamber, and I came to the remote to contradict some of the previous arguments. Both prepared materials and presentations were very meaningful and indeed opened up the role of higher education and current concerns. At the same time, the speeches focused more on the priority that should be given to what needs to be done here. Is there a paid higher education or a free higher education, how much money to give and how much money can you give? It still sounded like we have a lot of important things: we have family policy and we have internal security and we have security and we have so many things to do. I think that is the one thing that has been holding back the so-called funding for higher education. We consider all things important, but inevitably priorities must be chosen. How do you do that? I think this is finally a value-based decision. For example, if there had been a vote at a demonstration in front of the house this morning, it would certainly have been supported that education must be the highest priority. I'm not sure this is the case throughout society. At the same time, all these stories about the belief of education in people and the desire to become the world's smartest nation, nor did they come about in vain. There's a grain of truth in there. 15 years ago, I somehow remembered when Aarne Vaik made a tour as director of the Marine Museum of Aarne Käsmu and, among other things, said that, well, take a million Germans or take a million Frenchmen, then you will not get any independent country, but you will see that Estonia has managed to do it twice. And why? Well, in the end, we're still getting to education. But it is now being said that it is as if the target has disappeared or what it is after the accession to the European Union and the introduction of the euro. Well, what else do we want? Life's pretty good. Really, maybe it's pretty good. But this great choice is what we have to do in this hall. This has actually been emphasised by both the President-in-Office and the previous President, and the Chancellor of Justice has repeatedly pointed out this. We should look for this great goal and formulate it and be able to abide by this agreement so that there is money behind it. Only the priority is of no use. We see that there are very many good ideas in the development plans, whether at municipal level or at national level, very many right ideas, but for some reason the steps are going in the other direction. There's no way we can say that all things are just as important. We should focus on education. In order to do that, these claims, these principles that would sound in this Chamber, we should still have a much stronger aether than they have done so far. Speaking to me at the demonstration this morning and just looking at the posters' texts because there was talk of free higher education, I remembered a smiling moment. I think it was last week. The quick Google search didn't answer, I hope I'm not wrong. The rain radio was playing, and I think the Prime Minister was asked something to say, come on, free higher education, whether you support it or not, or what should be done. The Prime Minister stated that, however, free higher education has not brought us an increase in the quality of teaching. I was smiling with that logic mistake. Education is free for those who acquire education, we want access to be available so that we do not have any barriers, so that everyone has the right to quality education, so that they can get it if they wish. But that education... I'm asking for three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U153	Yeah, of course you get three extra minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U154	Thank you! ... giving is free, it hasn't been agreed anywhere. The recipient of education is the one for whom it must be easy and without spending money without distinguishing the recipients according to their wealth. But to the educator, it must pay off. Free higher education does not mean that only the sense of mission or volunteering is important. We want to teach the best people. What we really want is for them to be teaching methods or materials, but for everyone to be very good. It doesn't just happen. So [should] avoid being caught in such logic traps, that free things can't be good, or that "free" means that everything should be done very cheaply. No, for education to be available to the recipient, we must all make an effort to provide it financially. But in the same way, in order to improve quality, we must make even more effort to enable the educators to have confidence, a dignified living, and I do not know, also, the brilliance and motivation, the will to make an effort to make Estonia last. So strength for all of us!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U155	Thank you. For strength. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Margit Sutrop.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U156	Thank you to all those who have endured until the end of this very meaningful debate. I would like to say that the Estonian state has never been as rich as it is today. If we can make smart investments in this wealth, then, I think, we will not only be richer but also happier. Indeed, as the previous speaker said, the question is what are our priorities, where we choose to sow this seed, and which seed we cultivate to grow up with. In this sense, I very much liked the speeches made today. I think the rectors sitting on the balcony also got the idea that there is a desire in all political parties to do something to support higher education. This is, after all, the most promising start, which allows us to hope that this agreement between political parties and at one point the political decision to reach such an agreement and model that will ensure a sustainable and certainly high-quality future for higher education in Estonian with its international dimension. I would like to thank all those who contributed to the report by the Higher Education Support Group. This report is available in this Chamber, which is also referred to today on the ERR website as a PDF link. So for all those who want to read it from the Estonian audience, it is available. I believe that the support group will have a number of discussions, parties will certainly be debating these models, so as to see what would be the best and most appropriate model. The President of the Republic has promised to put the joint agreement on the table, just as the previous President contributed to the signing of the scientific agreement. I also thank the participants in the educational agreement, those who think about Estonia as a whole, the association of Estonian students and others who are thinking for a better future of higher education. I will finally read a quote from the Auditor General, whose proverb, I think, is also very important today: "In anticipation of the provision of items bearing the "free" label, there is also reason to recall, in the example of free higher education, that once you have planted the plant, it must be watered as necessary. If you water too little, the plant will dry. If you water too much, the plant will rot. But if too many plants are in one pot, they will all be shrivelled, for there will be no light or food in the soil for all. The question of whether our wallet allows all the plants planted to be watered and how many in one pot to avoid stunting should always be in sight." How's it going? The worst option is if it remains to be discussed and not decided. Any decision is better now than not making a decision. As we know about Estonian film classics, standing still is a step backwards. I wish all of us the courage and will to go ahead and make decisions that really will not only save Estonian higher education, but also the future of Estonia, which I myself deeply believe in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-09_U157	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. Good fellows! First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Culture, who brought this very important national issue into this Chamber of plenary sessions, its chairman and its members. I would like to thank today's waitresses, Chairman of the Committee on Culture Aadu Must, Minister of Education and Science Liina Kersna, Professor, Rector of the University of Tartu Toomas Asser. I thank the Chairman of the Higher Education Support Group of the Riigikogu, Margit Sutrop, and I thank all the members of the Riigikogu who asked who replied who expressed their views in the round of negotiations. Thank you very much, Rectors, for being here with us during this debate, and thank you to your fellow Members. This debate is closed. Good fellows! The first item on Thursday is closed. We are not going to the second item, because it is not there. The sitting is adjourned. So good luck to you!
