ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Let's start the September 29th briefing. In order to start the briefing, we're conducting a presence check. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U2	We will begin Question Time with 17 members of the Riigikogu. But as we can see, the members of the Riigikogu are already being joined quite nicely. Today's Question Time is attended by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, Minister of Education and Science Liina Kersna and Minister of Health and Labour Tanel Kiik. Welcome! Today's procedure provides that we have eight questions and that we will allow an additional question from the floor. Let's go!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U3	First, Jaak Juske asks Prime Minister Kaja Kallas about teachers' salaries. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U4	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Prime Minister! I am still concerned about the very low salaries of teachers. As a country, we have made a promise to teachers that their average salary should be 120% compared to the national average. It's a promise made by the state. We reached 112% last year, although this target should have been met already last year. The previous government froze the teachers' salaries. The government you run found a 3% pay increase for the new year, but it was supposed to be at the expense of children's education of interest. Now, after a lot of work, you found another 2%, or 5%. At the same time, our country's average wage is failing at a very rapid pace, and with this 5% wage increase, the average wage of teachers in the new year is below the average wage of the country. Of this 120%, we'll be light-years away next year. If you add very high inflation to it, then in fact, teachers will get worse next year, our teachers will be impoverished. Prime Minister, why are you not fulfilling your promise to the teachers? Please state the specific date on which the teachers' average salary will be 120% compared to the national average. When?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U5	Thank you. Member of the Riigikogu, I must first say that your data has become obsolete. Everything about the previous country's budgetary strategy is really true. The previous government froze the salaries of teachers, and there was nothing in the country's budget strategy for wage increases; there was a round zero written over four years. You are also correct in relation to the negotiations on the country's budgetary strategy in the spring, where we really made an effort to ensure that this percentage of wage increases is not zero, but at least three. As you yourself pointed out, that is not enough. Now, in the course of the state budget negotiations, we were looking for additional resources and we were able to generally write in that 5% at least this salary is rising, but since the Ministry of Education and Research found additional money in the process of restructuring, the good news is that the teachers' salary next year will increase by 7.3%, which is actually in the same order of magnitude as the other salaries are rising. And the good news is that the teachers' average wage will rise to 1653 euros. This increase is 113 euros. And when we talk about the minimum wage, it goes up to 1412 euros. This wage growth is indeed planned and efforts have been made to reward teachers. Of course, there is a desire for this salary to be even higher. And fortunately, local authorities are getting more than 100 million in the new budget, and I know that many local authorities are going to pay extra salaries to teachers working in their local government so that their pay goes up even further. I'm sure that's our common concern.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U6	Jaak Juske, please, specify the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U7	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister Kaja Kallas! You didn't answer my question. I asked when the state would fulfil its promise to teachers that the average wage of teachers would be 120% compared to the national average. Certainly a 7% raise is better than a 5% increase. But I would remind you that just recently, the Minister of Education met with the Alliance of Educational Workers. Teachers are not happy with this low wage increase, teachers are planning a strike. But I'm asking you this: the 2% that the Ministry of Education has to find in addition to the 5% that the money comes from exactly?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U8	Thank you. First of all, I will adjust again: this salary will rise by 7.3%, or more than 7%. And as far as we know, teachers don't plan to strike on this percentage. It has indeed been an effort, as I said. This raise was never planned before. And when we look at the increase in the salaries of teachers over the years, it cannot be said that the years have been brothers, and every government coalition has made an effort to do so. However, this has not always been the case. And I am very sorry that you do not have a question today for the Minister for Education and Research, who will be able to explain in more detail all these things. Now, you're asking me what this raise is gonna cost. What matters to us is that we invest in people. Perhaps, if you look at years ago, there is a great deal of investment in buildings, concrete, and, on the one hand, it is right because also the living environment, also the working environment, is important for teachers and students to be able to study in modern schools. But it seems to us that this balance has perhaps gone more in the favor of buildings, even though it could be in the favor of people. So, indeed, the Ministry of Education and Research is planning to postpone or cancel certain investments in so-called concrete, houses, and channel this money into investing in people, or teachers.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U9	And now the matter registered on the spot. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U10	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Good Prime Minister! Well, it's gonna be awfully easy for you to lie to me, but keep it going, it's gonna be good for all the other parties. This four-year zero, which you were talking about here, is that the teachers' salaries [in the background] were in the previous government's RES budget, that's fiction. It's your own imaginary myth. I know how much you like living in your own fictional world, but I still say, for the sake of the verbatim, that already at the time it was repeated to everyone that it was a one-year pay freeze in all areas during the corona crisis. And if I remember correctly, the opposition at the time demanded cuts, not freezing. But I have a wider question about the budget. You should be presenting it to us today. When your government came to power, both you and your finance minister, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, went around and talked about how the previous government has left a billion-dollar hole in the budget and there is no discipline, the finances are out of order. We haven't seen your budget yet, it hasn't arrived here, but from the news, I understand you've created a $600 million budget hole. The only difference between me and Keit Pentus-Rosimine is that I did this budget when we had a recession, and your budget gap is when there is a 10% growth. How are you doing with that discipline like it is?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U11	Thank you. After all, the fact is that the national budget strategy, which is set for four years, was intended to raise teachers' salaries by 0%. That's exactly the kind of lines that run there. There's nothing to figure out, there's something to do with the paper, that's exactly how it says it. I don't know what world you're living in, maybe in your dreams you saw it before [the rise], but in any case you didn't write it down. Perhaps you were hindered by your coalition partners, I cannot tell you that, but in any case, the country's budgetary strategy did not have this wage growth. So it's true. Now, as far as the state budget as a whole is concerned, you yourself have also admitted that you wrote over a billion empty cuts in the state budget strategy. They were not furnished with anything, but they were completely empty: it was written that you were going to stick together, but from which it was not. In this respect, it is also true that you have confirmed in your interviews that this has been the case. There's no argument between you and us either. But in the new state budget, we are really trying to get our daily spending under control. We will reduce the budget deficit by 300 million. In fact, the situation is getting much better in this regard. Yes, we cannot completely close the budget deficit because this hole has been very, very deep. However, such steps are being taken and, with the budgetary strategy of the country for the coming years, we also want to make this situation better, so that the costs of the state really do not exceed the revenue of the state so that we cannot sustain the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U12	I will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U13	The next topic is Helle-Moonika Helme's question to Prime Minister Kaja Kallas about the foreign policy of the government. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U14	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister Kaja Kallas! Your Government's Foreign Minister, Eva-Maria Liimets, has issued very controversial signals on the issue of Afghanistan and Belarus. He has said that he believes that the Taliban is already chopping people's limbs off and hanging people on a crane and shooting a pregnant female police officer in public, that the Taliban is capable of repenting and that the Taliban can find a common ground. Are such statements a common position of the Government of the Republic of Estonia, or is it a solo of your foreign minister? If so, as your head of government, do you approve of such statements or do you have a different view? Also, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has not been known to present a positive foreign policy and positions towards the Taliban to Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs. And certainly the Committee on Foreign Affairs would not have given any approval to such action either. Who has given him the authority to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U15	Thank you, dear Moonika Helme. Firstly, I am very pleased that you have become interested in foreign policy. I've never seen you care before. But very good! Secondly, it is true that some may believe that the Taliban will change, as some in Estonia believe that the EKRE will change. I don't think so. I don't believe either. Now, if you look at the statements made by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, he has not really said anything like you said: it is as if he believes that they will change. No, we don't see any sign of it. Everything you listed yourself, and what the Taliban intends to go on with, is a gross violation of human rights, and no one can or will actually support it anywhere. When I reviewed exactly what Eva-Maria Liimets said, it was that the Taliban would change and he believed that there would be a different [act] or that the Taliban would be considered legitimate, he has not said. We are based on our general foreign policy, we are communicating with our allies and colleagues, and that is exactly what we are pursuing in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U16	Helle-Moonika Helme, please specify the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U17	Prime Minister! You managed to get personal again. But I say in general, however, that a member of the parliament of the Republic of Estonia must be absolutely familiar with all the topics, must be able to learn and be familiar with absolutely all the topics. Not the way you do it, you're basically the Prime Minister, but you don't know anything about anything. It's such a personal response to a very personal appeal from you. My next question concerns foreign policy and Eva-Maria Liimetsa. Eva-Maria Liimets has also met with Vladimir Makei, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Belarusian regime. The European Union does not recognise the Lukashenko Government and has imposed sanctions on Belarus. The explanation of the Minister for Foreign Affairs is a bit strange: he must also meet the foreign ministers of countries with which relations are intense. Maybe she should. But he cannot have any meetings, especially with the representatives of countries with which relations are tense, particularly on issues of human rights and value, without having a very strong mandate and justification from the government and Parliament, both nationally-communicated and explained to our European Union and other allies. I had a question about that, too, and you didn't really answer. I actually asked whether he had a mandate, whether he had consulted anyone on Afghanistan and whether he had a government mandate and also yours to say what he said. And on this, too, I have a question: had the Minister for Foreign Affairs received any powers for this meeting with Vladimir Makei, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Belarusian regime? [If yes] from whom and when?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U18	Thank you. Firstly, I said that I am glad that you are interested in foreign policy. I don't see how this is a personal attack. Really, I'm happy for that. If it offended you in any way, I'm sorry, because I really didn't mean it. Secondly, there are indeed major events such as meetings at the UN or NATO meetings, meetings of the European Union, on the verge of which meetings with representatives of different countries are also taking place. There is no need for any mandate for the communication that foreign ministers do on a daily basis. The Minister of Foreign Affairs did not go to ask for anything; he went with exactly the message that Estonia has always been sending. This is above all the fact that Belarus must stop violating human rights, bullying of the opposition, precisely all those [positions] that have also been presented in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and which have, as far as I know, been supported by the majority of the Riigikogu. The Foreign Minister's job is to communicate with his colleagues on a daily basis. Now, no separate activities have taken place for the Taliban either. As the Minister of Foreign Affairs said, there is no sign of any improvement in Afghanistan. And that is exactly the case, nothing has changed in this respect.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U19	Signed up, Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U20	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Kaja Kallas! Well, I don't see any positive signs for this Taliban, but somehow our government is sending money to them. I think $50,000 was the amount we sent. Well, that's money to support the Taliban. If we don't see any signs of change, that's interesting! Do you really think the mullahs gave that money to the women and children there? I don't think so for some reason. And as far as Belarus is concerned, how is it in our interest to meet the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the non-recognised regime? It can't be like that. Somehow we have the very clear impression that you simply do not understand or control what is happening in your government. But I actually have another question about foreign policy. Has the government discussed what the consequences could be for the Republic of Estonia, for allied relations, for our foreign policy, for our security policy? Is it possible that our main ally, the United States, has begun a dialogue with Russia on the use of Russian military bases in Central Asia to be a warning signal to us? Does the government have more information about this? If so, what are the government's conclusions from this process?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U21	Thank you. It is known that, in fact, Afghanistan is trying to prevent a humanitarian disaster, and humanitarian aid is also foreseen for it. It has always been the case that democratic countries are trying to help those who are in trouble. This does not mean that this money is somehow going to the Afghan Government. It still goes on humanitarian missions to help people. And I believe you agree that the situation in Afghanistan, be it human rights, women's rights, is very difficult. And when the Afghan economy is collapsing, people will definitely need help there. We are part of the humanitarian delegations that are there. As far as the American allies are concerned, of course, we are closely associated with America. America is also our biggest ally in NATO. We have no reason to doubt good ally relations with America; we also have no reason to doubt NATO. What the administration of the United States is discussing with Russia, for example, is what they are informing us of what direction they are. So far, the United States has also listened very clearly to what the Baltic States are saying. For example, when American President Joe Biden went to meet with Russian President Vladimir Putin, before that he met with representatives of the Baltic States precisely to negotiate these messages and to show what is more important, who comes first. And the fact that these countries are communicating with each other cannot be ruled out in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U22	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U23	Let us move on to the third question put by Priit Sibul to Prime Minister Kaja Kallas on the corona crisis. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U24	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good lord! For the third week in a row, unfortunately, we need to talk to you on the same subject. At the same time as our northern neighbours report a day-to-day release and release in their countries, we have to deal with the third wave coming out of the flood or falling under it. If you're in a war and you're losing it, I think you need to get on the front, but right now it feels like the government has just given up and there's chaos. I think we need to defend ourselves. You have chosen to protect the Tanel Swing instead of protecting society, but the Tanel Swing doesn't need to be protected, Tanel can handle it. There is a crisis in society, and we have to deal with it. The numbers, as I said, are growing, and all the numbers are growing, luckily, a little bit of the vaccination numbers. I'll be right back to that. But worrying and, of course, most concerned is the increase in the number of people in the hospital and the increase in the number of people infected in the last two days. In vaccination we are the seventh on the back, with only Bulgaria, Romania, Slovakia, Latvia, Poland and Croatia behind us. We have reached 66.76% of the adult population. I wanted to ask you that our top vaccination was at week 24 when more than 70,000 people were vaccinated per week. After that, the cold store was a cluster hack, and that's the level we haven't achieved since then. Is there really any connection, and does the government have any plan on how to overcome the virus, like the Nordic countries, so that we can talk to you after a week without sessions about releasing society from restrictions?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U25	Thank you. Yes, the corona crisis is still present and it needs to be dealt with on different fronts, just as you say. One side is increasing vaccination and the other side is preventing a serious illness that is linked. We know that vaccinees are four times less likely to go to hospital or home to have this disease seriously or worse, to die as a result of this disease. Yeah, our highlight was when we got 70,000 people vaccinated a week. This was due to the fact that there was a very good correlation between the situation and the number of vaccines and the number of people who wanted to be vaccinated. Now we have people left who are either completely anti-vaccination or hesitating. We have about 13% of the Estonian-speaking population, and more than 30% or about 30% of the foreign-speaking population. And they have to be dealt with mostly on a case-by-case basis. What are the main objections people bring to vaccination? Two things. The first is that people are scared of side effects, and the second is that the vaccines are still not fully protected. What do we do with it? There are now briefings in Estonian and Russian on the side effects in which health care professionals, the people of the Agency, the people of the Health Board answer people's questions and concerns about vaccination related to their side effects. [We want to] take down these fears and [explain] what there is more reason to fear. In addition, we also have information material on what these risks are and, in fact, information material that disproves myths that spread among those who still hesitate. All of this is to increase the level of vaccination, and it is precisely because, as you say, it helps to prevent serious illness.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U26	Priit Onion, please, a more specific question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U27	Thank you. My question was whether the government has a new plan for this new situation and what new objectives are. The deadlines you had, and the government that you have set by your own government, have run straight from under the bar under the leadership of the Tanel Swing, and the problems have not been the case. Couple of nuances. You have been opposed to wager campaigns in society or to create something between people. Several countries have used it. They're all ahead of our vaccination level. You have said that nothing like this is happening in Estonia. However, there was a campaign to lure young people into vaccination, for which the Agency has said that this was absolutely contrary to our rights and our reasonable understanding. But, of course, no one is being punished, and the Agency sees no reason for this, no problem is that phone discharges were violated in order to lure young people into vaccination. I don't know if you'd give me your humble comment on that. And in the last few days, communication has come up with an idea that we are now infected in the hospital, [but patients with other diseases], and then there are also symptomatic people in hospital with COVID-19. The latter number is, of course, lower than the number of people in hospital care in general. What's the mess for? Both people sitting next to you have always talked about the clarity of communication and the need for it to be unambiguous, etc. And more and more in different weeks, we have different keywords for communication. What for?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U28	Thank you. Quite a few questions, I'm trying to answer. First of all, what I have said is that the state is not going to offer anything more than free vaccines to people. Let me remind you, for example, that a person must pay for the flu vaccine himself. The COVID vaccine is provided free of charge by the country. This means that we do not offer any more snacks or anything else as a country. This is what we do as a country. Now what you referred to in the private sector is very interested in the fact that shops can be open, restaurants can be open, cinemas and theaters can be open, and they have made further campaigns and offered different souvenirs for people to vaccinate. These are private sector campaigns. The Estonian state has offered nothing to anyone in the campaign process. You can't confuse these things. Now the second question concerning the symptomatic COVID patients in hospitals. Here in the Riigikogu, too, I have been under great criticism from your group that we are holding back some information and we are not publishing everything. We've made all the information public, and it's actually getting more and more accurate. Why it comes out separately is precisely because we have people who get hospitalized for some other reason, they have a COVID test, and this test can be positive, although they do not have COVID, they have no symptoms, they are routinely subjected to this test. The same applies to hospital care hospitals, where we have had outbreaks, where all people are tested and people who have given a positive test are also revealed, but they are not sick. So infected and ill are different numbers. To understand the difference between how many people we have in the hospital because of COVID and how many people there are in the hospital who also have COVID, the difference is made. And this is just additional information, which the members of the Riigikogu also receive.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U29	And now he's asking for Helir-Valdor Seeder. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U30	Thank you. Prime Minister! As evidence of the implementation of the so-called 'coronapass', its use for this purpose and its promotion for this purpose, we have spoken to you and expressed our disagreement. With regard to your policy as Prime Minister and the whole government, I am extremely critical of this issue and I believe that it is a false creation of security and an unjustified reduction of the sense of danger in society. Some people, who are also infectious, walk around freely and thus pose a greater threat to society. They can go to public events and infect people. In this context, unvaccinated people are, in a sense, even safer, because they need to take a preliminary test to participate in public events and be checked that they do not pass on the infection. I don't understand that. This is totally unacceptable to common sense. And on this basis, people are also divided into different categories and their rights are very different. It is precisely the use of this evidence as evidence of infection safety that I cannot understand deeply, the implementation of this corona passport, knowing that these people may be carriers of the infection. But there will be no breakthrough in this regard. You're so rock-proof that it's very reasonable. We've been over this. My question, however, concerns incomprehensible restrictions. For example, if a member of the family is ill with corona, his/her spouse, once vaccinated, can move freely without restrictions, but for example, a school child must remain in distance education. This is how it has been implemented. Please explain why this is the case. Why do we apply these restrictions in this form?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U31	Thank you. Health safety first. Health safety does not mean that no one is dangerous to health, just as road safety does not mean that there are no people on our streets who are dangerous to others in traffic. There's no way to avoid that. Or safety at work does not mean that jobs are completely safe to the end. Similarly, health certification by means of verification of these certificates is, of course, not absolute. I never said that. What you're saying is that a person who's been vaccinated can carry this disease, it's dangerous for those who haven't been vaccinated, but he's done a test. Think through that sentence and think about why they're dangerous to those who haven't been vaccinated! Not because they can carry this disease, but because some people have not been vaccinated and may become seriously ill. The solution is not that all people who have been vaccinated must also be tested, but rather that those who have not been vaccinated should also be vaccinated and thereby actually protected. That's the main focus.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U32	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U33	Let us move on to the fourth question, which is the question of health insurance for Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U34	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Margit Sutrop, a member of your party's Riigikogu Group, published an article in which he proposed that people who have not voluntarily allowed themselves to be injected with a coronal vaccine should be repressed in order to limit their treatment with health insurance. This is obviously a proposal contrary to the Constitution from the perspective of equal treatment, but it is also a more fundamental political issue. It clearly expresses a waiver from the principles of solidarity insurance. If we say that people who do not vaccinate themselves can no longer be treated with health insurance or are somewhere behind, then we might as well have to say that smokers or people who do not do sports must be treated differently. It is simply an unfeasible but very eloquent proposal. Eerik-Niles Kross, a member of your party's political group, presented in an election campaign a [material] proposal to punish people who have not made a vaccine in criminal proceedings. It's even crisper. So, broadly, a third of society is declared to be culacs, for whom it is justified to send to Siberia. That's exactly how we fought people who didn't want to go to the collective. Tell me, are the fascist ideas you have given down in your party as a guide to the leader of the party and there is such a clear ideological plan, or do you still have so much in the party after liberalism that just everyone does what they want, and you do not know much about it or do not have much of it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U35	First of all, I would like to confirm that the existence of health insurance gives everyone the opportunity to receive healthcare. But I'm gonna ask you back. Elvis Brauer, the leader of your party, who is running for election as your first number, calls for the attack on the health care professionals who are injecting the vaccine and has even attacked the health care professionals. Is that an official position of the EKRE? Do you, as the chairman of the party, approve of this? I think that is also a very big problem. I call upon you, Martin Helme, as the chairman of the EKRE party. I know you believe in vaccination, you've been vaccinated yourself, your family's been vaccinated. If you turned to your supporters and said that vaccination would help out of this situation, that vaccination would guarantee freedom for society, that openness, I believe that we would be in a much better position. But since you're trying to be both for and against, where you've been quite successful, it's confusing. These are your calls or your views, which are from one extreme to another extreme, very much. It would be very helpful if the parties were united here, including you, and would call on your people not to attack health professionals and vaccinate their people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U36	Martin Helme, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U37	Prime Minister! You guys are really messed up about what Question Time is all about. In Question Time, Riigikogu ambassadors ask ministers and ministers respond. It does not go so far that ministers come to the Riigikogu ambassadors to ask questions in the Question Time format. As an employer of the government, we are asking you to report here. And you have lost it too, which is our party's position on vaccination. We are in favour of freedom, or coercive vaccination. We want people to be able to make this decision prudently and ourselves in consultation with their family physician. Whoever doesn't, doesn't do, and whoever does, does. We don't think we all have to go out here together and twist a man's hand. At the moment when politicians agree on all matters, there is a conspiracy against the public. But I'm still gonna ask you over. Margit Sutrop is a member of the Riigikogu, Eerik-Niles Kross is a member of the Riigikogu, candidates also in local elections. They have a responsibility other than one person among our 1375 candidates in the local elections. Does the ideology of liberal fascism mean that people must be punished and repressed if they do not do as the government commands, with the government ordering violations of the law, and may even begin to repress people and disapprove of society and persecution of people? Is that the position of the party that you approve as chairman of your party? I specifically ask you about Sutrop's proposal, about Eerik-Niles Kross' proposal to punish people either on the basis of a criminal paraphrase, as Kross suggests, or with the loss of health insurance, as Sutrop suggests. And if you think about it for a moment, it's not a pity for me if [these] members of the Riigikogu open their mouths. Every time they open their mouths, you'll have fewer voters. But I would like to know your party's position and the position of the party's chairman.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U38	Thank you. First of all, we don't have a forced vaccination, we have a voluntary vaccination. Everyone can choose whether to vaccinate themselves or not to vaccinate themselves. But what we know is that the more people we can protect with vaccination, the better the way they don't get into the hospital with a serious disease. This is good for Estonian society. It is exactly the same in other countries. And my position is very clear: we have no repression; we have no forced vaccination. We have control measures. Everyone can go anywhere. It is simply necessary to prove that they are either vaccinated or tested negative. But no one has been deprived of any rights, that certainly cannot be done. Now, if you'll just finish reading these articles. In fact, this problem, which has been highlighted by Margit Sutrop, is also something that must be borne in mind. In fact, for every patient in COVID who goes to the hospital, a double team of nurses is needed. We don't have sisters waiting in reserve, these people have to be taken off other services. This means that if these are anesthesiology nurses who help people with breathing aids, some surgical operations will be canceled and the people who need them will actually suffer. His point in this article was that we are now prioritising people who get hospitalized with COVID, even though they had a chance to protect themselves with the vaccine. We prioritize them and therefore some grandmother with aching hip stays on hold for longer or some other surgery is delayed. And they can ask the exact same question. Most people who have behaved responsibly, who have defended themselves, so that they do not get sick and get into hospital with [COVID], but do not get help on other matters, because hospitals are full of'they also have a question whose rights are then violated.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U39	And the question was registered on the spot by Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U40	Thank you. Dear Kaja Kallas! I'm coming back to this Margit Sutrop proposal that he proposed to push non-vaccine people back in line for treatment. So let's say, with this division of patients, distribution of people would be valuable and less valuable. But I have a simple question. On September 23rd, I received a message. One mother of seven children, Carmen, who is now six months pregnant, had bleeding in places typical of women, and Viljandi Hospital refused to help her without testing. I don't know why he didn't take the test, but the result was that they were told to leave the hospital, even though this woman Carmen was crying and screaming in pain. And they rode with their husband to Tartu to get help from there. My question is to you, who will take responsibility for this case if there are any fatal consequences: as Viljandi Hospital or as your Prime Minister personally?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U41	Thank you. If there is a specific case like this, this person can certainly appeal to the law enforcement authorities to defend his or her rights. I can't comment on any of the rumours you're saying about someone else here. It's not my jurisdiction. I also say that attacking health professionals by your party is, in my opinion, exceptionally inappropriate. Health workers have been under a great deal of pressure for two years. For two years they have fought at the front line with this disease, with the consequences of this disease, and now attack them because they are fulfilling their obligations, I think it is extremely irresponsible, and I think it will come back. And I would actually quote here the words of the previous chairman of your party. He very strongly warned, said that at first we would warn, at first we would try to speak nicely, but anyone who did not want to listen must feel it. We do not hesitate to use force; we use coercive methods when it comes to people who clearly ignore their responsibilities and abuse their rights. "Man is as big a pig as he's allowed to be. " It's Mart Helme. Or the other one: "The tighter we all stick to these restrictions, the shorter the duration of all this crap. That's for sure now. " Golden words, Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U42	Prime Minister! I would point out that the questioner went out of the hall. It's hard to answer the questioner when there's no questioner.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U43	But let us move on to the next question, which is the question of Heiki Hepner, the Minister of Education and Science, Liina Kersnale, about organising teaching under the conditions of the health crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U44	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, Indeed, the corona crisis has created very difficult conditions for schools to organise their studies. I understand that, of course, we are trying to keep schools open and minimally take them to distance learning, but at the moment, the current chosen solution, viewed by the schools, is, in some ways, left alone, still confusing enough for both schools and parents. This will also increase the workload of schools. In many ways, the lack of compatibility between educational databases and health databases hinders mobile work. In school, for the model to work, a lot of data has to be manually linked. The school knows the learning data, the medical service providers' medical records, but unfortunately they must be assembled manually. This is certainly not appropriate for Estonia as an e-governance in itself. And the truth is, if you test one class as a whole, it still takes a very considerable amount of money at a large school. [Not enough] the money that has actually been allocated. Now it has also been done to extend testing to those under 12 years of age. For example, in 19 days, a large school in Raplamaa has already spent 40% of its funding. Retorically, it has been said that this [deficit] should be covered by school holders. My question: do you intend to work with the Data Protection Inspectorate to make it more convenient to reconcile these data, and have you also discussed the allocation of possible additional resources to schoolkeepers?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U45	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, for putting up a very important subject. Really, schools are in a special situation, doing things they didn't have to do before. We are all in a new situation, and I understand that this has meant extra work for schools, new work, and it has also caused confusion, because no one in Estonia has previously carried out school work on the basis of such rules, as we have now agreed. What is our goal? Our goal, as you rightly said, is that as many children as possible can go to contact training as much as possible so that we do not send healthy children to distance in close contact. And that's what we've mostly been able to accomplish. If you ask for cooperation with the Data Protection Inspectorate, then really, it has been a problem that the Health Board sends the school notice that there is an infected person in a particular class who, this school doesn't know, and then the school has to define close contacts. That's when as many people as possible go in close contact, because it's impossible to define who's in close contact because they don't really know who the sick person is. In most schools, parents report to the school that their children have obtained a positive test result, and then it is easier to identify close contacts. We have agreed in the government that at the end of September the Health Board will conduct an analysis of how the current system has worked. We're going to review this system to make it as simple and efficient as possible. There is certainly one bottleneck on data protection issues that we should resolve. And your second question. There is no child left untested because there are no tools. If there is a lack of tests, you could now contact the Ministry of Education and Research. And if, for example, we change the test procedure on the proposal of the Health Board, we're going to look at the funding anyway. For example, if we switch to two rapid tests, of course it will also require more resources. We have promised that the state will compensate for the testing of schoolteachers.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U46	Heiki Hepner, please, a more specific question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U47	Thank you very much. There was actually a certain hope in this answer, let's say, for a better organisation of the school. Indeed, if there is a school with 800 to 900 students, you will need to search blindly for the class who are ill, and this is probably not appropriate. In fact, it would also be possible to send this information from the Health Board to the school representative, encrypted. Surely such a prayer and desire is that it should be done. But my continuing question will be a little broader. Have you also analyzed that if the student is now declared close to the student and it is not a city school, but a country school, how should this student be sent home now? This can also happen during studies. This information comes to school, it's going to be searched, and should this student stay there for a long time? The same question is actually the case when a rapid test finds that someone is infected. Have you ever thought about how to arrange transportation in rural schools? Do you have any suggestions for that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U48	Thank you for your question. First of all, we don't automatically send close contacts home, close contacts are tested, they don't have to go home automatically. And today's test results show that clearly less than 5% of close contacts in the school environment have given a positive test result. In most cases, there have been 3% and a little more, but clearly less than 5%. And only those who give a positive test should go home. And those children who have given a positive test result, as for any sick child, must come and get the child if he or she cannot go home. Perhaps you should also discuss more specifically with school nurses about how to behave in such cases, but the general principle is that close contacts do not have to go home, healthy children do not have to go home, they are retested and if there is a positive test result, the child stays at home.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U49	Henn Põllamas, please, an additional question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U50	Thank you. Minister, I'm sure you saw yourself coming here today that we have dozens and dozens of rescuers on the field demanding an average salary. These are people who risk their lives every day, and this is not a big requirement. The government has promised them something to scramble, but given the increase in electricity prices and the resulting increase in prices, it is certainly much higher than this increase in wages and it does not make it any better. All the more so since the government has so far refused the price of electricity below the latter. And as far as you are concerned now, we know that in the new budget cuts will be brutally introduced into recreational education. What about the teachers? At the beginning of Question Time, the Prime Minister promised very grandly that teachers' salaries would rise. I'm wondering if it's gonna rise, how much it's gonna rise, when it's gonna rise. Is this exactly the same little cosmetic raise that the saviors get? Is it still any use and benefits in the face of this huge increase in electricity prices? And I'm also interested in what happens to our education of interest. It seems to me that your government is extremely hostile to this for some reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U51	Thank you for your question. First, the wages of the rescuers will rise by 12%. What I can tell you about the rise in teachers' salaries is that the minimum wage for teachers will rise by 7.3%: EUR 1412. Added EUR 97, which means that, together with the amount of differentiation, the average salary of teachers next year will be equal to the average wage of the country. In total, we are investing more than 30 million euros in teachers' salaries compared to last year. This is a significant amount, given that last year's coalition decided not to raise teachers' salaries and before that, teachers' salaries were raised within a so-called single wallet, reducing the percentage of differentiation and then increasing the minimum wage. As far as recreational education is concerned, the country targeted more than EUR 3 million in recreational education. Local authorities will receive €10.25 million next year from the state to provide additional support for recreational education in order to make it more accessible in rural areas and to provide more support for socially disadvantaged children and young people. Local authorities have indeed been very exemplary and have made a significant contribution to recreational education: more than EUR 100 million have been invested in recreational education by local authorities. So actually, the part of the country in this is a small part of it, but I understand that it is important, it helps to improve accessibility. But next year the income base of local governments will grow very rapidly: 120 million euros will be higher next year than the budgets of local governments. I believe that these local authorities, which especially prioritise recreational education, can also channel money there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U52	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U53	Let us move on to the sixth question put by Mart Helme to Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. The subject is discrimination against minorities in the Republic of Estonia. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U54	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madame Kallas! Your victory to quote my old sayings was comic. But I say back to you that I have learned from life and, in the last two years, have seen developments in this pandemic, both us and elsewhere, the results of vaccination, both us and elsewhere. And today, I'm very much different from my own day. And you can, of course, look for other quotes, I've also said, for example, that we were stupid in our time. We were fools, and we thought the disease was far worse, more contagious and more lethal than it really was. After all, statistics confirm that we do not have mass deaths in the Corona. We have people dying from cardiovascular diseases, cancer and other common diseases. If you treat these diseases less under the pandemic label and push them into the background, you will actually kill more people than your corona passports and other means. But since the focus of my question was that we have become a minority in Estonia today, I come to the point that you have repeatedly confirmed that there can be no forced vaccination in the Republic of Estonia and cannot be repressed by anyone who does not agree to carry out vaccination. Unfortunately, however, we see that we already have people fired in the armed forces and in the field of internal security for the same reason. How do you comment on that? Again, I refer to your earlier statements.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U55	Thank you. First of all, I want to stress that we have 1,300 people dead because of the corona. And these numbers would be repeated if there were no restrictions if there were no control measures. That's the situation. And when I listen to you, it seems to me that you are supporting it by pointing out that we also have cancer patients, people with other diseases. From the point of view, it seems to me that you are just supporting the fact that curing patients with corona should not be a priority. Then perhaps you will support Margit Sutrop's proposal precisely because there are other diseases. Unfortunately, we have a limited amount of resources, and sisters who have to deal with the corona patients can't handle anything else, can't perform surgical operations, and so on. It all means that these other people are actually suffering. However, as I have already said many times, in Estonia, health care services are guaranteed to all insured persons and there is no change in this regard. Now, with regard to vaccination in the Defence Forces and the Police and Border Guard Board, more than 80% of people have been vaccinated at the Police and Border Guard Board. No one is known to have resigned due to vaccination or non-vaccination or to have been released. There's no such information. More than 90% of people have been vaccinated in the Defence Forces. Once again, such reproaches, at least on my desk, have not reached the point that people have been released because, for some reason, they do not vaccinate and put themselves, but others, in particular, at risk.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U56	Please, Mart Helme, a clarification question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U57	Thank you. I don't know anything about your emotional life, you might feel all kinds of things. But we know that about 10,000 people die a year from cardiovascular disease. A year! If you're saying here that 1,300 people have died of corona, we all know very well that most of them have had corona, but have died of another disease. So your emotional life may be very colorful and interesting, but your feelings are deceiving you. This example by Kalle Grünthal of a multiple mother who, with her pregnancy problems, went to a doctor and did not receive medical care is a clear assurance that we are discriminated against. And this is a clear confirmation that doctors in some cases do not comply with the Hippocrates oath, and this is a very serious problem. If you have not been informed that the people of the Defence Forces and the police are leaving the force due to non-vaccination, then you will have poor information again. I know people post it on social media, I've seen a lot of these posts where they say it was my last day or some other date is their last day in the Defence Forces. My question now is a little different. Do you realize how demoralizing this is about forcing people to leave office in the field of internal and external security for our country's defence capacity, our country's independent ability to cope? It seems to me that I also have, you see, emotional life, I feel that your feelings about this are inadequate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U58	Thank you. You are now referring to this case described by Kalle Grünthal. If there is such a case, these situations will be monitored by the Health Board. A complaint must be addressed there and [make sure] whether the healthcare provider has actually left someone unaided. It can be handled. If this appeal has not been made, if no official action has been taken on this matter, then you are simply tagging the rumor and, as a member of the Riigikogu, I do not think such things should be done. If this is a real case with regard to human health data, then it must also be dealt with delicately. Now for the second thing. You say that there are many posts on social media where people report that this is their last day in a job. People change jobs. There is, for example, an interesting study on this, although it has been done elsewhere in the world, in France, as far as I know, how the exchange of people's jobs has changed. While people who were born in 1948, about your age, have worked an average of 2.7 jobs in their lives, younger people have on average worked more than 11 jobs by the age of 40. Jobs are being exchanged, and people reporting on this social media, I think, is also the subject of today. As far as the Defence Forces and the Police and Border Guard Board are concerned, all employers have been obliged since 1999 to carry out a risk analysis which is a threat to workers in this working environment and which is a threat to customers. We have introduced an additional regulation on biological hazards, according to which health risks in the form of infectious diseases can also be taken into account. Each employer can carry out this risk assessment. If the risk analysis shows that there is a high risk of infection, the employer can take measures to prevent this infection. And there are different measures: the use of protective equipment, the transfer to another place of work. If it really is not possible to reorganize the work, then a person can be relieved.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U59	While we have a tradition that there is one point to be specified and one question to be put on the spot, I see that more members of the Riigikogu do not want to ask about this fundamental issue, we will allow... Or maybe Leo Kunnas would. Mart Helme, I apologize to you and give Leo Kunnas a chance to ask. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U60	Yeah, that's the militia thing. I received this message on Saturday: "Yesterday, Friday, in the non-vaccinated Estonian Defence Forces, the notice of dismissal was received. " This is the situation. I have no question for you, I simply have a request that you, as prime minister of civil control and supreme leader of executive power, simply explain this situation, specify how these things are and, if necessary, intervene in it. You mentioned here the last time I asked you that there is no reason to let go of the service because they do not vaccinate themselves. This risk assessment is obviously overrated. After all, we see that only one member of the Defence Forces has been hospitalized with this disease throughout this time, and that is easy. I just have a request, no question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U61	Thank you. I'm still commenting. The government does not go to risk analysis for employers. We can't go doing this for all the employers. If there is any doubt, as we discussed with you last time, whether the risk has been overestimated, then you can go to court. And I think it would be a good thing if decisions like this, when it's justified, could be debated in court. I do not think there is any dispute that, for example, in an ambulance where people with a weaker immune system are exposed, people who do not pose a risk to the lives and health of other people must work. However, if there are other jobs with healthy young people, most of whom have been vaccinated, is the introduction of such a measure proportionate? You said you got that message yesterday. I don't have that kind of information right now, but that information will come to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U62	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U63	Let us move on to the seventh question put by Tarmo Kruusimäe Minister for Health and Labour, Tanel Kiige, on e-cigarettes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U64	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! Today we are dealing with draft 412, where there are, say, five amendments. One was the end of the national ban on distance selling. It was a national decision. And the only answer to that is that yes, it needs regulation. Now, well, maybe it's incomprehensible why there's a [prohibited] national distance selling, and I haven't got an exact answer. I did get the answer in the Social Affairs Committee. The people in the Ministry of Social Affairs said it was very difficult to identify a person on the long road today. I don't want to agree with that. We have e-elections, we have young bank cards. This answer is clearly not a criminal and your signature is not there either. But I would still ask if we have had this ban, if it is effective. Do we have any metrics of how practical he is? And how he means, let's say, the principle of equal treatment of entrepreneurship, let alone some other aspects. But I would ask your own opinion. You saw the need to regulate, but what? And are there any results we could know as members of the Riigikogu before we take this decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U65	Honourable member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your question. In my introduction, I must honestly admit that, in a situation where the opposition is increasingly actively talking about the situation and vaccination of the COVID-19, I may have assumed naively that Members, too, actually have an interest in discussing these burning issues in particular. But I'm not underestimating any of the damage to tobacco products, including the damage to their health. But by answering specific questions [I note] that there are two main reasons for the ban on distance selling. In particular, the desire to restrict access, as we are still talking about tobacco products, not the products that are vitally necessary, and also the desire to protect minors, to which you also pointed out in your question. We know that allowing distance selling, legitimising would increase the availability of tobacco products. And indeed, there would be a risk that minors would consume more and more. For example, let's look at a survey on the health behaviour of schoolchildren in Estonia, which is 2017/2018. for the academic year. This showed that the first type of smoking experience, when compared to smoke versus e-cigarette, was 73% of 11-year-olds, 61% of 13- to 16-year-olds and 42% of 15-year-olds. So this is from those who have, right, some smoking experience. Generally, young people actually enter the world of smoking, especially so-called [young] young people and children, which I do not recommend to enter at all through e-cigarettes and other such seemingly more modern or desirable products. And it can inevitably start, and it often becomes a later nicotine addiction that causes health damage. If you are asking whether this particular ban has produced results, if they are measurable, then it really is only recently implemented: it entered into force on 1 July 2019. In the 2020 Adult Health Behavior Survey, these changes cannot yet be fully assessed, so it is, in principle, difficult to provide a final response. While I have to say in the principle that I will continue to stand in the position where I have been both a minister and before: that different health-harming products, they are e-cigarettes, they are cigarettes in general, they are alcoholic products, they must be as little as possible available. They must be available in controlled environments. The person, or seller, must make sure that the buyer is of an adult age. And I think the message that should be given to the public as our politicians is, of course, that by making choices in the shop, making [at all] your choices in life, making investments, there are considerably more reasonable places to channel your resources than tobacco products that are harmful to health.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U66	Tarmo Kruusimäe has a very specific question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U67	I would describe that a lot of people who chose a 95% safer and safer route for others had a chance of getting the product in advance. Now, if it's not in the county center, these people are gonna go into normal smoke because it's sold at every station in every booth. But we make it like sports and caring for the health of a person also cares about the surroundings more difficult. But now that this has been implemented and this ban on distance selling applies, can you describe the results? The public doesn't know that. How much has this had to do with the secret market? I hope there's data like that. We do not do bans and restrictions just on the basis of an intuition, [must] still have concrete results.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U68	Thank you. As I have pointed out, of course, the most sensible, health-conscious choice is the total withdrawal of tobacco products. Whoever does not do this must, of course, assess the degree of harmfulness of these products, make reasonable choices on this basis. But this debate we have also held in the past is that it is not actually so unambiguously clear what the long-term health impact of e-cigarette on the user will be. Similarly, these innovative heat-treated tobacco products and other products have in fact not been studied much, and inevitably there is a risk that this could be the first step towards entering the wider world of tobacco, the use of different products that actually have a significant negative impact on health. As a result of my work, I meet a lot of doctors, a lot of health professionals, they are Estonian pulmonary doctors, they are the leaders of the Cancer Association, it is the leader of the World Cancer Association. And at these meetings, including meetings with representatives of the World Health Organisation, the risk and impact of these novel tobacco products are very often addressed. There's a growing consumer community, a misconception. You also referred to the percentages of how much this product could be safer. He's still not safe, is he? He's still not useful. Inevitably, it is a risk that the number of people who use them will increase and the resulting health damage will increase. And, inevitably, at national level, I do consider it to be one of the obligations of the state to restrict and control, of course, black sales, but also official sales of all kinds of products that harm health. So I'm sticking to my position. I don't have the data on a particular black market at hand right now. If you have a wish, you can, of course, ask about it further, it can be evaluated. But I don't know exactly about the black market. My advice to all people is to find a more reasonable way to spend time. We know that the damage to health caused by alcoholism and tobacco products in Estonia has only recently been referred to by your good colleague Mart Helme to cardiovascular diseases and cancer diseases, which are large and are growing over time. I think that, at Parliament level and at government level, we need to work towards reducing the number of consumers [of these products]. In particular, the use of legally prohibited products would not increase among children, school pupils, addictive and, in fact, minors.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U69	As with the previous question, if the other members of the Riigikogu do not have a question on the spot, we promise, because we are in quite good shape in time, one more point to be specified to Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U70	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good minister! After all, all this talk would be relatively convincing if we did not take into account the fact that it is possible to order alcohol and regular cigarettes via distance selling today. It's as if they don't have the risks you all read out. Why is this determination in the case of less dangerous products that do not lead to passive smoking? Has there suddenly been a major paradigm shift that passive smoking is no longer a problem? I must say that our servants are still complaining in this Riigikogu. Passive smoking is a problem at the moment, and that smell is also sticking to clothes. Perhaps indeed, I do not know, there has been some major change in [the attitude] in the case of alcohol and regular cigarettes, that they may be ordered at a distance from sale, but alternative tobacco products must not be allowed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U71	Thank you. I'll start with my personal perspective. That is not the government's position that I am expressing now. But I very much agree that there is also a need to discuss whether it makes sense to sell alcohol products at a distance. There really is the question of whether this does not encourage minors to get into the hands of alcoholic beverages. We know that alcohol consumption in Estonia is high, including among minors. So I totally agree with these health risks. I do not know whether this was the purpose of your question, but it would indeed be possible to hold a debate which should allow you to order comfortably without leaving your home, in such a way that the goods are issued without requiring an identity document. I think that this would be an adequate debate, given the extent of the health risks and health damage to society caused by excessive alcohol consumption and also by tobacco products, which we are all jointly and severally paying for, on the one hand, and, on the other, we cannot, unfortunately, bring back any life lost. So I support this broader debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U72	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U73	Let us move on to the eighth question put by the Anti Party to Prime Minister Kaja Kallas on the rhetoric that divides society. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U74	Prime Minister! We recently read in the newspaper Margit Sutrop's proposal to push non-vaccine people backwards in order of treatment. Such a startling proposal caused society to bluff because it is a truly divided idea and, in the same way, an unconstitutional logic and a logic against health insurance philosophy. How, then, can such a literally discriminatory proposal be met? If we hear from Mart Helme that he has not been vaccinated on the advice of a family doctor, but his wife has been vaccinated, how will it be now? Don't they let him go to the hospital? The husband gets shot? It's gonna be a pretty interesting situation. What are you going to do with this proposal? Has a reprimand already been issued to Sutrop, or do you approve of it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U75	Thank you. Since you have not been in this Chamber, I don't think you know that I have already answered that question several times. But I'll answer again. Health care is provided to persons insured in Estonia, the help they need. This is how Estonian health services are organised and exactly how it goes. What Margit Sutrop pointed out in his article is that most people have behaved responsibly, have vaccinated themselves, and it does not get sick at all or get sick enough to get into COVID's untrue hospital. Every time you do something, you don't do anything else. If you use money in one place, you can't use it in another place. We have a situation where COVID's sick take on a very large resource. When I look at numbers here, it really is that in all hospital care cases since we have vaccinations, non-vaccinated people account for 96.74% and vaccinated people account for 3.26%. More than €31 million have already been spent on the treatment of non-vaccinated people, compared with just over €800,000 for vaccinated patients. These amounts are very different. Margit Sutrop, who is a professor of ethics, pointed out that at the moment that we have so many COVID patients that we need to start restricting scheduled treatment, in fact everyone else who has other health problems suffers. Grandma, who has a sore hip, can't have joint surgery. Joint operations are the first things to be canceled. These people are also suffering, even though they have acted responsibly. That's the problem. But I assure you once again: persons insured in Estonia will receive health care. We have also agreed on this in the Health Services Organisation Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U76	And now the matter registered on the spot, Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U77	Thank you. A few days ago, an honorable professor in the Estonian media expressed such a view that homosexuals "are useless in explaining and persuasion; they must be pressured and forced, for example, to make their lives even more difficult and uncomfortable. I can't help it. There's a price to pay for society's dangerous stupidity. The basic principle of democracy is that everyone has the opportunity to express their thoughts, but in the end, it will remain the way the majority decides. And if the majority have chosen family values, those who do not should feel uncomfortable. " Well, he actually named a different group of people there than the gay ones he demonized and ordered to be forced and subjected to social pressure and the will of the majority. I imagine that if he had called homosexuals, the front of liberal values would still have gone up on the hind legs and said that we should not have such a ritual space, such a spread of social attitudes in the ERR, or in the mainstream media at all. About the same way your party got up on the hind legs when the e-election cartoon was published. But nothing happened. They'll let that happen. I am not asking you to comment simply on the news, but I also very well remember how you fought for the rights of minorities and against the basic principle of this democracy, that the majority would lay down rules, when we had a debate on the subject of the marriage referendum in the Riigikogu right here. The key principle of this democracy was then very actively spoken out. And I also remember this, or I have in mind how many liberals were thrilled to see that the referendum that succeeded in banning the fuck out of Estonia took place in Switzerland. It was just a good result. I offer you an opportunity to comment on how it is in Estonia. Can honorable professors on the ERR portal call for the demonization of certain social groups, call for their persecution and say that this is democracy?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U78	Thank you. We have freedom of expression and everyone can express their opinion exactly as everyone does. I think there's an important difference between what you can change and what you can't change. It is now a discussion, or the frustration that these people are experiencing, that they share what society has. Most people who have vaccinated themselves, who behave responsibly in society, who adhere to control measures, who respect other people who actually care about the functioning of society as a whole, not only about how they personally do, but also about the fact that these people have a great deal of frustration in terms of the fact that there are people who actually whistle at everything. And I have already referred to Mart Helme's quotes, but he has also said, for example, "This arrogant whistling on top of everything, so sooner or later it will take revenge on society as a whole, but also on the same whistlers. " So you actually realize that society is made up of different people, all of whom must be taken into account. Basically until then, when we did not have the possibility of vaccination, the key to this whole crisis was that the majority had to limit themselves in order to protect the minority. Minority was then those people who get seriously ill, who suffer from the disease so that it can prove fatal to them. Now that the majority has been given the opportunity to act responsibly, or rather to the minority, if everyone has been given the opportunity to defend themselves, then there is an increasing question for the majority who have acted responsibly: why do we have to restrict ourselves in order to protect those who do not want to defend themselves? That's the main problem. So the people who express these views are going to get out of this frustration. Now, there's one thing I want to do. Unfortunately, Leo Kunna is no longer in the hall, but in the meantime I had contact with the Commander of the Defence Forces who said that no one has been released from the Defence Forces because they have not been vaccinated. That's right. There are people, less than ten people who have left of their own will, but this is not related to vaccination.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U79	Anti-Semiamets, please, your point of clarification!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U80	Prime Minister! In fact, you quite often defend discrimination here, either accidentally or deliberately, you do not understand, and you talk about responsibility. For example, are these people responsible for listening to their family doctor like Mart Helme, so don't risk vaccination? You don't seem to have any understanding or compassion for others. We are currently dealing with the greatest limitations of fundamental rights in history under the pressure of circumstances, and that is why it must be taken with the utmost attention. And I don't think you're gonna do it, but you're gonna cut only one iron to get a quick shot, no matter what the family doctor says, no matter what the side effects are. I respect the attention of these people. Not that they line up somewhere in the gym, don't consult their family doctor, think about their health background. It is precisely responsible behaviour that they are deepening their health problem. And I also have the question, have you been following the subject of any side effects seriously? When the EMA tells us about one death, and that's it, and some people say it's still somewhere itchy, it's not serious. For me alone, there are reports of extremely serious side effects. I would like to know what information you are ordering on your desk on this subject and whether it is planned to take this issue seriously, namely the issue of side effects. Don't forget that the AstraZeneca vaccine was also put in place in Estonia in the meantime in March, and it is not allowed everywhere, according to my data, so far. How do we know now that a few months later, all the vaccines will be fine?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U81	Thank you. First, fundamental rights are guaranteed by everyone, there are no fundamental rights restricted in Estonia. We can all people, including Mart Helm, go to all places. Just the same way [can be done] by vaccinated people and unvaccinated people, nobody gets chased from anywhere. You just have to prove if you're not vaccinated, that you've been tested negative. But fundamental rights are not restricted in any way. With the Chancellor of Justice, we already discussed the whole system in the spring whether it was constitutional. This system has been negotiated, it is constitutional. I would point out that when you were in the government, there was a gross restriction on fundamental rights. Creepy! The demonstrations were forbidden, two people could not protest on Toompea. They were disbanded because you just surrounded everything. Then there was a gruesome restriction of fundamental rights; at the moment, no fundamental right is restricted. Now, your question about the side effects. Yes, I absolutely agree with you about the need to consult a family doctor, to consult health professionals who are better able to answer these questions and who are able to take these fears down. And I also agree that, as research shows, the fundamental hesitation of people is that they fear side effects. And only doctors can explain these side effects. At the moment, we have so many vaccines that, in fact, all people can choose a suitable vaccine for themselves, which the health care provider can also recommend. The vaccines are different. It may be that you are allergic to a particular ingredient in the vaccine, then something else is recommended. This is what a health care provider can do. It's not like they're forced to take one or the other, it's a free choice. If you go to the digital registration office, you can choose for yourself. I'm sure it is. You can ask your family doctor about the side effects, but the Agency will also publish these cases if there have been side effects. As far as I can remember, the Agency's website has completely public information about the side effects reported.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U82	Ladies and gentlemen, we have now exhausted the questions that have been sent. I will open the opportunity to ask three ministers in the next 25 minutes, as I wish. Begin Riho Breivel. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U83	Dear Minister of Education, Here's the question. I have received such a letter from an Estonian language teacher who is actually an udmurt of the nation, but has learned the Estonian language here and is an Estonian language teacher at a Russian-speaking school. That's his concern. He writes that in Russian schools I cannot say, he is in one school, but they have [between] connections, having also been a person in the field, [I know that] speaking to each other, the potjomkinlus is taking place in the course of teaching the Estonian language. Often used, these methodologies are imposed, which in fact [does not allow language learning] as they want to. And if they try to fix it, these teachers will be discriminated against, how to say it. My question is how the Ministry of Education... I understand that this is a local government problem often, and I believe that the elections now also raise this issue everywhere so that it can improve. But in fact, the problem with the Ministry of Education is that in these schools, checks should be applied very strongly, where such signals come from, even gently. What have you thought about it, and what are you going to do to make things like this stop?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U84	Thank you, good member of the Riigikogu, for this question. Indeed, I always say that the first place to turn to schools for various complaints is the schoolkeeper. If the schoolmaster does not take this concern seriously enough, it is certainly worth contacting the Ministry of Education and Research as well. We have a separate external evaluation and, if necessary, an external evaluation can also be sent to the school to see if the study is organised as required by the law. So the first place is the schoolkeeper, and if you can't get help from there, it's worth turning to the ministry.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U85	Peter Ernits. I would also ask you to tell the members of the Riigikogu who the question is.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U86	Thank you, manager. The question is for Prime Minister Kallas. Right now, there are rescuers out front again, asking for the average salary, I don't know how many times. It's embarrassing! But the rescuers can't ask now, and I'm asking for them. Prime Minister, soon you will come here with a new budget. What do you say to the rescuers when they ask for the average salary? And also, [how to do] not to happen what has happened before, when most of the money has actually gone to leaders, Kuno Tammearu and his neighborhood, who drives the so-called big waterfall, not to those who dive in the smoke? I ask for a specific answer, not like here with Eerik-Niles Kross or Margit Sutrop in general.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U87	Thank you. Yes, the pay of the rescuers has been a big problem. Indeed, the previous national budget strategy did not provide any money for the rescuers to raise their wages. In the spring we made efforts to find a 3% raise for the rescuers, and now there will be more money, so the pay of the rescuers will rise by 12% next year. I would point out that teachers' salaries rise by 7.3%. Salaries in other areas do not rise so much, and it is precisely because the rescuers have been very behind the others. It is a life-threatening job, and it must certainly be rewarded with [normal] wages. We are making an effort to make this pay countable, so that their wages are motivating. Now that you're asking me how the Rescue Board distributes this raise money inside you, I hope the most important part goes to the rescuers, to those who do this hard work every day. That's the way it's meant for the government to raise the wages of the rescuers.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U88	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U89	Thank you. I'll give you an introduction, it's not a question, but as an introduction, when you were talking here earlier about harsh restrictions...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U90	Excuse me, Mr. Helme, who's the question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U91	I'm sorry! Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. It already said, and I was about to leave. In short, the last question recorded here was that there were harsh restrictions when our government was. I would point out that a special situation was put in place during our government. The emergency situation is well fixed in the Constitution: what can and must not be done at that time. And at that time, those restrictions that were constitutional. These restrictions, or rather those discriminatory arrangements, which today's government has issued, are not currently a special situation and go beyond the powers that the government has. It's a very important difference. But I would actually like to come to another subject. On your right is Minister Kiki. We sent you three letters signed by the leaders of the opposition party. I don't know if you've read this letter in your busy work or if you haven't read it yet. But the essence of this letter is a long sin record of what Tanel Kiik has failed or what he has done and what is not right. And there's a clear call. Since the Centre Party, your coalition partner, has not called one of the weakest ministers back from the government delegation, from its already weakest delegation, maybe in order to improve the government's working capacity, the Prime Minister will replace it. That was our main appeal. Can you answer us now, or can you at least tell us when we can hope for an answer?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U92	Thank you. I don't know, maybe you haven't checked your mailbox, but I've answered your letter. But perhaps it is as [sometimes in such a case] is: it is said that [first] I have not seen your letter, [and] second, I did not like it. But it was a joke. I would first like to correct this issue of restrictions. Perhaps people have forgotten the restrictions that were in force in April: teaching was in a remote form, all public gatherings were banned, museums and cinemas were closed, theatre performances, conferences, concerts were canceled, sports competitions were banned, sports halls were closed, gyms, saunas, spas, sports clubs, playrooms, day-care centres, casinos, slot machines halls were closed, shopping centres were closed, food stations were allowed only for co-sales, bars were closed, amusement facilities were closed. Only two people could be present together in a public place. Those were the restrictions that were in force at the time. Right now, we have control measures. In public indoors, where health is not controlled, masks must be worn. And the second requirement is that evidence must be provided in those places where health safety can be controlled. These are the control measures that are currently in place, we do not have any restrictions. Indeed, in your time there was an emergency when you took all these measures. And in the course of that, you also understood very clearly that this situation is going to last longer. That is why you also came up with a draft law amending the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases, precisely so that the government can take these control measures without imposing an emergency situation. This was your initiative, this law was passed, and precisely according to this law, and also constitutionally, the current government has acted. Now, coming to your letter, you probably haven't read this letter yet. But I am surprised that it was known that the Minister of Health and Labour was coming to the briefing today, and if there are so many reproaches for him, it would make sense that the Question Time asked him questions and made suggestions, but it is not. The only thing the members of the Riigikogu ask is about e-cigarettes in a situation where there are so many reproaches. I do suggest that you take this opportunity to ask questions and make those reproaches that you have made, directly to Tanel Kiigel and also make proposals that could be better done.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U93	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U94	Thank you. Well, I'm gonna have to adjust here. You guys really love...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U95	Mr. Helme, once again...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U96	Ah, Kaja Kallas [is a question]. I'm sorry! You love to quote me, but you forget that these quotations have been said about two years ago when this whole situation began, and they concerned the restrictions introduced at the time, not vaccination. No vaccination! These concerned the restrictions introduced at the time: the maintenance of distance, those institutions which were intended to be closed in emergency situations, etc., etc. You bring them into today's day completely demagogically, as you customarily do, and you are trying to make it look like they are dealing with the current situation. No, they're not about the current situation. That's one. Secondly, there's no point in asking Tanel Kiige. There will be no reasonable answer. For two years, we have heard the mimicking of words and have seen that words and reality are two parallels stretching away from each other as scissors. So we don't ask him, there's no point. And third, my question to you now is very specific. Don't you think, from the current experience, for example, that in Narva Hospital in Ida-Virumaa, no COVID is currently hurting, you shouldn't take all the restrictions off at all? Because cattle immunity was achieved there without mass vaccination.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U97	Thank you. Okay, if you don't like old quotes, then we can get something newer. For example, before here, you were somehow oppressing it - the Anti Half-Amets also used it - because you didn't vaccinate because the family doctor suggested it. Your quote from 10 March 2021 is this: "My family doctor also offered me a vaccine, but since he lists a lot of elderly people at risk, I also gave up and wait for the Riigikogu to be vaccinated as a whole." [[Mart Helme comments from the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U98	Mr. Helme, the Prime Minister will answer to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U99	Maybe what you're saying isn't really true. You're just repeatedly changing your statement depending on your position. That is, of course, worrying. Again, I would like to emphasise once again: we have no restrictions, we have control measures. All people can go anywhere, we have no limitations on anyone's fundamental rights. In this way, in fact, we still have control measures, which are one of the least stringent in Europe. So I cannot even answer your question in order to alleviate the restrictions, because we have no restrictions, we have control measures. Now that we are looking at relaxing control measures, we have very different regions where people are moving. And in the current situation, where we still have an increase in the number of infections, we cannot, unfortunately, abandon these control measures, precisely because we actually need to protect people. Unfortunately, we still have people in the hospital, and this number is growing. And if we get more people in the hospital, it could also mean that scheduled treatment needs to be limited. I know that hospitals are making a great deal of effort not to happen this time and that all people will be able to get help in any case, regardless of exactly what they have to worry about. However, if hospitals are overloaded, then the planned treatment may still need to be limited, and we must make efforts to ensure that this does not happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U100	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U101	Thank you. The question is for the Prime Minister. I'll start with the answer you gave Mart Helme, pointing out his quotes about his own vaccination or his non-vaccination on 10 March. We know that human health is dynamic. Now that it's been six months, nagging a person publicly on the subject of his or her vaccination or non-vaccination is absolutely not appropriate for anyone. But let's get to the question. I'll see what's going on in your government. You're saying make suggestions. So I'm gonna make you a suggestion: maybe we should start talking about government repairs, repairs to your government. We'll see how your rating, your party rating, falls as a rock, and that can't be blamed on you. We've been talking about the Liberty and his inappropriate solos, haven't we? Tanel Kiige, the esteemed Minister of Health, is about to be mistrusted, and it is very difficult for you to tell the truth to protect him after everything he has not done. And Kristian Jaani, whose overreaction in restricting people's fundamental rights has been mentioned here many times, and which is why you personally have had to lie and cast a great deal of lies in this Chamber. Yeah, I'm really coming to protect you, and I'm saying that maybe it's all been a little unfair on you, but it is in your hands right now. If there is now a mistrust, perhaps you will seriously think about it and the other ministers of your government. Why don't you do this government repair, if not before the election, maybe after the election. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I think it would be good for Estonia. Perhaps then you could also start filling in your electoral promise about Estonia, which was better kept.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U102	Thank you. When I listened to you, I was under the impression that you were proposing to form a government together. Maybe I misunderstood it, but I got the impression. I am refusing this proposal now. We will continue with this government, we have many challenges ahead of us. We have reached an agreement on the state budget, which really, as you say yourself, is aimed at ensuring that Estonia is better kept so that the people of Estonia are better kept, so that we can invest more in people, we can raise people's salaries, we can deal with overcoming learning gaps. We're going to have a family mediation system so there'll be fewer children from broken families. We deal with mental health problems. At the same time, we also focus on Estonia's rapid and sustainable development, which concerns that we invest more than 100 million more in defence capabilities. We invest in the Estonian education system. We're canceling the excise increases. All the things that are necessary for Estonia's sustainable development. So, thanks for the offer, but no.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U103	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U104	Thank you. I also have a question for the Prime Minister. If I remember and calculate correctly, the current government has been in power for eight months and two days, which is quite a long time on the one hand, but a short time on the other. But this human quality is for all of us who ask in this hall that we often want to whine and whine and remember only things that have gone badly either in reality or in our imagination. But they rarely ask about things that have gone well. And now I would like to offer you the opportunity to have another three minutes to answer this question, to talk about things that you think this government has done well and which could be going particularly well in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U105	Thank you for this positive question. What has really happened is that we have been in government for eight months, and this has been a difficult time. We still have the corona apandemia with which we have fought and, unfortunately, there has also been an economic crisis. What has gone well is that we have quickly done an additional budget with very precisely targeted measures. As a result, we had a growth rate of 12.9% in the first two quarters and, in fact, an annual growth rate of 8 to 9% is projected. If you look at economic growth, it is positive that there seems to have been some structural change in the economy. We have talked very much here in the Riigikogu, too, how much we want our people to actually do a job with higher added value, which also means that a higher salary is paid for it. If we look into these numbers, there has been some crunch: we are actually guaranteeing more growth with less labour, greater gross domestic product. The IT sector has grown a lot, there are high salaries, there are smart people. The fact that we are moving towards smarter Estonia with a smarter economy has certainly been positive. It is also positive that we are investing even more in R &amp; D, with nearly 30 million coming next year. Again, when we look at the countries high in the global innovation index, these are the countries that we want to be like, because the well-being of people is very high there and they can afford better services, then these are the countries that invest more in R &amp; D. So we're on this road, too, and we're putting more money in it. And as I have already said, it is also positive that our focus has been very much on people, so that people are better kept in order to make people feel good in Estonia and we can focus on what is good.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U106	Now here's the thing, there's three minutes and 30 seconds to the end of Question Time. Given that there are two minutes to ask and three minutes for ministers to reply, that is a total of five minutes, I will finish Question Time here. I wish ministers and Prime Minister strength in the work. We will begin the plenary session of the Riigikogu in three minutes' time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U107	Good fellows! Honourable Riigikogu! Good afternoon. We will begin the 3rd working week session of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over any drafts or inquiries. Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U108	Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitution of the Republic of Estonia is based on the assumption that the people of Estonia are the master of their home. The word independence does not have any other meaning. The introduction to the Constitution can be quoted as food and food, but when you start saying that the people want to control themselves, they will be shy to shut up. The Centre Party won't stay. Our firm conviction is that the independent Republic of Estonia is our largest national common property. Everyone has the right to his or her independent opinion and the freedom to agree with others on which country he or she wants to live. The state does not have to fear its own people because the people themselves have made this country. Let him go on, day after day, year after year, century after century. Let him tell you who gets into the local government, who gets into the next parliament. Let him tell you who's in Kadriorg. If we trust the people, we trust ourselves and our country. The Republic of Estonia remains in trust, and that is why, under the leadership of the Centre Party, the draft direct election of the President will be handed over together on behalf of one Social Democrat and the ambassadors of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Once, the Centre Party was alone with this idea for years. We are sincerely pleased that we can now talk about three political parties in the case of signatories. Sooner or later, we'll do it. I recall that President Lennart Meri also supported the idea of direct selection. The draft has been signed by 45 ambassadors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U109	I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U110	Thank you, good Chairman! Good colleagues and people who follow us online! It is extremely important for the Isamaa Party that Estonians receive service in Estonian. The penalty rates as defined in our language law are in the way of their time. They were last processed in 2014: EUR 64 for private individuals, EUR 640 for legal persons. We have raised the penalty rate to EUR 10,000 here with different governments, but the purpose of the Fatherland is not to punish people, but to motivate them to comply with the language law. Therefore, our rise is not as colossal as the EUR 10,000 already mentioned here. Isamaa thinks that Estonian must receive service in Estonian. I therefore ask the ambassadors to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U111	I ask the Riigikogu for a speech chair from the Government of the Republic of Heili Tõnisson. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U112	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching seven draft laws today. First, the draft law supplementing the Law on Safety at Sea. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure in the proceedings of the draft law. Secondly, the draft law amending the Law on Health and Safety at Work and other laws [and the law amending the Employment Contracts Act and related amendments to other laws]. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Health and Labour. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure, the Traffic Act and the Tax Administration Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of the Interior in the proceedings of the draft law. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity. Fifthly, the draft law amending the Gambling Tax Act and the State Budget Act. Sixth, the draft law amending the VAT Act. Seventhly, the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and the Law on special labelling of liquid fuels. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance in the proceedings of the above four draft laws. All drafts have been transmitted electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U113	Thank you. This opportunity really is to transmit them electronically. There is no further request for referral of drafts or enquiries. As a result, on behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted nine drafts, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Good colleagues, we're conducting a presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U114	75 members of the Riigikogu signed up, missing 26. Dear colleagues, there is now an item on the agenda. May I have your attention, please? On today's fifth item, this is the draft law on the amendment of the Citizenship Act initiated by the Isamaa Group, which bears the number 388, we are dealing with the first reading of the report by Marko Storm, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Now, this clarification has been passed on to you, so we can get to the point and go to today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U115	The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? That's what I thought they wanted. That's why there was a break. I will open negotiations and ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech from the Group of the Estonian Social Democratic Party, Jevgeni Ossinovski. You guys made a little nervous play here. Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U116	Thank you, Mr President. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U117	Yeah, it's about eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U118	Ladies and gentlemen, Today has reached its final stage, which has been discussed several times over the last decade, and so far, fortunately, the adoption and entry into force of this draft has succeeded. Today is the moment of final decision in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. It is undoubtedly...... a weighty decision, in which each of you bears responsibility for your conscience, and given that it also affects the environment, then also before future generations. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] This is a bad law [of the draft], for three reasons. First and foremost, he's bad for the environment. You can imagine that this is a bill that increases the share of renewable energy in Estonia's energy production, and as such, an environmentally friendly person like me could rejoice over it. But I can't do that. As always, things that start at a small level and as such are reasonable when they reach global, global and supported by support schemes, they become absurd. This has happened in burning wood biomass to generate energy. From an undertaking that started as a very sensible plan to make effective use of waste from the wood industry, sawdust and oks-tops for the production of heat and electricity in a local boilerhouse, Europe has actually become a major activity in the burning of stem wood, in which Estonia is one of the leaders. Our forest is also burning in very large volumes in furnaces in other European Union countries. The latest report by the European Union Centre for Common Science has clearly shown that the Renewable Energy Directive, which has allowed countries to pay on it, has actually increased the burning of stem wood in furnaces, which is bad for both the climate and biodiversity. This research is available to all of you and also translated into Estonian. This has been a bad decision on a European scale. It has brought many benefits to a small number of people who have become rich in this field, and there are also many in Estonia. But the impact on the environment has been bad and we need to draw a line on it. The main source of this is that we were allowed to burn timber in large condensation power plants, fossil fuel boilers, over 100 megawatts in addition to the local boiler house. This is an exception in the directive, which has been combated by the lobby of fossil fuels, and this has been supported by it. Estonia has so far abstained from this debate. It's been a big fight, but we've been able to avoid it. We do not pay except that the Auvere power plant burns the forest and 60% of the energy is simply poured into the river. We don't do that kind of stupidity. But with this bill, we're going to do it. Instead of fighting, at European level, the inefficient burning of our timber resources in Europe in this way, we are actually going to do the same and force our consumers to pay for it. The impact on the volume of felling is obvious. According to the draft, an additional 2 million cubic metres can be burned in the furnace and it is clear that such a high increase in demand will also increase the volume of felling. Not to mention its effects, which are in the Estonian context, where both ecologists and climate scientists agree that we need to reduce the cutting volume. The same, by the way, has been suggested to us by the European Commission's vision for 2030: reducing cutting capacity in Estonia by 2.5 million cubic metres per year. So from an environmental point of view, it's crazy. In 2021, when the international climate panel has already shown that a one-and-a-half degree warming is inevitable and we are experiencing a biodiversity crisis, it is that we have agreed to proposals for climate neutrality to start burning wood on a massive scale in a fossil fuel furnace, simply crazed. That's a crazy idea. In addition......... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I know, I'm so good at it, it's making waves in the hall. Secondly, this is a bad bill for the consumer. Nobody forbids burning trees in Narva ovens today. It is simply economically uneconomical in general, because timber should not be burned on a massive scale in a large fossil fuel furnace; it must be paid for the subsidy. This means that the price of electricity under this law, when it starts, will rise. This is a regulatory decision that increases the price of electricity to Estonian consumers. Just yesterday, we were discussing what a crazy story, the price of electricity is too high, we should take steps to provide relief for the consumer. With this draft, we are taking a real step towards increasing the price of electricity for the consumer. I don't think that's right, certainly not right at this point. And given that it comes at the cost of destroying the environment, it is fundamentally wrong. Thirdly, this law is against the constitution and, unfortunately, there is nothing to say here. With its rapid rape, the Government Union has tabled amendments to this effect, which have made it unconstitutional. In fact, § 113 of the Constitution requires that taxes be imposed by law by the Riigikogu. It is not possible to delegate, for example, the right to set a tax rate to a government level, except in some exceptional cases, but even then the law must set a maximum rate, on which it depends how that tax is levied. The current draft has removed these restrictions and, in principle, it is possible for the government alone to decide that in 2025, for example, the renewable energy fee will be one third higher. This right is granted to the Government of the Republic. The Constitution certainly does not provide for such a broad standard of delegation and should not do so. The Legal and Analytical Department of the Riigikogu has also drawn attention to this. This is an unquality proposal, and as such it should certainly not undergo constitutional control. And, of course, Parliament, which is aware that this law is contrary to the Constitution, should not vote in favour of this draft. In conclusion, since 2016, when I have been dealing with this draft, and I really, my colleagues know, I know the subject of this draft to a level of detail, it has been most saddening that in five years we have had an understanding and knowledge that inefficient mass combustion in fossil fuel kilns should not be done from an environmental perspective, that we have gained mass. It has come internationally, it has come within Estonia, it is required of us by the European Union. That is what the European Union's Common Science Centre says. Today we can't say we don't know. This decision, which has been brought here, is consciously anti-environmental and must be voted against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U119	Thank you. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the party of the Isamaa Party, Sven Sester. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U120	Thank you, Mr President. Well, it's kind of like two different drafts are being processed in this hall, looking at the statements and statements of the previous speaker. I think this is a very good bill. I'd even say it's a little nudgy, looking at how he came from the Government of the Republic to the Riigikogu and how he's going out of here today. One could even say that, to some extent, the level of ambition has been downgraded, and that is then the result of some sort of compromise between today's coalition partners. I would point out that this bill has come to this Riigikogu, viewed by an earlier coalition. But I'm gonna make a few remarks not to talk for long. We have so far focused mainly on new regulated production capacities for electrical equipment and new non-regulatory production equipment. Essentially, these are possible earlier cogeneration plants, or when we talk about unregulated possibilities, wind, sun, hydro, etc. Now we are actually paying attention to existing production equipment, and I think, unlike the previous speaker, that the use of biomass is renewable energy. And I said before that the level of ambition has even gone down a little bit: I realise that, in the negotiations, the initial rate of support from EUR 15 has now reached EUR 10. Indeed, the potential fear was that the price that would be paid for possible timber could affect the market. All right, this is a compromise, but by looking at the current sales price levels of noble wood, it's birch or pine or something else, these price levels are considerably higher. The price itself tells you that you basically have no alternative, if you want to drive wood into the oven, you actually have the debris, the brush and all this "low-value" wood. The evaluator himself will determine this. Mr Ossinovski said that I wrote it down a small number of people have benefited. In fact, that is not the case. There are 100000 forest owners in Estonia. 100,000 forest owners! If Mr Ossinovski means that this is a small amount, then I think it is wrong. I believe that the opportunity given today will actually give us the opportunity to clean the Estonian forest and bush on the one hand and create some added value on the less valuable timber that still exists in one place or another. So once again, I'd rather think that ambition has been drawn down a little bit than before. I was talking about going to EUR 10 for EUR 15 earlier. The same is true for years: earlier, three-year cycles were foreseen, but now a two-year cycle has been introduced. I understand that this is the result of earlier compromises. Once again, I think that taking steps in the production or use of renewable energy is, in fact, one of these steps, in addition to [wind] and the sun, the introduction of biomass, or wood. I think we could support it this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U121	Thank you. I now ask Kalle Grünthali, representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, to speak at the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U122	Ladies and gentlemen, This draft actually protects the production of electricity in Estonia; we can do it ourselves. Paragraph 594 (1) of the Electricity Market Act is amended and worded as follows: "In accordance with this section, aid is paid to produce electricity from renewable energy sources in 2030 40 per cent of Estonia's total final electricity consumption. " This does not mean, of course, that we are going to drive some valuable wood somewhere in the oven, but that the background to this bill is much further away. As a member of the Committee on European Union Affairs, I remember that this month we had a draft that tried to limit its production of electricity from biomass and renewable energy sources from the CO2 emission target.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U123	Good waitress, I apologize to you for a moment. Good fellows! The President cannot manage this sitting. Please help me! There's too much noise in the hall. Quiet, please! Let us honor the waitress and honor those who wish to listen. Thank you. Please, waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U124	Thank you. However, the root of this is that during this same debate on European Union affairs, it became clear that there is also a plan to change the issues of gas production in Germany, that how much it can be used for CO2 purposes. I have this question that it is interesting that we now have to decide here that we are no longer using biomass to produce our electricity, but Germany can continue to use the gas that comes from Russia through Nord Stream 2 and whose production is not very green. When I asked the rapporteurs in the Commission about this, there was such a very negative response that a position might be taken in December. I see such a situation that the European Union is currently trying to shut down electricity from our renewable energy source by means of its directive, but there is no answer to the question of why it is not applied to gas production in Germany. I also pointed out that it should actually be the other way around: first we regulate this part of the gas and then we are going to go to the regulation of our renewable energy source. But unfortunately, that thing remained. However, this law [the draft] gives us the opportunity to take precedence over the directive of the European Union and we are still able to maintain the production of electricity from renewable energy sources and the payment of subsidies on that basis. I think it's a good bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U125	Thank you. More requests for speech... [[There's a cell phone ringing in the hall.]] I'm asking you to turn the phones down, too. Thank you. A little rejoinder on the spot, Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U126	Thank you. Since Mr Sester has mentioned the arguments made in my speech, it is true that there are many private forest owners in Estonia, but, as Mr Sester knows very well, private forest ownership is still seriously concentrated. This means that the huge economic benefits I have talked about have, however, been gained from this business by a handful of people in Estonia. Mr Grünthal has misunderstood this is not a first-time approach to how the European Union works. In this particular issue, the regulation of the European Union favours the mass burning of Estonian forests in fossil fuel furnaces in the Member States of the European Union. The same scheme that we are discussing here, too, has been authorised by the European Union. But that is the bad regulation that exists in the European Union. This is actually amplifying climate change and damaging biodiversity, as the volume of felling due to the regulation that is in the Renewable Energy Directive has increased considerably. As a result, not only debris, as Mr Sester claims, will be burned to generate energy, but more and more trunkwood will actually be burned, which is in no way wise or reasonable. In this context, we are going to do this stupidity ourselves, which means that we are not just burning wood in the oven, but we are also going to pay for it from the consumer's tariff. That's the point. In fact, we could be one of those who, as a forest-rich country, would like to protect their forests from such foolish use and look for ways to really deserve it instead of simply burning it on a massive scale.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U127	Thank you. I think Kalle Grünthal, too, because he was mentioned, has the wish of the rejoinder. Please, Mr. Grünthal!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U128	Thank you, Mr President. I do not want to agree well with Mr Ossinovski's view that I have misunderstood something. The point is that I attend meetings of the [Commission], but Evgeni doesn't come very often. In this sense, we cannot talk about what is not really known and what was said in the hearing. That's one side of it. The other side is, of course, that the honourable Jevgeni Ossinovski has previously erred here in relation to certain circumstances, for example, when it was intended to reduce the expenses of members of the Riigikogu in order to transfer them to a different budget line, which unfortunately cannot be done. I guess it was, I don't remember exactly what it was, but two weeks or a week ago, it was on the floor. So thank you, Evgeny, for pointing attention, but first you have to get things straight, the basics, and then you have to start making criticism.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U129	Thank you. We have different ways of speaking in this toolbox. A procedural question, Jevgeni Ossinovski.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U130	Thank you, Mr President. I have a question for you. Can you assure Mr Grünthal that Mr Ossinovski, unlike him, is not a member of the Committee on European Union Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U131	Thank you. I'm sure I can. Okay, now there's no more calls. I will close the negotiations and start preparing for the final vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Act 156 amending the Electricity Market Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U132	With the result of 69 votes in favour, 9 against and 1 abstention, the draft Act amending the Electricity Market Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been adopted as 156 laws. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U133	We will move on to the second item on the agenda, which is the third reading of draft law 376 amending the Law on e-identification and trust services for e-transactions initiated by the Government of the Republic, identity documents and state fees. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No, I don't. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. [[It's ringing the bell.]] Good fellows, there's too much noise in the hall. [[It's ringing the bell.]] Can we go to the final vote? Thank you. I will put to the final vote draft law 376 amending the Law on e-identification and trust services for e-transactions initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Law on identity documents and the Law on the amendment of the Law on state fees. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U134	With the result of 76 votes against and no abstentions, the draft law amending the Law on eID and trust services for e-transactions initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as 376. That concludes the second item. Let us move on to the third item on the agenda. Kalle Grünthal, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U135	Thank you, Mr President. I really appreciate your calibre power, but I'm afraid the table won't last until the end of this session for your insane hammer punches. Of course, the positive thing is maybe somebody's waking up.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U136	Thank you. I'm gonna act like I'm gonna keep this property better in the future. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U137	The third item is the Transport and Mobility Development Plan 2021 to 2035. Minister, I ask you to sit down. [[In the diner.]] Let's not interrupt now, neither you nor I, what's going on in this hall. Thank you. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Taavi Asa, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U138	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I will present today the draft "Transport and Mobility Development Plan 2021 to 2035" to you. The development plan has been drawn up for the first time for a long period of 15 years because many changes are taking place in the field, including major investment objects such as Rail Baltic construction, considering the construction of the Tallinn Helsinki tunnel and the construction of the trans-European TEN-T transport network, are long-term and it will take time for the results to be revealed. Compliance with the national development strategy "Estonia 2035" has also been considered. The development plan has been a two-year open process involving a very wide range of interested parties in transport and mobility policies. The content of the development plan has been compiled on the basis of the input gathered at various inclusion events, the expert assessments and modelling results of the ITF and OECD studies and better expert knowledge of MKM. In addition to the usual coordination and disclosure procedures, the draft development plan takes into account the results and recommendations of the SEA report. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] The "Transport and Mobility Development Plan 2021 to 2035" has been drawn up in multimodal terms, i.e. the chapters cover all modes of transport - road, rail, sea and air - and all modes of movement. The aim is, for example, to reduce CO2, reduce energy consumption and increase the number of passengers using public transport. Multimodal planning is essential to achieve this. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] The development plan focuses on reducing the negative environmental footprint of means of transport, and we use the CO2 reduction indicator primarily to measure it. At the same time, the greening of transport will achieve many other environmental objectives, such as cleaner outdoor air, which will also have a positive impact on human health. The draft development plan aims to be much more ambitious than the existing commitments, but is still below the newly proposed "Fit for 55" package. We can only transpose the principles and objectives of this package into the development plan once we have discussed the principles and objectives of the "Fit for 55" package with the Member States. The development plan is structured on the basis that it can and should be amended and supplemented on an ongoing basis as necessary. Efforts to develop transport are extremely investment-intensive compared to previous development plans to make it as convenient for people to use modern public transport as well as bicycles. We need to create a competitive alternative to car traffic. A clear focus is on road safety, the ultimate goal of which can only be zero death in transport. However, for the period of the development plan, the goal is that we do not lose more than 30 people in traffic during the year. The aim is to follow the example of the Nordic countries and the Netherlands, where cycling is growing and popular in both larger and smaller cities. On behalf of the state, we have also prioritised the development of this direction and have provided financial support for the development of larger cities' cycling infrastructure. The aim is to increase the understanding of a bicycle as a perfectly normal and competitive daily means of transport. Through this change we can also make our traffic environment safer. We can see that infrastructure must be designed in a sustainable and multimodal way. The development plan describes the four-step principle: before solving the transport problem by building new infrastructure, all other alternatives should be considered, for example, whether it is possible to address this problem by influencing demand, more efficient use of infrastructure or by minor adjustments to infrastructure. The principle that the state can channel demand where necessary must be taken into account. In other words, if we promote rail transport instead of cars, the number of rail users will increase, not the number of car users. At the same time, however, we must ensure safe connections between our main cities. The plan is to continue to build the highways of Tallinn to Narva and Tartu to four lines in order to reduce time-space distances and increase the safety of traffic. The asphalting of the country's gravel roads will also continue to improve the quality of public transport and provide companies with better roads. Over the next 15 years, it is planned to increase the speed of rail, make it more environmentally friendly, for example by electrifying a total of EUR 250 million, and to create new connections and channel both passenger and freight traffic from road to rail. The goal is to reach Tallinn in one hour and 45 minutes and to Tartu in one hour and 30 minutes by 2035. In addition to increasing speed on the existing railroad, we're getting more trains to improve the connection. Currently, a procurement of six trains and an option to purchase ten trains is underway. These, in turn, are accompanied by Rail Baltic trains. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] An international train connection to Europe will also be established, i.e. Rail Baltic will be completed. It is also planned to introduce local stops for the Rail Baltic route in conjunction with the rest of the railway network. The development plan is multimodal, reflecting the entire transport policy, including maritime transport, and also replacing the existing maritime policy for the years 2014 to 2020. It is planned to make the maritime transport sector more competitive and greener and connect it to other infrastructure. The aim is to increase the number of ships flying the flag of Estonia to 360. In addition, we expect more environmentally friendly ships for ferry connections during the next service period in order to reduce the environmental footprint of shipping. The first fully electric ship should be on the line in 2024. In aviation, we have taken the greening and digital revolution of aviation as an ambition. The objective is to open up scheduled air services for aircraft powered by electric and hydrogen engines. There is also great potential for unmanned air traffic, for which preparations are already needed. It is also important to stress that the existence of a validated sectoral development plan is a prerequisite established by the European Commission for us to start using the funds for the European financial period 2021 to 2027. In the transport sector, we are currently planning more than EUR 600 million for the Cohesion Fund and the ERDF. I ask you to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U139	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! I'm a co-rapporteur on this point and I've read the plan, but I'm also reading the social media. One of our colleagues has written there how tolls, congestion charges, new fuel taxes will come with this development plan. And then he's written in block capitals: it would be too much. Comment, please! The public would certainly like to know what new taxes we will have with this plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U141	Thank you. There will be no new taxes under this scheme.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U142	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U143	Thank you. Well, I don't know, the waitress was really kinky right now. I'm going to count, I think about six words were in the sentence he answered. Surprisingly short, that was the answer. I have read this development plan, too, and I have just seen that the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities has brought out a separate place on the coordination round, where there is a chapter entitled "The User Pays." It is well pointed out that local taxes affecting mobility behaviour: congestion tax, car tax, infrastructure charges, etc. How are they? And then you've also said nicely by the Ministry that we're going to soften the wording a little bit. It's black in white, I'm not making anything up, read the development plan, and that's where it comes out nicely, from the coordination table. I also have a question for you, Minister, for what it is now. Are we basically opening the door right now? Yeah, we're not imposing a congestion charge right now, but let's say it's still possible in the future. We're actually creating a whole new background. Is that how it is?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U144	Thank you. So let me give you a little bit of an explanation for that. If you read this development plan, you will see that the objective of reducing CO2 in the transport sector is actually quite ambitious. CO2 reduction can only come at the expense of us using less fossil fuels. Only then can CO2 emissions be reduced. Fossil fuels are what we tax on with fuel excise, through which money comes into our budget to maintain our infrastructure, or roads. If we achieve the objective of this plan, this footprint will not be reduced by a real third, but by almost a third. This, in turn, means that the revenue from excise duties on fuel will also be reduced in the state budget, as they are linked together in a single way. The reason why these charges are mentioned in this draft is that during this period, when we are about to achieve our CO2 reduction target, we must decide how we will in the future collect money in the state budget to maintain our roads, infrastructure. In other words, the fuel excise duty known today, which is collected from a litre of fossil fuel and will no longer be collected in the future, must be replaced by another fee to maintain infrastructure. This development plan itself does not say what we should start using, but it does indicate that the tax environment will change in the future. If we no longer sell petrol and diesel at a gas station, but we know that electric cars and, in the future, hydrogen cars will certainly want to drive on a proper infrastructure, then we simply have to make a decision, or our offspring will at some point have to make a decision on how to replace the current fuel excise duty.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U145	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Tea-street is our common hobby and passion, I know. My question concerns page 20 of the development plan, there is a forecast of costs and investments. I understand that, during this period, EUR 12.4 billion will be contributed to its implementation, and I will see that almost EUR 2 billion of this in turn goes to the construction of roads. I do not dispute that the construction of roads and road safety are very important, and I think that all over Estonia the people expect it. But there is only EUR 200 million for sustainable urban mobility, which is 10 times less. Doesn't that bet seem modest to you? Do you not think that the role of sustainable urban mobility should really be significantly increased in order to achieve the beautiful objectives that are stated here [and reflected], among other things, by the many images that have biked people, on the cover and elsewhere? Isn't it a little scurvy that $200 million?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U147	Thank you. You could always bet more. I don't know where else to contribute. And when you bet more, it usually happens that you're still missing. Why are there so many roads? Indeed, I think that we still need to correct errors and build proper connections between our major cities. The fact that we do not have them today is simply a mistake, and that is also the reason why so much, proportionally more money has been earmarked specifically for roads. But really, it's nothing more than a correction for mistakes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U148	Good fellows! Pursuant to our Home and Working Procedures Act, a member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to each of the rapporteurs. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U149	Thank you very much, Minister. In your presentation, you mentioned that the development plan deals with the safety and security of light traffic. In general, transport and movement not only apply to the earth, but also to the sea, to the water. You mentioned the sea, but there is also river traffic and light traffic on rivers and seas. My question is how much this development plan deals with the safety and security of light traffic on the river. By light traffic, I mean rowing, rowing, that kind of non-motorized movement.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U150	Thank you. I must admit that this development plan really does not reflect this movement very much. But the development plan is only at first reading, the proposals of all members, including members of the Riigikogu, are very welcome during the reading break, how this development plan can be made even better.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U151	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U152	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I would pick up where my good colleague Sven Sester left off. Indeed, I will mark a few pages where it is clearly stated that there is a congestion charge, a charge for the use of transport infrastructure and a charge for the use of the means of transport, for example on pages 11 and 24. In fact, my question is that, okay, with a congestion charge, we're teasing the tall people, congratulations, I'm not going to discuss it for a long time, but without a rural car, as it emerges from here, it's practically impossible. How will you still plan regional development if you introduce these taxes? And indeed, I did not find here that these taxes are intended to replace excise duties on fuel. Really, I couldn't find it in this document. But I understand you're allowing it now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U153	Thank you. A few minutes ago, the Riigikogu's remote control said that taxes can only be imposed by the Riigikogu. If you give me the honor that I will introduce taxes, I assure you that I certainly do not have such a plan, and I do not have such a right either. Indeed, it is not explicitly stated here that future excise duties on fuel will disappear as a tax. But once again, read it in essence: if the carbon footprint decreases, then CO2 can only be generated from fossil fuels, then it makes sense that fossil fuels will be reduced and, together, fuel excise will also decrease in the future. The development plan does not impose any taxes; the tax issue is completely separate from this development plan. By the way, we already actually have a heavy duty tax, it already exists. But once again, this development plan does not impose any taxes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U154	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U155	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister, You used the word electrification here. If I understand correctly, it's the future. I listen to these discussions here, and I understand that putting poor wood in the oven is sin, oil shale is sin, diesel fuel is sin. I don't know if we're going to have a nuclear power plant or not, isn't it sin? But I'm asking you, where's the electricity coming from? Have you discussed that if we want to switch to electric heating, electricity is very important, then where does this electricity come from? We don't have too much of him right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U156	Thank you. It was yesterday that we had quite a long and interesting discussion about it in this very Chamber of the Riigikogu. I think it was a well-needed debate, a very interesting debate. In the context of this development plan, we are talking primarily about electrification of the Estonian Railway Infrastructure. It's partly electrified by now, but it should go on. These previous questions also referred to an increased number of electric cars. In order for this to happen, we must certainly create more opportunities for electricity production, in particular for environmentally friendly electricity production. But, as we said yesterday, we certainly need to have controlled electricity so that we can cope with the situation we are in on the electricity market today. Fortunately, we have manageable electricity, and I am pretty sure that we will not have any major changes in the electricity we manage until 2035. It is possible that if these debates, discussions, are successful as far as atomic energy is concerned, then perhaps by 2035 there may already be a nuclear power plant in Estonia. But this, of course, assumes that these heated debates have been successfully held first. In any case, it's certain that we need controlled energy. Surely by 2035 we will also have better connections with our neighbours. One of the reasons for this situation is that we do not have sufficient contact with the Nordic countries. If there were more of these connections, we would certainly have more environmentally friendly and cheaper hydropower.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U157	Timo Suslov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U158	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I'm sure you think I'm asking about hydrogen. But I'm not gonna do it this time, because yesterday you said from this remote control that some apples have fallen on people who talk about hydrogen. I'm asking about the public transport arrangements. This development plan has examined the usability of public transport and found that its share is actually decreasing. Among other things, there is a great deal of free money placed in public transport. When will this pilot project end, so that we put this free money in the quality that public transport will definitely require?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U159	Thank you. The state has not obliged anyone to keep the public transport network free of charge to the consumer. Municipalities, municipal associations and public transport centres have decided this themselves, they have been given an opportunity. I myself hope that more and more of these opportunities will be offered in Estonia, because there are people for whom this opportunity is really important. But once again: this has not been done to anyone, it is the decision-making power of the local government.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U160	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U161	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Can these replacement taxes not happen, as has been the case now at the price of electricity, these replacement taxes, which we are talking about here, are congestion taxes and other possible fuel charges, so that we will impose them later as a result of excessive prices? Today we see what has happened at the cost of electricity, it just gets too much for people. Now we are trying to reduce the footprint in transport by introducing new taxes that may become too much for people, which may eventually be too much for people to keep a car. I just have a comment. I've seen that congestion charges are said to be for people who drive to city centers. I am a permanent road user in the direction of the city, and I can say that when I go to Tallinn, it is very easy to go to the city centre after crossing the intersection of Ülemiste, there is no congestion. There's traffic jams on the way into town and around the city center. It was said as a remark.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U162	Thank you. Yes, moving in the city centre made it much easier in Tallinn when bus lanes came. That's right, bus lanes. That was years ago. There was a huge controversy around these bus lanes. Many who used the city center for transit traffic scared them, thought they wouldn't get through here, were just bus lanes, and started driving around the city center. Therefore, those who actually needed to come to the city centre were very happy afterwards, their movement became much, much better. I once again assure you that this development plan will not introduce new taxes. There's no plan. But the purpose of excise duties on fuel is to collect funds from road users to maintain these roads. If cars stop using fossil fuel or are less driven by that fuel, then the need to keep you in order will still remain, and it will not disappear by itself. Somehow, these resources need to be collected in the state budget. I'm not saying there must be more of them than we're picking now, but there must be some kind of alternative in the future. This debate is certainly interesting, but it is certainly not the subject of this development plan or its content. The content of this development plan is still something else. If in the future something needs to be changed in the tax environment, something to be replaced, it is a decision of the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U163	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U164	Thank you. Mr. Minister! Tell us clearly and directly your application on behalf of the government: taxing Estonian car owners so that they can no longer own cars and can drive [only] millionaires, bosses and ministers in their professional cars. It's actually an idea, the logic of conservation. And what we're talking about is that there's no congestion tax, no toll, no additional motor fuel excise, of course they're in here, that's the main battery. I would remind you, Mr Aas, to say clearly that you support these taxes. In 2018, as mayor of Tallinn, you insisted on introducing a congestion tax in Tallinn for the entrance to the city centre. And I would like to remind you that in 2019, in the case of the European climate plan, you also tabled a proposal to introduce a congestion tax and toll for the people of Estonia. So how are people gonna move? What utopia is it to force people to stop using a car to meet certain climate goals? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] How many people are you hoping to get rid of the car? How many people, many dozens, many hundreds of thousands of people will give up cars with petrol engines or diesel engines?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U165	Thank you. But I categorically refuse to repeat your words.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U166	Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U167	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, My question is that I have found a very ambitious objective in this development plan: by 2030 all gravel roads will be covered, as I understand it, dust-free. How do you appreciate this goal, whether it can be met? And the second question: can we no longer organise the WRC-rall on gravel roads in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U168	Thank you. However, we are talking about gravel roads with more traffic. Surely this is not about covering all the gravel roads. Today, the goal is to cover hard-coated gravel roads with traffic of more than 50 cars per day, this is the goal. It is also very difficult for the country to aim to cover all gravel roads with hard cover. Secondly, it does not make any economic sense either because these [hard-coated] roads will have to be maintained afterwards, and it will be considerably more costly than keeping the gravel road in order with low traffic. As far as racing is concerned, no, the race will definitely remain. Even now, when moving the roads under hard coverings, the rally organizers are working together to maintain these legendary speed test sites as they are. But I admit that this is often difficult because the rally operators also want to bring new experiments into the scheme and, unfortunately, these new cuts may already be wanted to be covered with hard cover. However, cooperation is ongoing and is still trying to keep it so that Estonia can continue to race in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U169	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U170	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! Thank you for a substantial and substantial document. I am pleased to see that this development plan includes not only unmanned public transport, i.e. self-driving public transport, but also unmanned aircraft. Two- and four-person people in Estonia are already being tested today and in the future they would open up the possibility of organising round-the-clock transport with islands, for example, where there is no possibility of receiving them now after the ferry has left, other than by helicopter. There's been a problem. Self-driving buses are already wrecking in Tallinn, but self-driving cars are often restricted by road markings and lack of electric traffic lights. I couldn't quickly find them in this development plan right now. Do you agree that such things should be included in the development plan? Road markings are very important for these cars to recognise where they are and how they can transport people safely.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U171	Thank you. Undoubtedly a very necessary and constructive observation. I think that, between readings, such goals can certainly be included in the development plan, so that we can think even more about the future. It is one thing when it will be realised, but once again, since this development plan is up to 2035, there will certainly be major changes in transport and transport development over this 15-year period. Let's think about where we were 15 years ago, okay, and where we've come from now and what's going to be in 15 years. So, no doubt, that's a good point.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U172	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U173	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! To get better legal clarity, I'd like to know what we mean by the term "hit"? I remember that we once had a discussion in the City Council of Tallinn, and then you defended the position, but it was a long time ago, that if the car is standing still for 15 minutes in one place, it is a deadlock. Has this period changed significantly, or is it the same now? When can we tell people there's a traffic jam? Otherwise, it's just an assessment of the people who are racing for, for whom it isn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U174	Thank you. Yes, transport specialists have also said that there are no classical congestions in Estonia, there is slowed down movement. Such a deadlock, where there is a long standing, really does not occur in Estonia, or if it does, not because of normal circumstances, but because of special circumstances. So, yes, in fact, in Estonia we can talk about slowed down movements, not congestion.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U175	Ladies and gentlemen, on this item, we have one question for both rapporteurs, so that Mart Helme will be able to ask the next.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U176	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I don't have a direct question, I have an observation of parallel history. When, after World War II, Labourmen came to power in Britain, we can say the Communists in a softer form, they decided that British aristocracy would have to fight decisively. Their solution was: we tax them to death. I get the impression of this development plan, although it is all in a rather hidden form that the decision of this development plan on the use of the car is the same: we are taxing the use of the car and the users of the car to death. Am I getting the wrong impression? Confirm or disprove.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U177	Thank you. I am categorically overturning because for the construction of 2 + 2 roads alone, this development plan provides that we need EUR 1.7 billion. It all goes to make car users better and more comfortable.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U178	Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U179	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. Thank you for introducing the development plan for transport and mobility. My question is, where are we headed?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U180	A better future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U181	Aivar Kokal is also a question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U182	Good manager! Dear Minister, I'm sorry I haven't heard everything you've said here, but I'd ask you this. Has it been said that since the construction of 2 + 2 roads is, as we all know, behind the design and everything else, will there be taxes, such as road tax, car tax? These are the topics that were glowing under the coals here in the spring, and that were quite a lot of news in the press. Are they included in the current transport and mobility development plan, or where are they?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U183	Thank you. Yes, there was a lot of talk about this at the beginning of the round of questions. I reiterate that this development plan does not impose any tax. This development plan merely indicates that our tax environment in the field of transport will certainly change in the future. Since this development plan provides that we use little fossil fuels, fuels sold per litre, in this form, [hereinafter], the emphasis on excise duties paid on them is on alternative taxes. But once again, this development plan itself does not impose any taxes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U184	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U185	Thank you. Dear Minister, How is this development plan in line with the European Commission's proposals for a shared commitment regulation on 14 July, including transport, where emissions are expected to decrease by 24% by 2030? This development plan has been written before, as far as I know, when the target was 13%. How, in the meantime, have you integrated twice as much climate ambition into this development plan, and if not, what changes will you foresee now that the European countries finally agree on what now came out in the summer?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U186	Thank you. There was an answer to your question. We really have not dealt with them here, and precisely because they have not yet been agreed. If they are agreed, these agreements can also be included in this development plan. However, this agreement is unlikely to come before next autumn, but a development plan is definitely needed earlier. As you know, all development plans are time-changing documents, especially development plans, which have been written until 2035. So I think that this development plan will be reviewed again and again, and if anything is agreed, these agreements should be reflected in this development plan in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U187	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U188	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! Your presentation began in a nice and quiet way in private, and it seemed a carefree and fun development document, but when you answered the questions, it became at least as lively as the debate between the Members, which did not allow me to be very distracted by your presentation. I have a question about [also tax]. Of course, this development plan does not introduce any new taxes. You have pointed out on several occasions that, in the form of taxes on fossil fuels today, we will not be able to maintain our infrastructure in the future. In particular, this development document does not introduce new taxes. But what is your personal understanding and scenario that this infrastructure will be built for in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U189	Thank you. Very good, provocative question! I'm already seeing these headlines. But it's a decision of the future. I think, broadly speaking, that right now, excise duties on fuel are still paid by those who specifically use this fuel, perhaps using the means of transport using this fuel. And I think that even though the types of fuel used by cars will change in the future, payment should be done in the same way: those who use infrastructure will also pay for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U190	Aivar Viidik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U191	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! The question concerns light traffic routes, which are set out in the development plan. Positive examples from the Nordic countries have been presented here and it has been stated that there are very few light traffic routes in Estonia. At the same time, the need for these in cities has been highlighted in particular in the development of light traffic routes. I'm asking if I understood the development plan correctly in the short term. And the other part of the question is whether you agree that the development of light traffic routes in small towns, especially those on the road to transit routes, is already very, very important in the context of road safety alone, as well as health behaviour.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U192	Thank you. Again, you've answered your own question a little bit. All light traffic routes are important. Today, we are already in the habit of building light - traffic roads along large roads during the reconstruction of roads. That is largely the case today, in the case of national routes. This development plan simply marks the need for more light traffic routes and more attention to light traffic in the urban area. In fact, we have already taken the direction that a pedestrian road will be built along this road in the reconstruction of roads.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U193	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U194	Minister, thank you very much. You retorically answered my colleague Saaremäe's question that we are moving into a bright future. But if you look at this seriously, our tax base will decrease, the cost of maintaining infrastructure will certainly increase, and it will increase again, and it will be very expensive to build it all up. What is the bright future in your vision?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U195	Thank you. I would stick to this specific development plan for this item. A bright future within the meaning of this development plan, also in 2035, is when the objectives set out in this development plan are met.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U196	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U197	Thank you very much, Mr President. Very honourable Minister! The aim of this development plan is to improve connectivity and mobility in Estonia. You have not touched the ferry traffic between the Estonian islands and the mainland today. Can you say in a word how much this development plan changes or plans to change anything here? Let's face it, ferry traffic has made a huge leap of quality over the years, but demand is growing all the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U198	Thank you. In fact, the development plan has dealt with ferry traffic. I also said in my opening report that in 2024 we should have the first fully electric ship on the line and between the islands. This is a new vessel to be acquired, which certainly improves the quality of mobility between islands in itself. There will certainly also be discussions about if we have the fifth ship, whether and when the sixth ship should come. I'm sure these discussions are still ahead of us.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U199	Marko Storm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U200	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I am currently reading about the use of active modes of movement in the development plan, and you have touched on it slightly. I am interested in the funds allocated to light traffic routes from 2021 onwards. You were talking about the urban environments, the direction is that way, but I'm more interested in the county and the smaller centers inside the county and their connection. Have they been discussed further in the development plan? What opportunities are there and how will the local community be involved? Municipalities, municipalities and all that. I especially have Haljala and Võsu on my mind, so I'm asking.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U201	Thank you. Yes, this development plan has certainly also put emphasis on the development of light traffic routes, both within and outside urban areas. I replied that we have actually taken a major step forward in the reconstruction of roads with the construction of light traffic routes. I dare assure you from my experience that the interest of local governments in building these roads is very high, and I think that there is no reconstruction or construction of any road in Estonia today so that the local government is not involved or discussed with it. One very serious part of the negotiations, one of the biggest pieces of it is, as a rule, how the road to light traffic could be built next to it during the reconstruction of the road. The [local authority] will certainly be involved; there is no other option here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U202	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U203	Thank you, good vice chairman. Honourable waitress! I still can't be any different if I have to ask about the vision, because there are specific numbers. 2035 can't sell cars with an internal combustion engine anymore, it was slammed to us in the summer like a fist in the eyehole. These are hypersuperplanks. How do you plan to take away the appetite of car owners and get to that bright future faster? We know that at the same time, the fermentation process in the stomachs of cows is being fought, just like Mao Zedong was fighting the sparrows. We will be in history by washing the stomach contents of the cow. I'm sorry, but these are science fictional plans! By the way, the country paper said how the cow's guts are gonna be flushed with a better liquid. It's shocking and science fictional. At least help us with the cars. How do we move toward this sacred purpose of 2035?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U204	Thank you. This development plan doesn't say anything about cow snakes, that part's missing here. How did you say not to drive? There's no plan to ban driving. Absolutely nothing! As I have already said, EUR 1.7 billion will go to build 2 + 2 roads, and it will not be put in there for the roads to stop empty. They're still making sure there's traffic. So there's definitely no intention of banning anything. The European Commission's proposal that 2035 cars driven by fossil fuels should no longer be produced is the Commission's proposal and has not been addressed in this document, because we do not yet know how the countries will finally agree.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U205	Sulev Kannimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U206	Good President!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U207	Yeah, everything works. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U208	Good waitress! You were talking about light traffic routes that would be built along designed or reconstructed roads. In fact, there is, as far as I know, some kind of methodology that takes into account the number of people, the number of schools and all that. If they are taken into account, for example, it is not possible to build light traffic routes along many main roads according to this methodology.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U209	Thank you. I agree with you that you always have to approach on a case-by-case basis. Indeed, if you consider only how many people are walking along the road in this area, you will certainly not get the right answer, because if there are no roadways, you will not move there. If a road is made for light traffic and if there are potential mobiles in the area, this road will be used. So in that sense, you have the right point. We need to look at whether there are potential movers in the area and not count those who have so far been down the road on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U210	Good Minister, the members of the Riigikogu have no further questions for you. Thank you! Now let's hear Kristen Michal, the waitress of the commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U211	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Minister has already talked at length and thoroughly about the development plan, and I am talking about what took place in the Commission. The Economic Commission discussed this development plan in a similar way and through a wide range of issues. I'm trying to recite what's happened. The Commission met on Monday 13 September. First of all, I say that there are no first readings or other readings in this form, as referred to here before, but rather this debate. The purpose of the debate is to give the Commission's minutes and a verbatim report of this debate to the government and the government confirms its development plan. That's what's gonna happen. There will be no more voting or other activities here. We hope that the members of the Riigikogu, as always, will present weighty and important ideas and the government will take them into account. All these key nuances, which the Minister spoke about, were examined in the committee. Of course, this is primarily a vision document. Maybe you don't want to get stuck in the details so tight. There was also a question of whether there would be new taxes. There are no new taxes coming from here. The development plan actually describes the way in which the wider world, including the European Union, sees the use and taxation of infrastructure in the future. But any taxation or financial targeting of transport through positive and negative incentives must be decided by the government of any government coalition. So with this development plan, I asked before, no new taxes will be introduced. Neither car use nor any other transport is subject to any additional tax. It's important. I'll see what may be the most important questions. One question was about the recommendations, if you look at the recommendations that have been made here, I will not go looking for the right page, so that Estonia should not aspire to become a regional transport centre. It also raised questions about me, I admit. On this point, the Minister and the Vice-Chancellor in this area replied that this was simply a recommendation from the OECD on this development plan, so that it would not be necessary to dream of the recovery of transit. This concerns, in particular, eastern transit, not north-south transit, which has been specifically mentioned as a possibility for the future. Annely Akkermann asked how it was planned to develop roads in the future. That's what it says. According to memory, about EUR 1.7 billion and the larger ones are turning into four lanes. It also discussed rail financing and the state of the railway and how to increase the speed of [by rail] and whether it would be enough to increase the speed of the money currently foreseen. The Minister said that hundreds of millions of euros are needed in order to increase the speed of some sections to 160 kilometres per hour, and the effort is being made to move towards it. But it's all a complex procedure, as he put it. One issue was the support measure for electric cars and the future. The representatives of the MKM said that there would probably be various measures in the future, including infrastructure and everything else, but that they had not yet provided precise details, said that the funding was still in the process of being agreed. Finally, what Mr Ossinovski asked in this Chamber was also discussed: if there are any further recommendations from the European Commission, will this plan be changed? The answer is yes, the plan will be changed. But as the Minister said in this Chamber, these recommendations will not come until next autumn. So maybe the current situation is a little bit that we're discussing something that the recommendations are just coming up on, and then it changes. In general, the Economic Committee reached a consensual decision to appoint the citizen here as rapporteur and to propose that the agenda be put on the agenda. We also decided to ask for the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, which, as it later turned out, has discussed this repeatedly. The debate was summarised by the following sentence: a discussion took place and the members of the Commission asked the relevant questions. Thank you and I am happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U212	Begin Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U213	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good fellow Kristen! If possible, could you take off the hat of this member of the Economic Commission and put on the coalition ambassador's hat and explain it? I am absolutely sure that the Reform Party, which in all its electoral material shows a lot of box wheels, also listed you handed over on a box wheel and cycling with great pleasure, certainly demanded in the government that the share of sustainable urban mobility be greater than those lousy EUR 200 million. That money is ten times less than the highways. I'm sure you insisted. Can you explain what arguments the Centre Party had that they didn't come along with your request? Why do they not understand that bike paths are important and urban mobility is important?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U214	I stress that I cannot take this hat off because I am a Commission waitress. We did not have such a debate in the Commission. Secondly, I certainly would not call several hundred million euros lousy. At least my financial situation doesn't allow you to call it that, maybe you have a different situation. And thirdly, it seems to me, and here I can make a counter-complement for you and many people who do it, including in Tallinn, I can also compliment the Centre Party that thanks to the fact that nearly 100,000 litres of plastic was poured into the streets, it is temporary, it cost EUR 3.6 million, which now flows into the sea and is characterised by light environmental crime, people are increasingly beginning to realise that urban space needs development, including light traffic and everything else. The one thing that I don't think has been fully understood, I think, is that road users could be allies. If someone walks or rides a bike, he's actually the best friend of a car driver because one car is out of traffic. But that time will come. To praise this plan, it would rather try to move towards a better future. As the Minister said, it is limited to this plan that it will be a better tomorrow.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U215	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U216	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! If you answer my question, you can boldly put the Commissioner's hat back on. The question relates to Tallinna-Helsing's fixed connection in the context of this development plan. Was this at all a matter for the Commission? If so, I would like to know what the opinion of the current political parties in the Riigikogu is. Did that come out of the Commission? Is it like it's over the field? Are there any big questions? This will certainly be one of the very important points in the future of how these two cities will be united, and I would be interested in what is the opinion of the political parties currently present in the Committee on Economic Affairs on this subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U217	Thank you. This question was not raised during the discussion of this development plan. I can't find this point right now, but you can look at it later, it's in here, it's definitely written under the development of a permanent connection. In my understanding, I hope that I am not mistaken, that is my personal understanding as the leader of this support group, as the chairman of the Economic Commission and as the enthusiast of this tunnel, all the parties represented in the Riigikogu support the idea of establishing Tallinn's twin town and permanent connection. I have repeatedly spoken to members of the government both in the coalition and in the opposition, and the Prime Minister has also said that this is an important issue for the government. The Finnish state has a "Memorandum of Understanding," in other words, an understanding of how this should proceed. And it actually says that projects can still be one. The ones that are coordinated and carried by the countries, but also by the private sector. So, in fact, the ball is now in some ways in the hands of the countries where progress should be made. I really hope so. The timetable could still be that, if Rail Baltic is moved forward, we have all received news here in the meantime that the completion of Rail Baltic will be delayed a little bit, then, after that, we could begin to build this north-south freight tunnel or fixed connection and from there we could look at this northern corridor. This could be the big plan that is [useful] for Estonia and, in fact, for its north-south trade flow and economic income. The tunnel, the fixed connection you asked about, has been found in both the initial and the second studies to be very practical for economic growth in both countries, because it also harmonises the market, provides new opportunities, creates both financial and non-financial security. So it's definitely a good thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U218	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U219	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The development plan summarises the cost of this period and this is, of course, a significant amount of EUR 12.4 billion. At the same time, he refers to some mysterious explanatory statement that does not exist. It is true that there is a text following [the development plan] that opens it up a little bit. But if we cut the money there, we'll get some EUR 4.5 billion. This is significantly lower than 12.4 billion. Was there any mention at the Commission meeting of what the remaining 7 to 8 billion will be spent on and why it is not included in the development plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U220	No, it wasn't. Thanks. The explanatory memorandum actually exists, it is on the government bill, and, as you said, it is really short. Here is a description of the methodology and the level of involvement, and these figures are shown over the years under the forecast of the cost of the development plan. But these decisions come separately from one year to the next, this is a prognosis.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U221	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U222	Thank you, good vice chairman. Honourable waitress! Both you and I understood from this development plan that this does not impose any new taxes on us. But I have a question as to whether there was a debate in the Commission, as the Minister did not want to publish it to us, with what plans, with which ways you are going to anticipate it. Was the Commission discussing what, or what taxes or charges, the state would build a road infrastructure in the future? Is there a vision in the ministry that you know, and when could the drafts start coming here from the ministry? Is there a political agreement on this? Are the authorities working on it or what it's like?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U223	Thank you. First of all, there was no mention of this in the committee, and perhaps because the Minister knew that there was no point in introducing new taxes with at least the chairman of this committee and its coalition. If the new government or the old one comes back, it could change.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U224	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U225	Good manager! Good chairman of the committee! You and I had this brief conversation earlier. The Minister here spoke of the disappearance of fossil fuels and, consequently, the disappearance of excise duties and everything else. I came to Tallinn today by the Tartu highway. They put asphalt everywhere. If the development plan somewhere states that concretes can be made instead of asphalt roads, [it should be taken into account that] they are usually placed on them as the last layer of asphalt. Does the development plan say you're going to be made of, I don't know, scrap paper or plastic? If fossil fuels cannot be used by Estonia, they should not be used in road construction for asphalt. We all know that it is produced from an oil product.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U226	Thank you. Good question. We discussed the same question with you earlier. Road construction is constantly looking for ways to do this in a more sustainable and high-quality way so that the same money can produce a better and actually more lasting result, especially in Estonia, where the roads are in such a quite harsh climate. However, this [disadvantage of fossil fuels] still mainly concerns transport and investment in this area. We did not really discuss this issue in the Commission. But I think that is the kind of question that needs to be discussed at some point.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U227	Good Commissioner, there are no more questions for you. We have finished the round of questions and listened to the presentations and we can go to the negotiations. First word to Kersti Sarapuu. Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U228	Good chairman of the sitting! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The total number of routes in Estonia is 16609 kilometres, of which the gravel is 4563 kilometres. Dusty gravel roads have been a topical theme for decades and it is significant that the country has set itself the goal of building dust-free coating on all major gravel roads with traffic rates above 50 cars per day on national roads by 2030. When the country's plan becomes a reality in ten years' time, a daily source of concern will disappear for many people. The exceptionally warm and rainy winters have made gravel roads very bad all year round. The roads are holed up, soft, with deep rails and difficult to pass. It often doesn't help to plan the roads anymore. Dust rising from gravel roads covers almost everything in roadside households. If you don't water them enough, the dust will rise with dryness, and at a speed of 20 kilometres an hour, we'll be all over it. In all of this, it is noteworthy that this year the Transport Board is developing a network of state roads for a record amount of EUR 253 million, building and repairing more than 2,000 kilometres of state roads. This year, 32 miles [32 km] of gravel is covered, more than 100 km [100 km] more than last year. There are also other important road constructions, such as the construction of Võõbu.Mäo 2 + 2 road section, which is an important milestone for faster and safer passage of the entire road between Tallinn and Tartu. This 16-km four-line section, which will be completed next year, brings Tallinn and Tartu closer to each other by two kilometres. When it comes to the entire road rights of Kose-Mäo, the temporary victory is nine minutes in large part. The Committee on Economic Affairs and I just went to see the road construction, and this is a really great sight. In addition to the construction of roads, the construction of crossings between Rail Baltic and state roads with the railway is also in the early stages. In order to extend the use of Rail Baltic railway beyond the local train traffic of international traffic, local stops for the route should also be established and deployed. All this according to demand and in conjunction with the rest of the rail network. In developing the transport sector, we must be guided by the principle that transport is as close to people as possible. The planning of the transport line networks must communicate with the local population and show flexibility. The expectations and needs of road users are not uniform from one region to another, but very unique. The State cannot rely solely on their profitability for the provision of public services. The country is for people, not the other way around. Free public transport is a very good example of a functioning regional policy. The public transport reform carried out by the Estonian Central Party meant not only allowing free travel, but also financing additional regular kilometres. This made it possible to tighten up the network and to set up public transport centres on the basis of the needs of local people. It is noteworthy that in the first year of free public transport, the number of scheduled kilometres was increased more than in the previous 14 years in total. With the arrival of free public transport, the state has increased public transport support by almost half, in particular due to the creation of new bus routes. In 2017, the number of bus routes was 36,2 million regular kilometres, but in 2020 the figure was already 44.9 million. The country has created almost a quarter of new bus routes, while at the same time reducing pressure on people's wallets. The biggest challenges in public transport are still linked to the provision of space and service quality in remote areas. The question is how to make mobility between counties even easier. This needs to be based on the convenient compatibility of the different modes of transport. Different modes of transport, such as bus, train, tram and ferry, should not compete with each other, but should complement each other and provide a convenient alternative to a private passenger car. Public transport must be affordable for those on lower incomes, but also attractive for those on higher pay. Fast and convenient public transport offers opportunities to reduce people's travel costs, which in Tallinn and Harjumaa alone is about 1.5 billion euros per year. We know that time plays a very important role in the use of public transport. The user has an important overall journey speed, which takes to move from home to the end point. It consists not only of the time spent on a bus or train, but also of the time it takes to reach a stop from home and of the time it takes to reach the end point by public transport or by bike from the point of destination. Today there are a lot of concerns on small towns and other settlements along the Tartu highway, where people often do not get on the bus. Therefore, greater attention must also be paid to these issues. In order to better reconcile modes and schedules of transport, new hubs for comfortable and fast connections need to be developed, where car and bike parks are also built. In this context, the integration of cycling with public transport infrastructure could also be considered in order to further promote environmentally friendly and healthy lifestyles. This development plan for transport is also important for a fast, dense and convenient train connection. The goal is to reach Tartu from Tallinn in 2035 in one hour and 30 minutes, and from Tallinn in one hour and 45 minutes, in Viljandi in one hour and 30 minutes. It's almost time. In addition, Rail Baltic will take the train to Pärnu in 45 minutes. So it is appropriate to create such interconnections. In view of the future, a single, cross-estonian ticketing system could be established to improve user experience, where the same tickets can be used on both public and commercial routes, irrespective of the mode of transport. A uniformly organised ticketing system and cooperation between different modes of transport will help users to better reconcile different modes of travel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U229	Thank you very much. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U230	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much. Where does such a sentence come from, such as "Estonian transport policy', which aims to ensure comfortable, accessible, safe, fast, smart and sustainable mobility for citizens and businesses, in line with the objectives set out in European Union legislation"? Right, it is in this very development plan for transport and mobility. This is the positive side right here, this is the positive side. But what's the negative here? Today, in this round of questions, the Minister stressed several times that the development plan does not introduce new taxes. But I'm telling you, ladies and gentlemen, the development plan gives us a sense of value and a signal for the future. Of course, the development plan does not impose any new taxes; it cannot do so. But he's giving us a direction where we're headed. He'll give us a direction where we're headed. If we look into the development plan, we will see that the introduction of the "User pays" principle is expected in the future to introduce a number of new taxes. This in turn means an increase in Estonia's overall tax burden. New taxes, the transformation of the fuel excise system, the whole of this goal has been set by the Government of the Republic in the context of climate policy. In real life, this means that we essentially want to force people to stop using cars. At the same time, it has to be said that the passenger car is no longer a luxury right now. He may have been in the past once, but today he is an essential means of movement, especially in rural areas and especially for families with children. The Fatherland has submitted an inquiry to the Minister for Economic Affairs in the context of this same transport development plan. Do you know when it was filed? June 16th, this year. The point of the inquiry was that the Minister for Economic Affairs should come and talk a little bit more about what he means by a congestion charge, what he means by road charging motor vehicles, what he means by building up a new fuel excise system and how he wants to reduce the number of cars. Minister for Economic Affairs, I have now checked the document register, to be answered on 18 October this year. On 17 October, the local government elections will be held. I don't know if this has anything to do with it, do I? But on June 16th, on October 18th, four months later, the minister is coming to tell us. Ladies and gentlemen, looking into this development plan as well, I think that the objective that this development plan itself sets out is a good one. I think it makes sense to move towards fast, smart, sustainable, accessible, safe roads. Absolutely right. But it cannot come from the fact that we are introducing new possible taxes. These cannot be congestion taxes, car taxes, infrastructure charges, etc. The Cities and Municipalities Association, I looked at the coordination table, paid attention to it, also said that listen, you have... in the texts it is possible to see that the text of the development plan refers to the transport sector, the introduction of a road user fee, and the user pays for the implementation of the principle. And now the question asked by the Cities and Municipalities Association is whether there is political support for the introduction of an additional tax burden and how will the local authority relate to it in the future? The Ministry's answer to this was: we note that really tax policy directions are a little softer in order not to go against the principles of tax policy-making. That's it, that's the Ministry's position. Ladies and gentlemen, We need to think seriously about the future we want to see. Is this the future of new taxes? And what my good colleague Urmas Reinsalu asked in this hall was not asking for a reason: looking at history, we see that this minister who has brought us here today this specific transport development plan, he has wanted it before, he has never even denied it, he sees that in fact they, these and these taxes could come. Is that right? I don't think that's right. To sum up: today is not the place where Parliament can approve, we do not endorse the development plans. But we can give the government our side... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U231	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U232	We have a chance to signal the government. The government will finally approve this development plan. We can give the government the debates that took place in the Commission and the debates that took place in the Chamber. And on this basis, in fact, the government will eventually establish or approve its development plan. So good government, I have a request for you to observe this debate that has been in this Chamber today! And do not take up the topics below the carpet, which will ultimately increase the tax burden on Estonian residents in the future. Because if you put it in the development plan, you will actually give a signal in the value room: yes, we want to impose it, yes, with this development plan we will not impose it, but there is a clear message in the future: you see, the development plan from 2021 to 2035 already saw this coming in that direction. Do not do this, please remove these different tax burdens! The various tax burdens associated with families with children, people living in Estonia, are not a reason to start talking today about the congestion tax, which is the car tax, which is the charge for the use of infrastructure. Maybe so much more about the car tax. Indeed, Estonia has few, if not the only, countries in Europe where there is no car tax. To be honest, you have to be proud of it. It's because the Fatherland has been in government for a period. Let us hope that we will not see this car tax in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U233	Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu for a chair... I'm sorry! I'm sorry, I'm sorry! A procedural question, Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U234	Thank you. Sven Sester presented a very clear doctrinal approach. I would have been delighted if the Minister for Economic Affairs could have listened to this. In the case of development plans, the Minister has been in the Chamber, as the normal parliamentary culture envisages. I don't know where my good friend Taavi Aas is right now, but I think Sven is willing to repeat that call to Taavi.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U235	I'm ready to talk.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U236	Thank you. I would certainly ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, both Sven Sester and everyone else, to listen and read carefully about this development plan. It's a little more festive now. I request the Riigikogu speech chair Raimond Kaljulaid. In addition, I have a mandate to forward. In fact, on 29 September 2021, the Social Democratic Party Group authorises the Riigikogu to represent Raimond Kaljulaid with its speech during the plenary session of the Riigikogu on the Development Plan for Transport and Mobility 2021 to 2035. Signed by Kalvi Tõvi, vice-chairman of the Group. Directly, we do not have political group representatives in the development plans, but, well, it is such an overstatement, and it does nothing wrong. So I'm asking you for a chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U237	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! I would like to thank you for the firm chairing of the sitting, and I would also like to request that you give me three minutes of extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U238	Yeah, please, eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U239	Thank you very much. This subject is so important. First of all, I want to reassure my colleagues about the Fatherland. You're worried about the government taking money from people. I know that the Fatherland will sooner or later find an opportunity and give this money back to the people, and this will bring back a prominent and prominently funded election campaign in the future. So don't worry, you'll get that money back to the people. Before we talk about the content of this development plan, we need to look at its form. I have this routine here, I took it off the back shelf, I didn't print it myself. 20 photos have been used in the design of this development plan, and half of them have people who, like here on the cover, for some reason push over the electric bicycle by the hand of Tartu Kaarsilla. I don't know why they're doing this instead of driving, but all right. People travel by bicycle, there is also one electric motor wheel, there are trains, trams, public transport, ordinary buses, and self-driving buses. There are even ships in two pictures and a plane in one picture. I think, good fellows, that you understand what I'm suggesting: where is the vehicle that we meet most often in traffic, where are the cars? They're almost gone. So if you browse this development plan so superficially, then Estonia is moving unambiguously or actually already has mainly reached sustainable movement. Everyone walks, bikes, electric drives, public transports, everything looks very Nordic and progressive. You know, the contents are beautiful. Let me read you some of my favorite statements about this development plan. The heart sings, already on page three there is a declaration: "The main focus of the development plan is [... ] A reduction of the environmental footprint, or sustainable transport development policy, to help achieve the climate objectives [... ]. We support cycling and walking by offering better mobility, accessibility and ease of use. Page four: "In urban areas, we develop a connected and shared mobility environment [... ] to increase the use of sustainable modes of movement at the expense of car users. " At the expense of car users, pay attention to very modern thinking. The state wants to "reduce people's car costs, which are about 1.5 billion euros a year in Tallinn and Harjumaa alone." 1.5 billion euros a year, Estonian people spend on cars and the state wants to reduce these costs. Noble. On page 8, it is noted that, indeed, the objectives set so far in this area have unfortunately not been achieved. The quote begins: "In 2019, only 38,8 percent of people used public transport, walked or rode their bikes to work, and this proportion is decreasing. " On page 9, it is clarified that the State has mapped the accessibility of public transport stops and is "uniform between regions and different types of objects'. I will translate to you, which means that people will not be able to access public transport stops in Estonia. That's what that sentence really means. "Regions and different types of objects unevenly" - the pulpit. In fact, this means that people cannot get on the bus, saying it in Estonian. "The needs of children's carriages, people with special needs and the elderly are not always taken into account in the overall journey. " Translating: Sometimes public transport cannot be used because of children, prams, wheelchairs, or age. That's what it really means. And then there's this, I'd say, the old days, the Soviet-time-like wording saying, "there's not enough progress to slow down the drive." In fact, this means that the number of cars is increasing, people are buying more and more cars and driving more and more. All these beautiful words, all those beautiful declarations, all those beautiful promises in this development plan are very nice and these pictures are very nice. But then come the numbers, it's gonna be a tough weekday. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on page 20, when you open this development plan, what I have already pointed out here with the Minister is that it is planned to spend EUR 200 million over the next 15 years to develop urban mobility, sustainable urban mobility, while 2 billion are planned for road construction. A lot was written in the earlier text about sustainability, the climate crisis and the green turn. But, in fact, we all see: 1.6% to develop sustainable mobility in cities and 17% to roads, with roads written in black and white; the state honestly acknowledges that "the construction of roads does not support the development plan's efforts to develop sustainable transport." Road construction does not support the development plan's efforts to develop sustainable transport, yet it takes almost a fifth of the resources provided for in this development plan. I will not deny that our roads need to be modernised. I'm not denying that you have to bet on safety. A lot of people depend on these roads, these connections. Our main roads are narrow, curved, very dangerous, uncomfortable sections. I won't deny it. I would simply point out that, when the money was finally distributed, the roads received ten times more than sustainable urban mobility, and this, in turn, is further divided between the promotion of bike roads and the promotion of electric transport. Just so I don't get one side of the story, I'm gonna give you a brief description of the flights. We compare the current situation in Estonia with Norway, for example. Norway has Andøya Island, which is half the size of Hiiumaa, with half the population. The island itself is one third smaller than the territory, but five flights to two destinations leave during the working days. The plane leaves Hiiumaa from Kärdla twice a day and the plane is 19 digits. There's a 39-seat aircraft coming from this small island of Norway. Or another example, the commune of Røst, I hope I pronounced the name correctly, in the Norwegian alphabet it is a letter like O drawn with a dash, an island half smaller than Kihnu, a third less inhabitants, but two flights leave the island every day. We invest 20 million euros at Pärnu airport. But Kihnu can only fly if ice conditions do not allow ships to fly. So this is how we treat the people of our small islands. Now, the Chairman of the Economic Commission, Kristen Michal, said that this is still a plan for a better future, and he complimented the Centre Party here. Kristen Michal has been complimenting the Centre Party lately, by the way, often, you have certainly noticed. But that's it. I think the government as a whole may not deserve this compliment this time. Another little spiteful, pedantic observation of the selection of images. On page 43, the photograph shall show the light motion on the road, the electric drive wheel. I acknowledge that this person has a helmet in his head, and electric drives are certainly very nice. But I will draw the attention of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the authors and designers of this development plan, to the fact that the same Ministry recently brought the bill here and it became a law, and according to this, electric drive is not allowed to drive on the road. So this situation, which is depicted here, is not only illegal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U240	Thank you. I cannot ask the waitress, but since she brought this comparison, I myself looked at the picture on page 43 and compared it with the picture on page 15. There is also one difference between both bike riders; it is such an interesting nuance that can also be appreciated. But now I would like to ask for the Riigikogu speech chair Heiki Hepner. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U241	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The development plan for transport and mobility, and the whole area it deals with, is undoubtedly very large and very broad. In fact, his importance is so great that it is impossible to underestimate. But if we look into this development plan, page 9, the main problems, really, what do we find there? We will find topics related to public transport, rail is mentioned, as well as light traffic, icebreaking capacity, maritime transport and the environment, water infrastructure and aviation, and it is recognised that indeed, road transit has increased by 4% per year. Actually, this context is negative. And if you go any further into this document, it's clear that the road is from the devil. It was such a generalised leverage by me. But let's take a look in here. We heard the tax issue here, it's nicely brought in. There is no point in saying that nothing will be introduced with this development plan. Indeed, nothing can be established with the development plan, but it gives a clear frame, it gives a clear plan on the direction in which we should move. The minister then said that no, no, there is actually no such plan, but let's write them into the development plan, and the resources still have to be found. The answer was so confusing, I don't think he actually understood exactly what he wanted to say. Let's take a look at this excise. I remember there was this connection once that fuel excise went for tea storage, for road development. At one point, however, it was found that it was actually one tax money and was not going to make any distinctions here, and it was untied. Well, of course it meant getting on the road to the orphanage. If we look at these indicators, we will see that it is indeed foreseen that 650 kilotonnes, or 27%, should reduce CO2. So the fuel excise doesn't go anywhere. It's a big bubble. And indeed, very rightly said, the tacit development plan for car taxation, road taxation and also congestion taxation. I am not opposed to discussing how to finance our ways, but I am categorically opposed to saying that tea is not important. This is one of the most important areas of regional development, I repeat, one of the most important areas. Mobility begins when there are normal paths. I understand and admit, and I understand very well what has been pointed out by the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities: if we make these things difficult and a rural man can no longer move like what is strictly necessary for him, it is no luxury, having a car is no luxury, then we will actually kill rural areas with it. The subject of free public transport was also discussed here. Really, it's very voluminous and we could talk about it for a very long time. But today we've come to free public transport so far that the county bus stops... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U242	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U243	... it is not even possible to set timetables, but the authorities are urged to cover these costs. And even then, these costs will not be covered if there is a partial ticket revenue, just as we have in four counties. They say it's going to a common boiler, but now, come up with more money, municipalities. Where have we come from with this free public transport? Let us take another example of where money is put. But is that wise? The total budget is EUR 12.4 billion. One third of it has been written out, nothing has been said about two thirds. 7.9 billion have been put away. Those who have travelled from Tallinn to Rapla have seen a bizarre experiment halfway through the road, how miles in the middle of the road have been set to bounce limits. Indeed, it reduces the use of cars because people no longer dare to drive there. This, of course, also reduces the use of bicycles, as it is life - threatening to ride a bicycle there. If we want to reduce the use of cars there, then maybe the government has a plan to take this road up there at all, then the entire Rapla people train could be diverted, because the capital couldn't be any other way. Is that the plan? I really hope not. However, I would like to say here that indeed, this rail link is not too good now, it would certainly need [to be improved]. If you point out something positive, you could say that the investment amounts have been planned at least appropriately. But, regrettably, too little attention has been paid to regional development. I certainly cannot agree if we are trying to extra tax cars and roads without saying very clearly what this countryman will actually get in return for that. I'm sure the government has a serious point of view here today. I, too, hope that these words will reach the Minister and that clear conclusions will be drawn from it and that what the Union of Estonian Cities and Municipalities has proposed will also be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U244	Thank you very much. I'd like to see George Jaanson next.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U245	Thanks! Ladies and gentlemen, I was prompted by the question or theme setting I asked the Minister and the answer was that we could raise issues between the first and second readings or add to the amendments and improve the development plan for transport and mobility in this way. But unfortunately, there are no first and other readings in the development plans, but it is that we are giving the Minister and the Ministry input here on how to improve this development plan. If I start now, I will do it somewhat in the same key as my colleague, Raimond Kaljulaid, or I will show the same first picture. This is a nice picture, electric bicycles by the hand, people moving across Tartu Kaarsilla. But you can see a little river here. I would like to mention that boats often pass under the Kaarsilla, rowers also drive, rowers drive. In short, on-water light traffic. It would be nice if there was a rower image in this picture. But here's the thing. With regard to the transport development plan, it is very good that there has been talk about the development of sustainable transport, there has also been talk about a very important issue such as accessibility, about accessibility in the key to innovation, and this is a very important step forward. From the table of contents, we see that the sub-areas of the policies are roads, safe roads, rail traffic in a sustainable, safe and fast way. We are also talking about the maritime state and innovative and environmentally friendly maritime transport. Safety has no longer been mentioned in this regard. But the river traffic is completely out, even though we have quite a few navigable rivers. In this development plan, we are also talking about the rapid growth of the hobby and interest fleet. These ships are also being built very much and we very much support them. However, as in the case of transport and traffic, the more vehicles can be, the more important the issue of security and safety becomes. After all, there are easy-to-drawers on the rivers, which have not been addressed at all in the development plan. We have rowers and rowers, as well as other non-motorized hobbies who, in the meantime, also organise competitions, but in many ways train, drive for fun, and they are definitely a weaker party alongside motorized vehicles. This is a subject that needs to be included in the development plan, at least in my opinion. This is the message that I wanted to give the Ministry, the Minister, that the traditional movement on the water, thousands of years old, should also be discussed in the long term in terms of safety and the vision of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U246	Thank you. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U247	Thank you, Mr President. Good fellows! The development plan for transport and mobility, which we are discussing before us, contains an important message for the Tartu people: we aim to reach Tartu in one hour and 30 minutes by train from Tallinn by 2035. It is correct to state in the development plan that fast, dense and convenient train connections reduce the traffic load on the main roads and increase road safety. But how are things going with these good thoughts? How fast, dense and comfortable is the passenger train connection between Tallinn and Tartu? Investments to increase the speed of rail traffic have started to bear fruit, and the 2.5-hour train journey has become two hours. There is hope that, not in a very distant future, this distance will be traveled in just one hour and 30 minutes. There is, of course, room for improvement in terms of comfort. When Elron took over Tartu at the beginning of 2014, it was clear on the sixth day that evening trains from Tallinn to Tartu and Viljandi and in the morning from Tartu and Viljandi to Tallinn were small for passengers. We need longer formations. The new wagons from the factory and the new departure times added to the timetable alleviated the shortage of seats, but the increase in the number of passengers travelling by rail has once again led to a lack of seats on more popular journeys. Before the outbreak of the coronal apandemia, the number of rail passengers doubled compared to the time before the trains currently in use, yet no new trains have arrived in Estonia since 15 May 2014. It is therefore very welcome that a contract was signed in February for the purchase of six electric trains starting to run on the Tartu route. I encourage the government not to squandered and to use the contractual options for the purchase of 10 additional electric trains. In other words, the contract provides for the possibility of buying up to 10 more electric trains, in addition to six electric trains, at the currently agreed price. Let us take advantage of this opportunity. In order to bring commuters from cars and buses between the two cities and meet the environmental obligations assumed, the departure frequency of trains must be as high as the departure of cars on the Tallinn Tartu route. After all, it takes years for new trains to complete, and it is clear that a limited train fleet cannot provide competitive train traffic between two major cities. In 2009, when the State decided on the purchase of new trains, it provided for 18 electric trains and 10 additional diesel trains. Fortunately, then decision-makers had the wisdom to use options for the purchase of ten more diesel trains, and this year, 38 trains serve passengers across Estonia. Once again, I call on the government to find the money, use the options and buy ten more trains. In 2024, people who want to travel from Tartu to Tallinn in an hour and a half are much more than those who are taking a two-hour train journey today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U248	Thank you. Good Henn Põllaas, speaking on the ground? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U249	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you all for your speeches. For the very good ideas and suggestions we have heard here today. I agree with almost everyone and I can sign what I have heard because, unfortunately, this development plan is a declarative, sloganful, very little innovative, and a blink looking forward. But the saddest thing is that what we are doing here is debating, making proposals, putting forward good ideas on how to solve any problems or taking any new steps, is completely emptying, empty work and hard work, because development plans are being drawn up by the government. As we can see, the Minister is not even bothering to hear our thoughts about this. Development plans in different areas, which should coordinate the activities of our country and government on a long-term basis, such as the Transport and Mobility Development Plan 2021 to 2035, cannot simply be such that any political power is in the government, they are preparing it, and for more than ten years, everyone has to do everything according to it. These are important programmes, they are important goals and they should still be approved by the Riigikogu, not just shown to us in this way. As many topics have already been discussed here, being a member of the Estonian Aviation Support Group and also a chairman, I would like to focus my speech on this particular area. There are at least a hundred pages of text in this development plan, if we also look at these arrangements. Aviation, which is undoubtedly a very innovative mode of transport with a very large perspective and a future, has been wasted here, I would say, only a few pages. There's no mention of it anywhere else. This is extremely sad because the aviation sector, although, due to the corona crisis, it is, of course, one of the most hit areas before that [crisis] gave us 4 to 5% of GDP. Some 40,000 people were involved in this in various areas. This is an important area. If we look at what has been said in this development plan, we will essentially find here only descriptions of what has been done so far. Kihnus improved the runway, Pärnu Airport was reconstructed and some things are being done at Tallinn Airport. It is said that there is nothing to do in Tartu and Ruhnu, which is not true at all. And there is simply a slogan about how we must go to the Asian markets, how to ensure the competitiveness of the economy and how to increase the mobility of Estonian passengers. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U250	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U251	But there is virtually nothing practical about what is going to be done in more than ten years. Yes, the issue of unmanned aircraft is mentioned, but mostly it concerns the transport of luggage. What was I supposed to talk about? Should have talked about the air taxis that are already coming, already pilot projects are being launched in Estonia. [Speaking about] electric planes, the aircraft industry, design, maintenance. But here it is simply mentioned that it should be improved and everything, but already we already have very significant maintenance on a global scale. All of this should be encouraged. There is absolutely no talk about small aviation, not half a word. We have small airports, leaving these Rusty and Flint and Kärdlad aside, about, I may be wrong, 15 to 20 pieces, but these are private airports, enthusiasm-based. In Finland there are small airports, decent airports, not those where someone has simply mowed and marked the meadow, but good small airports 1500. Private aviation is a very fast-growing, very popular area around the world, which is also directly related to tourism. We're completely cut out of it. Jõhvi plans, yes, indeed, to build a more decent small airport, but there is little of it, because in fact, tens of thousands of air travelers would be coming from Finland alone, who would need not only a landing site but not necessarily an asphalt site, it could also be a decent meadow or whatever the corresponding services would be, so that they could move from there to a nearby settlement, can refuel whatever they want. But we don't have anything. If we look at other countries, we can see that this area is generating more and more revenue for businesses, municipalities, the state. For some reason, we cannot see or take advantage of these future developments. In this respect, I am extremely disappointed that, for the next ten years, there will be virtually no development in the aviation sector. The same problems arose here, after all, in the speeches of good colleagues in all other areas of transport. And by looking at the suggestions and involvement, it has been minimal and the proposals have not been taken into account. So I've been studying as a teacher, but I haven't done much of this job, so I'd give that development plan a "2" grade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U252	The speeches are over, but we have a procedural question. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U253	That's right. I have this procedural question about how I would be able to react and whether I would be able to respond in any way to the speech of the last warlord. I would just like to say on the negative talk he made about aviation and draw his attention to the opening, just this morning, of a new, extended runway at the airport in Pärnu, where the first private plane landed. So all these planes are very welcome in Pärnu. How can I pass this message on to Henn Põllaa in proper form?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U254	Not in the form of negotiations, in fact, because for this henn Põljaas should have touched on your speech by name or thematically. But now Henn has a procedural question on the field. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U255	Yeah, I'd love to do that in the procedure. Indeed, I know, Pärnu airport, it is a big step forward, it is very, very good. But as I said, this development plan describes the things that have already been done. All these things that have been done are good, but that is too little, given that the development plan is valid until 2035 and nothing else is in it anymore. So it's "2" after all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U256	This, too, was not a procedural question. But the negotiations are over unless the Minister wants to speak yet. Let us close this item. The third item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U257	We can move on to the fourth item on the agenda. To this end, the Government of the Republic has initiated the amendment of the Product Compliance Act and the related amendment of other Acts Act 372. We are at second reading and the rapporteur is Mr Raimond Kaljulaid, member of the Committee on Economic Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U258	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Indeed, we are talking about the second reading of the draft law amending the Product Compliance Act and related changes to other laws. The first reading of this draft took place on 19 May and no amendments were tabled by Riigikogu members, political groups or other committees by the deadline for submitting amendments, 2 June at 5.15 p.m. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the preparation for the second reading at its meeting of 31 May, 7 June, 11 June and 14 September, and the Commission decided to propose two amendments to the draft. Both of these are proposals from the lead committee, and both proposals received the Commission's unanimous support. The Committee on Economic Affairs proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for the second reading by 22 September, the second reading to be closed, and when the second reading is closed, the Commission's proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for the third reading by 29 September and to hold a final vote. All these decisions were consensual. I thank and am ready to answer all your questions about this exceptionally exciting draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U259	Yeah, but it's so exciting that there are no questions. Everything's blown away. Thank you. Then we can review... Uh, let's negotiate first. Would you like to negotiate? None. Then we can examine the amendments. As has already been mentioned, two amendments were tabled and both were tabled by the lead committee. The first amendment is tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and has been fully taken into account by the commission. Nobody wants to vote on it. Let's keep going. The second amendment is also tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the commission has taken full account of it. We have examined the amendments and the second reading of Bill 372 has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U260	Let's move on to agenda number five. This is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Citizenship initiated by the Isamaa Group. The rapporteur is Urmas Reinsalu, member of the Riigikogu. Please! [[Urmas Reinsalu is not in the hall.]] Oops! Let's take a three-minute break. Does anyone call him? A little break taken by the manager is over, and all the people we need have arrived within that time. Let's move on, 388 SE and Urmas Reinsalu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U261	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good people's representatives! Sorry about the last moment. There had to be some serious consultations before this draft could be dealt with. I hope to get stronger support for this draft. And I hope that these consultations [bearing fruit] and those who hesitate will seriously think about the positive aspects of this draft. The draft is actually very short and simple as a legal novel. The idea is essentially that if, as a general principle at present, the Citizenship Act provides that persons who have repeatedly committed crimes are not granted Estonian citizenship under naturalisation, except exceptionally by decision of the government, but these exceptional times have rarely been, then now, during this government, they have started to come up with a series of exceptions. It is a series of decisions that the government has repeatedly punished criminals by naturalisation and exceptionally granted citizenship. Consequently, our proposal is simple and unambiguous: to provide for a situation that precludes a discretionary decision previously adopted in the original text of the Citizenship Act, according to which persons who have been subject to repeated criminal penalties for intentional crimes are not granted citizenship and everything. Period. The controversy has opened up over it. The government has put forward rather dim arguments, as if it were an anti-constitutional position. The representatives of the government also relied on it in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, indicating that the Supreme Court had, at the beginning of this century, stated in one of its decisions concerning the granting of weapons permits to persons who have been convicted in court, that there should be a possibility of a right of weight as to whether a person is given a weapons permit as a hunting weapon, other handguns or not. I would like to emphasise this: the starting point for the initiators is that these issues are not mechanically comparable. We have no case law in Estonia in this logic. This does not concern the Citizenship Act. Secondly, I will read to you the absolute bans, not the weight decision, but the absolute bans on granting citizenship in our current law. In these cases it is not possible to reach a decision on consideration. Namely, if a person does not comply with the constitutional order of Estonia or does not comply with Estonian law, citizenship is not granted by naturalisation and everything. There's no way to consider it. Nor in the case of those whom this government has considered to be good. There have been a number of these and we have had some questions about this. The Minister of the Interior has justified why persons who have repeatedly committed crimes against property and persons are granted citizenship through naturalisation by a government decision. After all, they do not, of course, comply with Estonian law. If we go ahead with the logic that the government has taken that everything should have the right to weigh, then the right to weigh should also be granted, for example, whether to give citizenship to a person who has acted against the security of the Estonian state and its state or who has worked in the service of foreign intelligence. Then it would be the same logic, it should be considered, because it is like a human constitutional right. Our position is absolutely different: citizenship is not a human right, citizenship is not a social right. Citizenship is a matter of political power. Persons fulfil certain conditions and the country has an unambiguous subjective basis for defining the rules for granting, processing and withdrawing citizenship. Let us remember what the country's characteristics are. They are territory, state power and civil society. And on these issues, when we speak of a sovereign state, the state must have the right to define it in the text of the law. In the past, I have actually come by looking at the practice and suggestions of the Ministry of the Interior to propose very strange applications that did not go through because of my opposition. Thus, by way of exception to the government, it was intended to grant citizenship to a criminal who was punished for rioting on Bronze Night or, for example, to give the killer nationality. Such strange dynamics and practices have also arisen during this government. I am not going to be ashamed, and I honestly admit that this legislative act is our idea to block the values of this government's citizenship policy, the understatement of value. I would like to ask all the Members of this House to support this with common accord. It is constitutional, it is reasonable and it carries on this will or understanding, which is identical in the law: repeatedly punished criminals should not receive Estonian citizenship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U262	Thank you very much. It is now possible to ask the rapporteur questions. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U263	Thank you. Honourable waitress! The original version of the law, adopted in 1995, also did not provide for the possibility of granting citizenship to persons who repeatedly committed intentional crimes. This was the case until 2006, when the Coalition of the Reform Party, the Centre Party and the EKRE changed it. Do you know what the arguments were when it was changed in 2006 and the granting of Estonian citizenship to such criminals was made legal and possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U264	Thank you. The answer is very uniform and simple: it is actually because of the ad valorem relativism was in fact everything relative, everything depends on the circumstances of the operation, and everything can be weighed and reconsidered. Such ad valorem relativism was placed in a legal form which claimed that persons should have the right as a fundamental right to request that their nationality be considered. We see, in fact, that this ad valorem relativism is also creeping farther away during the current liberal coalition. In this Chamber, a draft law relating to the issuing of visas was pushed through, in the same way [in the same way], that there must be a right to challenge it before the courts, but the sovereign decision-making powers of the State were thereby weakened. Instead, the European Union's procedures and rules are a pretext. I would like to point out that, in the case of ad valorem relativism, the problem that we already have is that we have a principle: the perpetrator of an anti-State crime, whatever the time it takes to commit this crime, must not be a judge, a defence officer or a prison guard in the public service. It has also been asked whether it should be changed, that should be the place of consideration. We also have another area where it is clearly stated that there is no place to weigh, namely sexual criminals, paedophiles, who, regardless of when their offence has been committed, must not work in child-related and child-based institutions. There is no mention that there should be a place of consideration, whether there was a smaller act or not. Indeed, [the Commission] began to tell us about theft of apples. The representative of the government wondered if the person who stole an apple stole an apple once stole an apple another time and now does not get Estonian citizenship. Of course, it is sophistication. In Estonia, it is actually a crime. In the case of a low-value property offence, it starts at EUR 200, that is the limit, and, of course, it is not a question of any kind of apple.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U265	There's been a procedure. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U266	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I would point out to the author that there was no EKRE in 2006. EKRE, the Estonian Conservative People's Party, was introduced in 2012 when a new programme, a new party statute, was adopted. And the People's Union, which was present at the time and belonged to the government, as one of the parties, was involved in the birth and activity of the Estonian Conservative People's Party. So please use the names correctly.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U267	And the other procedure has come to this end. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U268	Yeah, I have a procedural specification. We have always used the message of the Fatherland and the name of the Fatherland here in common language, and it has been used by the honourable author of the reply, be it the Fatherland and Res Publica Union from the past or by the Fatherland Union or any of its predecessors. All these good deeds and sins are now attributed to the Fatherland in this language, which is why I deliberately used the name EKRE, because EKRE is also the legal successor of the People's Union. And our practice could be that we behave in the same way for all parties, so we talk about the actions of the People's Union as the actions of the EKRE, or we do not talk about the acts of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union as the acts of the Fatherland, because we have also had changes of name and statute.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U269	Yeah. Neither, of course, was procedural, but let's continue with the questions. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U270	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I, too, actually ask about this provision of the Citizenship Act, which was unfortunately born in 2006, be it the EKRE or the People's Union, alongside the Reform Party and the Centre Party, on the basis of three political parties, that was undeniably the case. You opened up these problems a little bit, but maybe you would open up this issue in the context of national security, because you already marked the way in which one of the characters [citizenship] who broke down 2007 and after that Tallinn society was tried to give it to [citizenship]. How could this affect our national security in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U271	Thank you. Indeed, the issues of succession also relate to our national security. In specialist literature and international law, the succession of rights in Russia has been analysed for a long time in the context of the Soviet Union, whether Russia is a full member of the Soviet Union's right to succeed, here we have the question of the People's Union or the EKRE, and legally, of course, it is a complete succession of rights, but it is essentially a matter of the top-up of obligations and also of political responsibility. In the case of Russia's succession, it has been established in the specialist literature that this is, however, a partial succession. However, as far as proprietary decisions are concerned, indeed, with the decision of the Paris Debt Club, which Russia itself recognises, Russia fully recognises all the commitments that the Soviet Union has entered into. As far as the security aspect of this citizenship is concerned, I believe that this is, above all, a matter of value. Indeed, when we talk repeatedly about the persons who have been punished and about giving them citizenship by naturalisation, it is, in principle, possible to develop this practice to a very large extent. And it's definitely, I think, more of a constitutional culture issue. If the question is whether this circle of persons poses a threat, in contrast to the fact that it also gains political rights, electoral rights, right to stand as candidates and voting rights, I do not think it poses such a dramatic threat as a separate group. However, it is certainly undermining or frailing our constitutional value area if we consider it appropriate to give citizenship to this circle of persons by naturalisation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U272	Ivi Eenmaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U273	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I have a matter of principle or principle for you, dear waitress. The Fatherland or the Fatherland Union, the IRL, whatever it is called, has been a member of the government for decades, and for the last four years you were yourself Minister of Foreign Affairs. You've been acting Minister of Justice before, and so on. Why are you raising this question now? If you had formed a government, why did you not make this amendment? It turns out at the moment that in 2006, there was an ugly crime, that all this was allowed to happen, and now that the new government has been in office for eight months, you are raising this issue again. Why didn't you change that law before?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U274	Thank you. For a very simple reason. We came to power in 2007 and, of course, such things could not happen if either IRL or Isamaa were in government. I went to sleep with a calm heart every night. I knew if the Fatherland was in government, we wouldn't let such things pass. Suddenly, though, things began to happen with negative effects when the Fatherland was no longer in government. You started, like I said, making serial decisions, the government started making decisions that weren't made during the previous Home Affairs Minister. Then they were not brought to government, but now they were brought to government as a series. This is certainly a legal measure that we can use in a democratic country, an opportunity to put forward a draft law to prevent the legislator from taking steps by this government, which is contrary to our approach to value. Who remembers, when it was our question to the Minister of the Interior, we warned that we would definitely not leave it alone and called on him to refrain from such practice. Unfortunately, the following months and weeks have shown that the government has not, on various internal motives, avoided it. If it had done so, it is possible that there would not have been a need for a separate legislation. But now it is our legitimate form of protest so that the government cannot apply this approach and do so at one accelerating pace.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U275	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U276	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good waitress! Perhaps you can also recall these common governmental agendas, where the group always stressed that once again we have been sneaked in by the kind of actors that should not have, let us say, citizenship. And I would also like to say a small clarification to my university lecturer Mart Helme: I think the National United Party Isamaa, there was also the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, which then later joined the Patriotic Union and the Patriotic Party. Isn't EKRE part of the Fatherland?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U277	Thank you. Yeah, that's a perfectly correct reference. In fact, the National United Party Isamaa was born in 1992 when several other parties joined the EKRE. This is a fact known from history that is legally perfectly correct. Now, what concerns this reference. Indeed, it was when we were also in the previous government, where we argued through the cabinet's agenda and from the former Minister of the Interior all the time came the so-called initials [papers] for repeatedly punished criminals. Really, for a very long time, the same killer's case revolved around. It was said, then, as if apologizing, that when he committed this murder, he killed a mobman. But I have to admit, crime is still a crime, taking a human life. This certainly should not be the basis for us to compromise on our approach to value. And we didn't think it was reasonable. We rejected those proposals that were presented for years, literally years and weekly. It was such a conveyor. Whoever was in that government or government at the time remembers this context. This context has a very long tail in that sense; it has not really emerged here in any way as such a random ethos.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U278	Turns out nowadays everyone wants to be a little bit of an EKRE. Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U279	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I will now turn to the matter of party genealogy. And I am very pleased that such a bill has come up. It is a crime that people from such backgrounds are being picked up on board and given them a strong nationality with flowers and drum rolls. It's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... And thank you for pointing that out. But I would now like to ask you about the practice in the neighbouring countries. As Minister of Foreign Affairs, you have definitely been around Latvia and elsewhere. Is there any other way to force criminals with flowers and drums to become members of the household? I know it's the usual left-wing way in Sweden to raise our electra, that in a few years we'll take the characters from Afghanistan, give us citizenship, and... How else is there an eye left on the practice of neighbouring countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U280	Thank you. This situation is very diverse, so I think we will find extreme examples that could be used illustratively, precisely from the wall to the wall, there is no question. But I think it's important here to show it, as the good questioner correctly pointed out, that this is a matter of value. This is an ideological matter of value, and there is no prescriptive or formalistic claim that that is the way it should be in the legal approach. The values that give us the ground or base of the Citizenship Act were in the original text such that repeat criminals do not receive citizenship. Then, in 2006, it was changed, so-called 'conditional', and now, under its rule, the practice of giving citizenship to repeat criminals has begun to accelerate. Our position is [various]. We will certainly find democratic cultural countries in Europe and the world where there is no such opportunity. But perhaps there are also countries that may not pay any attention to the criminality of a person, especially in countries with multiple citizenship, I do not rule that out either.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U281	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U282	Yeah. Well, it's nice that our conservative half-brothers are concerned about our historical origins and attitudes. We are not ashamed of our origins. But I have another question. Correct me if I am wrong, but memory tells me that in 2002 a new version of the Local Government Election Act was adopted, which gave all residents of the Republic of Estonia the right to participate in municipal elections, on the basis of a residence permit for people living here. And the Fatherland Union was also part of the government at that time. The Fatherland League, is it the Fatherland now? You see, this kind of story, you can read it in our paper, that if your group members fall off the plane, who will survive? The Fatherland will survive. Such a little funny story. But for what reasons did the Pro Patria Union then decide to grant the right to vote to all the people who live here permanently?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U283	Thank you. That's right, there isn't one in Latvia. But we still have to go to genetics. In this case, your man of justice was a very large activist, actually, I remember which end of the pipe depends on which end of the tube to look at it from one end of the telescope, from the other end of the microscope. But his pressure in this House was quite dramatic, I remember who remembers the verbatims of making these decisions and choices. In fact, the head of state at that time played an undoubtedly role in these matters. So there's no way we can ignore that either. But I think that our experience is, in fact, in this sense, a good questioner has the right indication that, if any rights have been granted, we can discuss it academically in terms of how sensible it was to grant these rights. And to say that it's possible to take back some right, it's actually in reality, it's like putting toothpaste in a tube. I am glad that the good questioner himself [created from his plan]. If there was a question about the fact that EKRE must have said a few years ago that it would withdraw its right to vote from non-citizens, then in an interview in Russian, Mart, you yourself said that you did not have that plan anymore. So sometimes with toothpaste, it's easy to let it out of the tube, but it's impossible to put it back.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U284	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U285	Thank you. Since the Chairman of the Fatherland here is trying to incriminate the EKRE of some once-familiar People's Union step and position from a time when EKRE didn't even exist yet and no one ever dreamed that it would ever happen, I say that in 2017 Isamaa was quite real. As a result of this same malicious speech, I recall that the Fatherland 2 programme: 0 came out, which meant that the population of Estonians and Estonia should be raised to two million as a matter of urgency. This was done under the law of citizenship, and the only way to raise it would have been to take immigrants in completely indiscriminately and declare them our citizens, but there would have been those criminals and repeatedly punished by tens of thousands.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U286	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U287	I'm glad you've changed your mind today.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U288	Thank you, Henn, for this benevolent commendation! Of course, there was no plan in the Fatherland when we were talking about the survival of our population, to achieve it by means of some mass migration technique, much less with the background of a good questioner. What did Jaan Tõnisson say in his day? Seven children to the Estonian family! This was Tõnisson's appeal to the people of Estonia in such rigour and integrity. If we look at this, yes, I must admit, Henn, your position is correct here: Fatherland does not accept that Estonians are a people with a shrinking population. This is not our approach. Our approach is one and clear: we must resist the trends regarding the emigration of Estonians, which concerns ive, and which concerns the fact that the number of healthy years of life we have is so low compared to the other peoples of Europe. There must be more of us, the Estonian people must be more numerous. It's our pathos we believe in. We do not want to base such a doctrine of sustainable shrinking and silent fading. That's what we say everywhere. And that is what we do in our politics. If you ask me what the population of Estonia is, I will answer you, Henn. The population of Estonia must be so small that Estonians will remain in the majority of the country after generations.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U289	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U290	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I have absolutely no criticism of this draft because I myself supported it in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. But since it's gone down here to settle the accounts, I'd still ask you a more specific question about the thoughts and plans of the Fatherland. As we know, there are many people in Estonia who are born here, are of a foreign-language nationality, own a grey passport, etc., who do not really have a country other than Estonia. Question: What does the Fatherland plan to do with these people in the sense of the law of citizenship, whether or not to give it to them? And I have a request that you do not answer as Kaja Kallas did in Question Time today: "What do you think?"
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U291	Thank you. The Fatherland does not plan to change the principles of the Citizenship Act. All people who comply with the naturalisation rules laid down in our law and are loyal to the constitutional order of Estonia when they pass the language and constitutional knowledge test are actually entitled to apply for this citizenship. As regards our citizenship, it has been misleadingly argued that the rules for naturalisation are too strict, these thresholds. No, I'm not saying that, they're perfectly fit and moderate in comparison to Europe. It would certainly not be appropriate to withdraw from them. So our plans with these people are that we can see that demographic dynamics will undoubtedly reduce the proportion of these stateless people in Estonia. Just younger people take citizenship and the proportion of older people who do not have citizenship is declining due to demographic trends.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U292	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U293	Thank you very much, manager. Good Urmas! I guess that party genetics thing is what it is. On the one hand, I am very pleased with the law that you have brought here, and on the other, I am delighted that you acknowledge: this Fatherland, the previous Fatherland Union, or the IRL, or how it was, has been a happy ancestor of you. Here's a question like that. After all, it is clearly perceived that there is a deeply unnatural situation in which we have the President's essence of choosing foreigners, stateless persons, their children, and in a situation where we have liberalism on such a level that we recognise all kinds of things that are marriages that are not marriages, four women on one man, four men on one woman, etc. Wouldn't the time be so far away that your party is willing to consider the idea that we could make sense of the electoral law, so that in Estonia voters would be only citizens of the Estonian state and also at local level?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U294	Thank you. As far as this party genesis is concerned, it seems as if we were here at the Conference of the Party Institute of History, where good questioners have a great interest in such a party genesis. But, of course, there must also be some answers to these questions and an understanding of these things. Now, as far as the presidential election procedure is concerned, the context of which is that the Centre Party and the EKRE have today initiated the amendment of the Constitutional Amendment Act, yes, the Fatherland has not foreseen that the initiative to directly elect the President will be realised. This is not in our programming positions. As for the fact that the councils are elected by non-citizens, permanent residents, and through this the next stage we have a voter elected to the electoral body, I do not remember that this would have been very dramatic before the presidential elections, or that it would have been said that the electoral body should necessarily be avoided, because there are Russian citizens or, I don't know, UK citizens who have an apartment or who live in Tallinn or somewhere else, are going to do something through voters. I think that all the facts must certainly be taken into account in constitutional terms. On the contrary, I believe that the presidential system needs reform, and in my time as Minister of Justice, I also proposed this. But with this approach and the reference, I agree that we must also, when making our constitutional choices, take into account also demographic trends, bring them down to a relatively timeless perspective, including the perspective of the century, the two centuries. It must be our time horizon for making constitutional choices. We must be guided by the fact that, as I said, the survival of a nation state must not become conditional in the light of our perhaps good-faith decision, which we have made naive. This is a sign that, of course, we must not be naive and alien in terms of citizenship and migration. For this, fate punishes us very harshly, and for that we can also do a very large disservice to the generations of unborn Estonians.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U295	Thank you very much. No more questions for the waitress. We can call Marko Storm, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as co-rapporteur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U296	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I am the rapporteur for the Commission on the same issue that was already dealt with by the initiator of the draft. I can bring to you the views expressed in committee and the decisions put to the vote. Indeed, on 21 September the Committee on Constitutional Affairs met and discussed this issue. In addition to the members of the committee, Kalle Grünthal, Sulev Kannimäe, Andrei Korobenik, Urmas Reinsalu and Mart Võrkaeva, people were invited in-depth knowledge of the field. It is appropriate to note that Ruth Annus from the Department of Citizenship and Migration Policy of the Ministry of the Interior, which she is chairing, was present with Counselor Siiri Leskov. By going through the process of this debate, being as specific as possible, I say that, in the case of a specific draft, Ruth Annus has provided explanations on how this process has progressed over time. A number of dates were already touched by previous speakers, both Mr Reinsalu and Mr Seeder. Indeed, the Citizenship Act was adopted in 1995 in such a way that the law, as currently provided for in § 21, did not exist. However, in 2006 the Citizenship Act was complemented with the principle of giving the Government of the Republic discretion. The reference to it, the origins or the reason for it, has been a possible contradiction with the Constitution and the fact that the absence of such a decision may be "in proportion to the degree of punishment and the nature of the punishment. This right has been introduced in 2006. Okay. According to technical data, Ruth Annus has indicated in answering the questions how much the government has exercised the special right under § 21. Over 30 times in the last five years, it has received a positive realization, or people have received citizenship despite their previous actions and, of course, punishment for extinction. And in more than 90 cases it has not been obtained. I understand that, in the case of Members of the Commission, at least this is my sense of feeling, and also, in the light of the protocol, it seems that this has not been so much a value-based issue, but it has been based on what the parties concerned have referred to precisely in the area of constitutional potential interference. The chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also, I believe, been guided by the fact that there is no conflict with the Constitution. Nearly everyone present at the Commission meeting has spoken. Kalle Grüntha has, as he said before, been supporting the bill. He has also pointed out that he considers that there is no contradiction with the Constitution, as Mr Reinsalu said, and citizenship is not a commodity to be traded. As Chairman of the Committee of Toomas Kivimägi, he has asked whether the government has also known about the 34 people who have acquired citizenship despite their previous offences, how their legal conduct has taken place at a later stage. To put it simply, have these people committed new crimes or are they rehabilitated people? Ruth Annus has responded that unfortunately, the Ministry of the Interior does not have this ability and also the power to control the future behaviour of these people. We can expect, even though this may not be the case, that people have become 'abiding by the law'. At least there's nothing to do with these things at a later stage. In addition, Toomas Kivimägi has asked what people and what nationality they have had in the case of persons applying for their citizenship. In response, Ruth Annus has stated that they were predominantly stateless persons or representatives of the Russian Federation. Okay. I guess that's it for a substantive discussion. I can say the proposals that have gone to the decision. It was proposed to put the topic on the agenda by 29 (there was consensus). The draft was proposed to be rejected, supported and supported by Sulev Kannimäe, Toomas Kivimägi, Andrei Korobenik, Mart Võrklaev and opposed by Kalle Grünthal and Urmas Reinsalu. Originally Toomas Kivimägi was appointed as rapporteur, but yesterday, at the meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs on the 28th day, it was changed and I was appointed (there was also a consensus). Ladies and gentlemen, I will answer the questions, all of them now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U297	Thank you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U298	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! The decision to reject means that the current regime is good enough and the status quo clearly satisfies these decision-makers. But my question is about discretion. Was the discussion opened and asked whether, for example, some regional, national or cultural offences could be acceptable in a Member State of the European Union, e.g. Estonia? We can't blame Eskimo for stealing apple because it's pretty difficult for him to steal it from somewhere, but, for example, some honour debts, honour killings or other cultures, they kind of do or, let's say, who steals horses and that's not like an aggravating circumstance. How was that discretionary debate you had there?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U299	Specifically on these issues, at least on the basis of the protocol and also in contact with the people of the Registry [I can say], there was no such approach. However, it is repeatedly pointed out that, in the course of the decision under consideration, it is the nature of the offence, the time it takes place and the subsequent behaviour, as far as it is capable of being recovered in any way. But, yes, let's say, the more specific examples you referred to were not discussed and, to my knowledge, it is not seen in the protocol either.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U300	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U301	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The purpose of this draft is that people who have committed crimes intentionally and repeatedly should not be granted Estonian citizenship. I have also listened very carefully to your presentation. You indicated that this draft could not be supported because Toomas Kivimägi, as its chairman, and you, i.e. members of the Reform and Centre Party, were of the opinion that this was perhaps contrary to the Constitution. It was like that, wasn't it? I would even believe you, dear waitress, but the question is that, in fact, it could have been checked in the Commission at second or third reading. But the fact that you reject him immediately and exclude him from the bill shows that, given the fact that there have been individuals among the members of the Centre Party and the Reform Party who commit crimes, willful, then you have the propensity and the desire to actually promote... criminal activity. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Tell me that my...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U302	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U303	... statements are wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U304	The answer is simple and concise: this argument does not hold true.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U305	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U306	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In fact, I would like to touch on this issue of value-relativism. In this way, we can say that any action is not an obstacle to us, as it may be a violation of a person's constitutional rights. Urmas Reinsalu's presentation made it very clear that citizenship is neither a human right nor a social right. Did you pay attention to this at the committee meeting? Apart from this [the draft] at first reading, it does give me the impression that the Reform Party and the Centre Party consider it very normal that criminal criminals receive Estonian citizenship.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U307	Thanks to the questioner! No, really, it's been touched. And as far as possible interference or inconsistency with the Constitution is concerned, Ruth Annus has also pointed out that we would actually receive a final response to this only if the Chancellor of Justice applied for the constitutional review procedure to be opened or the persons turned to court, as has been the case in different cases over time. But, of course, neither government representatives nor legislator have ever claimed that obtaining citizenship should be a logical expectation in any way. That's right, it's been seen here before.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U308	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U309	Thank you. I ask you to understand how this debate took place in the Commission and what motives were finally voted on. Since the representatives of the Reform Party and the Centre Party were very concerned that a possible law could conflict with the Constitution when we adopt it, and also received explanations at the committee meeting, and finally decided to vote against it, I understand that the representative of the Reform Party and the Central Party continues to believe that this law, if we adopt this draft, is contrary to the Constitution. Because other motives were not revealed in your debate, other reasons and obstacles. Is that the main and only obstacle that these ambassadors voted against?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U310	Yes, in fact, those references to this 2001 judgment, the Supreme Court ruling concerning the arms law and the proportionality of the sentence and the infringement, went through Mr Reinsalu's speech. This was certainly one of the factors on which the Commission based its assessments. And the comparison of this particular issue with the acquisition of citizenship seemed appropriate to the Members of the Commission. As has already been said, 4: 2 votes in favour of rejecting this draft was proposed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U311	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. We can open negotiations. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U312	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to support the draft submitted by the Isamaa Group concerning the granting of Estonian citizenship to persons who have committed a criminal offence intentionally and repeatedly. In this way, we can end the situation and the practice that we are currently carrying out in the Republic of Estonia. I would like to dispel these fears and doubts, which have been repeatedly expressed, and which the previous speaker here pointed out about the debate in the Commission, as if a draft had been tabled, if it were to become a law, contrary to the constitution. Well, it's not. The same procedure, exactly the same procedure, was in force in the Republic of Estonia for 11 years between 1995 and 2006, without any constitutional changes. There have been no constitutional changes. And the same time we adopt it is in accordance with the current constitution. These fears can be boldly put in the background; this should not be an obstacle to any member of the Riigikogu dealing with this bill and finally voting in favour. It is very important that we do not change the fundamental principles of the Citizenship Act. The Fatherland has always stood for this. Throughout the ages, various coalitions have wanted to change these principles, but we believe that the citizenship law adopted in 1995 is appropriate in every way, it has worked very well and we should stick to it. It's survived the time tests. We can talk today about multi-citizenship, or also about this issue, which is very controversial and which has been the subject of very many debates here. Should the Estonian state have the purpose of making sure that everyone living here is Estonian citizens and has Estonian citizenship? The only and main objective should not be to make citizens of non-loyalty residents by any means whatsoever. It is also a matter of national security. If it is a person who is not loyal to the Republic of Estonia, there is no point in imposing on him a forceful citizenship. Perhaps it will be righter, fairer and more transparent then that he is a Finnish citizen or a Russian citizen or a citizen of a Spanish state and can live in Estonia peacefully. All human rights are respected here, there are no problems. It does not have to be the goal that all people living here, by any method, make the Republic of Estonia citizens. This is a question of political power, because it gives us the opportunity to form political power in the Republic of Estonia and we also give the right to vote. But there is no need to give the right to vote to the non-loyalty people to whom we grant citizenship. And there is no need for individuals who have committed crimes repeatedly to be granted citizenship. The current Citizenship Act also allows the Government of the Republic to grant citizenship to a person for special services. There's a chance, so there's a free hand. If there really is a person who has special services in front of the Republic of Estonia, then the opportunity to give him citizenship will continue to exist, no one will take that opportunity away from anywhere. So I believe that we are currently undermining the sovereign decision-making power of the Estonian state here. If I look at other initiatives that the current government has taken... Can I have some more time, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U313	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U314	... even this draft, which we have discussed here, concerning the fact that the Government of the Republic may refuse to issue visas and the right of appeal to people, is actually a very dangerous proposal. Giving people the right to challenge must remain the sovereign decision of the Republic of Estonia and the Estonian Government. The Estonian Government does not need to justify this. Its justification leads to a number of other problems and risks, as it can be very sensitive, including security arguments, etc. If we start discussing these issues in court and before the public, it will certainly damage the security of Estonia. There has been no need for this so far for decades. Why should there be such a need now? The same is true of the Citizenship Act. There is no need for this and this would cloud our citizenship policy. Since this practice, which is repeatedly granted citizenship to persons who have been convicted of criminal offences, has increased the number of people to whom it has been granted, it is very practical now to come back to the earlier regime and to the previously applicable law that justified itself in every way. We don't have that chance. People can obtain citizenship by naturalisation if they pass all the necessary and compulsory stages and, normally, receive citizenship or special services if the Government of the Republic considers it necessary, this possibility remains. That's enough. I have a suggestion, ladies and gentlemen. We support this good draft, we will finish the first reading, and perhaps we will make it even better during the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U315	Thank you. There's no more calls. But Urmas Reinsalu is a procedural question. Are you sure it's procedural? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U316	In the interests of the studiogram and in order to inform the President of the sitting so as to avoid misinformation, I ask whether the President of the sitting is aware that, in fact, in local elections, the right to vote was granted to foreigners as the legislator of the Riigikogu by the Act of the First Local Government Council adopted in June 1993. And indeed, in 1993 the members of the then electoral union of the Fatherland, but also the members of the election union of the sure home, which was formed by the Estonian Maariit, which in 2000 joined the Estonian People's Union and also became the legal successor of your home party.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U317	Thank you. This is a much-needed historical clarification. Yeah, the manager knew that. All right. The commission has proposed to reject the draft at first reading. And that's what we're gonna vote on. Before we vote, we'll make a hall call. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft proposal of the commission to reject 388 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U318	43 delegates supported the proposal, 23 were opposed to the proposal, with no abstentions. The bill has been rejected.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U319	Let's move on to item six. This is the draft law amending the Tobacco Act initiated by Tarmo Kruusimäe, Raivo Tamme, Üllar Saaremäe, Madis Millingu, Kert Kingo, Kalle Grünthali, Paul Puustusmaa and Andres Metsoja. Tarmo Kruusimäe, member of the Riigikogu, will present the draft. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U320	Thank you, good vice chairman. All of you who are happy to be in this hall, but also those who are forced to be in the office, as well as the people who are watching us! We have a debate in the Riigikogu of great value, always having debates on important topics. The debate, as such, always opens up for us at second reading. Despite the fact that perhaps we will not have this debate as it is at second reading, we will have all these opportunities that society can also say its opinions. At this point in time, it is simply that the initiators of the draft will initiate the draft, then the Ministry will draw up the government's position and remain that way. We simply have overruled the tobacco law. Perhaps the moments in which real life, real life, is constantly evolving are understandable, but the people who give the government a position have stuck to puritanic positions. The initiators of the draft act listed five main problems. Three of these five main problems are those which, politely speaking, have been adjusted to this through the speeches of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the various people, the Minister of Social Affairs, the various chairmen of the Committee on Social Affairs. The first amendment is that, in the case of tastes of e-liquids, [prohibited] and that the finished production of sweets and soft drinks [imitation of tastes] is prohibited. The problem was that if they imitate the tastes of sweets and soft drinks, they are attractive to children. Therefore, this first amendment is exactly what these people have said. In addition, we also bring here the fact that different alternative tobacco products do not lead to passive smoking. I can also stress that the various alternative tobacco products are safe in that I do not know of any cases where, for example, [their] burning or e-cigarette would have resulted in a fire. Well, that's what's happened to regular cigarettes. If we consider that the value of one human life is somewhere in the million euros, we can count on how much money we would actually have saved as a country. The second amendment is requirements for the appearance of packages. Here, too, we have been based on what has been said by the various important officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs, [and that is] that the designs should not be attractive to children. Products intended for adults shall not have toys [images] or animation. The third and important [amendment] and what would have needed to be regulated yesterday are novel products: tobacco-free nicotine pads, those placed under the lip. There is no regulation in these cases. They have not been regulated in different countries because they are "consumer goods," just as if they went and bought soap or other things, tools. However, we in Estonia have this problem. Many of the members of the Committee on Social Affairs [visited] saw that the rigidities varied [to a wide extent]. If the question here was to stick to 25 milligrams, then I say 25 milligrams is a strong tobacco product. One of them is red and the other is yellow. The dromedar is shown on one, and the drone is not shown on the other. It needs regulation because today the Estonian market already has 90, 100, 150 and 300 milligrams [nicotine-containing products]. So it's easier to explain to you: if you take one strong cigarette, which is 25 milligrams, this one tobacco-free nicotine pillow is equal to 100 milligrams, that is four cigarettes at a time. This means that we should have regulated it yesterday. For the initiators of the bill and, of course, also members of the smoke-free Estonian Support Group of the Riigikogu, this is a problem and we have tried to solve it here, but we have not yet reached a good solution. The fourth major problem at this point is distance selling. Yesterday we formed an e-commerce support group in the Riigikogu. Now we should look at how well we are allowed to treat different entrepreneurship equally. Today I asked the Minister for answers, I didn't get any answers. It was a very strange situation where he said that in the case of alternative tobacco products [in the case of], which, by not creating a passive smoker from a companion, does not leave the smell of clothes and hair, it is dangerous that nicotine addiction may occur. But you can order a regular cigarette from an e-shop, you can order alcohol from an e-shop. Perhaps if people want to reorganize their lives so that their loved ones live in a better environment and choose an alternative tobacco product that they like, it will not be possible to get it. We have a lot of people who may not be able to go all the time to a special store in a county centre, but I would remind you that before that people had the opportunity to order from an e-shop. It happened to me, I'm talking about my experience, very often the fact that I didn't have an ID card with me. When the package came to me, there was nothing, I had to go home to get that ID card, otherwise I couldn't get the goods. Fifth and bigger change. It is incomprehensible to hide the products under the counter. One way or another, it carries that idea. But I would like to bring one of the lines from Mikhail Stalnukhin's report, where he spoke in the same way when we dealt with the tobacco law, that we previously put on tobacco packages these ugly pictures, because according to the studies, it was supposed to have a 33% effect. Then we decided that we would hide all these products in a drawer, the effect could be 7%. It's not really 40%, it's 7%. However, if the [package] is covered from the front, it will not affect consumers but those poor workers who are in this environment and who need to see these ugly pictures. The fact that we have things hidden in a drawer has also created the possibility that today we will be able to get nicotine-free tobacco products from smaller, perhaps unholy shops, which I have already talked about here. The pictures presented by the smoke-free Estonian Support Group and the initiators to the Social Affairs Committee are among the materials, so you can see what we are talking about. There was usually little talk in the Commission. As usual, the Ministry always says they have a plan to come up with this bill someday and they'll deal with it. Looking at where most of the work has been done by consumers, I call [so] the consumer association and their representatives, what the consumer vision might be, it is considered that we would really want to regulate it ourselves. This constant restructuring of adult lives, the setting of rules for them, is extremely strange. Why the need? I wouldn't be talking about sitting in the backseat. At times, I feel like we're just sitting here quietly with a scooter while the others are driving a car. That's what it feels like. And when I referred today to Minister for Social Affairs, Tanel Kiige, that we do not treat all the different e-commerce companies equally, he had such a great idea that he should initiate a discussion in order to ban them too. Good Tanel Rock, who maybe you're watching this [session]: Don't learn from the worst. The Minister for Social Prohibition was once the one who really screwed up this whole tobacco law because they thought it was a good thing. When we say that the most important factor is healthy years of life, and this concept, if it is still important for us to reduce passive smoking, if we have the idea that tobacco products and alternative tobacco products are not available to minors, then I do not see any reason why the large Chamber of the Riigikogu could not hold debates on this topic at second reading in 2021. Because right now, I repeat, the initiators of the bill have made a draft. The best employees of the Ministry of Social Affairs, who are there in their best competence and skill, have provided answers that are not better than all things, and have decided that no change in the draft is now required to be regulated, but we are waiting for the Ministry to come with its own initiatives. It's maybe a matter of time. We know that there were all fatal incidents in this black market in the United States, where the oil was put in liquids. We know that, with this overregulation, we had such a black market that we have not actually understood at this point either, from where consumers start trusting legal shops on a daily basis again. In fact, Estonia has made a human attempt on our society through its experimental and error method, and we can share this practice with other European countries as well. The parliaments of several countries have, and their, let's say, smoke-free ideals are being pursued by ambassadors, just turned to Estonia to see what your lessons are about overregulation. This ban on tastes in itself is very strange, this ban on speaking. Now that we come up with the fact that only soft drinks and sweets [taste] can be banned, just as different people have referred to us, it has actually created such a situation that now we now have completely officially/unofficially available disposable e-smokers in Estonia, which are, I see, here are watermelons, ice and lichish, strawberry, pineapple[flavoured]. I don't understand why adults can't use flavoured e-cigarettes. The good side, however, is that they've been tested laboratoryally, they're not dangerous for adults. But since they are not sold in Estonia, they are extremely attractive. As you know, forbidden fruit is always sweet for young people. And young people have already started their own network marketing. We have furnished young people's leisure, entrepreneurialism and all that, but then informally. We teach them entrepreneurship through the shadow economy. So, good ambassadors, five changes. They are described in an extremely specific way, but I agree to respond and maybe give you some background information that does not help to decide, because the decision itself has been made. But I hope that the same bill will soon come back, because, I repeat, the availability of tobacco-free nicotine pillows, which are ten or more times stronger, is a problem at this point. I think that Estonian society should not wake up when we already have some bodies. We could prevent it, it's called prevention. This competence, to prevent threats, actually exists in the Riigikogu. I am sincere that today, which is also the day of the Estonian flag, in the sense that the Estonian Students' Society decided that blue black and white could be the colour of our national flag, there is freedom to feel in this Chamber as well, and those people who are very opposed and think that we should not open the debate, but interrupt the debate here, would not vote in favour of the Commission's decision today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U321	Thank you. And there are questions. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U322	Thank you, Mr President. Tarmo Kruusimäe, a member of the group of the initiators of the bill! This draft aims to improve clearer labelling of tobacco-free products, etc. No one in this Chamber has any doubt that you know this area very well, you have demonstrated it many times. But I'm gonna ask you two questions. It took a hundred years to understand the harmful effects of cigarettes and smoking, as well as the dangers of cigarettes and paper rolls. How many years do you think it will take to understand the harmfulness of all these fine products, whatever they taste or smell or label? Here we are talking about the nicotine content of tobacco-free lip tobacco. The nicotine content of tobacco-free lip tobacco is 25 milligrams instead of 40 milligrams. Explain it a little bit. I'll specify the question. Time's up. [[He'll keep talking without a microphone.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U323	Thank you! That's a good question. One extremely good movie was on TV6 at the beginning of June, "All the truth about nicotine" ["Nicotini's real face"], where it was claimed that nicotine addiction is worse than heroin or cocaine addiction. If we were to follow these studies, we could compare nicotine dependence with coffee or tea dependence. It has long been said that 50+ would be useful for our neutrons to bounce better, yet perhaps this nicotine [to be consumed]. In addition, what smokers know and do not need to talk about: it helps to focus, it calms people down. If people see that they have the opportunity to consume nicotine that does not disturb the environment, why shouldn't it be lip tobacco? In addition, we have nicotine patches, we have nicotine chewing gums, we have nicotine sprays and, let's be honest, we already have nicotine toothsticks. This industry is developing somewhat further and talking about the fact that nicotine addiction at this point is the most dangerous thing, and it is not. The evil root really is, good Urve, if you can listen, the fact that in the United States it was found that tobacco is a very bad plant because it pulls all kinds of dirt from the ground with roots. Luckily, the other plants next door won't do it. That is why the Swedish snus, which is a nicotine pillow with tobacco, has been removed from tobacco, and nicotine has been removed from it. Yes, we can say that nicotine also contains potatoes and tomatoes, of course repeating smaller quantities, but I have not seen us regulate potato and tomato cultivation from this point of view. I do not believe, Urve, that nicotine is harmful, but I do know that it has been [used] as a stimulus during World War I and World War II. I would also like to say one good historical fact: when the first demonstrations of 8 March came, where very few women took part, it was proposed that women should come, [cigarette] elegantly on top of the lace, with their own torch of freedom, and smoke cigarettes on the street to show that they want freedom. Now, with this freedom, we have come somewhere so far that we want to restrict it. O tempora, o mores!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U324	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U325	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I am pleased that in your introductory speech you also referred to fires and deaths caused by careless smoking. Indeed, as a volunteer savior, I myself have been in several fires caused by careless smoking, and unfortunately, one was also with the deceased. Rescue statistics say 14 people died last year from careless cigarette smoking, and there are no statistics for this year. But that was an introduction. My question concerns distance selling. All kinds of online ordering of goods became particularly topical when we had a corona crisis, we still have it, shopping centres and shops are closed, and people-to-people contacts are being reduced. What are the reasons that have been given to you, why is the distance selling of alternative tobacco products still prohibited?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U326	Thank you! I would also remind you here that, when our good chairman was Prime Minister, he too was asked whether it would not be possible for the workers of these shops to have contactless work and distance sales [to be allowed], as well as Tanel Kiige [was asked], and for every place that could be [to be addressed] to the Chancellor of Justice, it was said that we had a law like this, we should change the law. There was no other simpler answer. But the opposition was that the representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs said that today we do not really have a certain knowledge of how it is possible to identify these people on the long-distance road, and minors can easily get their hands on these [products]. I think that was an extremely stupid argument. We can choose 16-year-olds in two weeks' time, but we argue that products intended for adults [they] cannot be obtained. Young people have bank cards, they log in, they have [their] capabilities. Moreover, many merchants are ready to set their homepages in such a way that you have to log in beforehand to see the choice of goods at all. At the same time, I would like to remind you that pornography, as such, should also be for minors [inaccessible], but there are no restrictions on which to confirm their age. And in the case of distance selling, let us unload the international postal service, I recall that pornographic material is not to be distributed via mail either. Real life actually goes somewhere else. I think that if the only argument why you cannot afford distance sales today is that individual people in the ministry have the certainty that it is not possible to identify on the long road whether it is an adult or a minor, that statement is wrong, and I think it is already the place where we should go on with this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U327	Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U328	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear waitress, Can you predict what might be the real reasons why this legislative amendment will not be approved today?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U329	Thank you! It could be, say, inherent and philosophical in nature. That somebody's ever said something, and people may not really understand it directly. I remember when a lot of ambassadors here say I don't smoke myself, I don't understand the subject, but they're still empathetic, there could be a little more empathetic people in the ministry. I think if it were up to these people, we'd all beepers today, because once this beeper came and that's enough to develop if that's not necessary. Maybe this isn't the best comparison, but women might understand my thinking. Once, nail polish was removed with acetone. That's it, that's it, that's it, that's it. Today, however, all nail polishes are acetone-free and they have some smells and stuff in them. There are acetone aunties in the ministry who say: no, if there is a choice, whether the varnishes and acetone or not, it is your choice. If you're lacing, you're removing acetone, but you can't put any other stuff. Perhaps puritanism is good, but if it relies, let's say, on such incompetence or subject, then maybe at this point, this thing will make the ambassadors smile. But the people who are watching the hearing are watching that, oh-oh, when do you get to real life, ambassadors, and expect us all to come to the street, and people will tell you what they think. I think it's just stuck in these dogmas that it was, tobacco is harmful, and if there is anything else, tobacco is still harmful. Even when tobacco has been taken away and is a new product. Here is another difficult moment: if there is a law that cannot be enforced, what is such a law? We have equalized tobacco to e-cigarette, so heated cigarette, so tobacco-free nicotine pillow. Now, here's an example. In public bathing areas, we are banned from smoking, which means that we are also banned from using e-cigarettes there and from consuming heated cigarettes. If the police come to public order, this means that they should look at the lips of all sunbathes so that they do not have a tobacco-free nicotine pillow, because it is also equalized. This shows that we have made proposals that are extremely agile, but the Riigikogu is still based on its own experience in life, knowledge and best practices. That is why I think it would be extremely good if we had the opportunity to send it to second reading and to hold this debate and make the necessary changes, because there are five changes here, one of which is already screaming. Maybe too quiet.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U330	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U331	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress! The Estonian Association of Tobacco Manufacturers has made one appeal in connection with this draft, where they say, among other things: "In terms of the strength of the Nicotine pillows, the larger producers have achieved sector-specific self-regulation today in Europe and also at Estonian level, so that the amount of nicotine per pillow should not exceed the limit of 20 milligrams. At the same time, there are a number of entrepreneurs in Estonia who have not agreed to this. The draft aims to set this threshold at 25 milligrams instead. It is unclear why the legislator should aim to set a maximum level of nicotine in nicotine pillows that is stronger than the current market standard. " How do you comment on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U332	First of all, I would like to comment on it so that who has a shoe squeezes it, after all, it is the tobacco industry. People find less safe things, still that's the reason there. They've also pointed out that the Ministry of Social Affairs already promised that they'd start working on it sometime. These calculations we did, we were based on what's in our culture. I didn't bring in cigarillo and cigar comparisons, maybe these strong smokes, one is red, and the other is this dark yellow, they're exactly the same. Strangely enough, the Ministry of Social Affairs wanted us to say that we could build on average practice. The average practice is far below. Explaining this means that if we sell spirits for a drink, and if most of the strong alcohol is 40 degrees, but the statistics show that we actually drink wine or fortified beers, then they find that from now on, all the strong alcohol and lean alcohol can actually be on that 12.5 degrees. Maybe they'll take some middle part. So we have left people free to choose, but we are thinking that they are not dangerous to consumers and that is why this limit will be set. The market itself regulates and generally regulates all of these activities, in the case of alternative tobacco products business, one thing is that it is destructive. When a person comes from a normal smoke onto an alternative tobacco product, at first he's here in the meantime, then he's only on an alternative product, then he's gonna reduce and reduce and reduce this nicotine, and finally he's gonna say why I have to do it anymore. After all, we know how many decades people have smoked and have not gotten rid of it. There are people in each group who have personal experience and they say it has helped them. We trust the life experience of these people, and let us not listen to tobacco companies that specifically want to have only the options they have proposed. I think that Estonia is the third largest in Europe today at the time of the death of tobacco, that we must quickly and quickly think about our people and make sensible laws, i.e. remove large and disproportionate restrictions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U333	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U334	Thank you very much. Unreasonable restrictions do not stop consumption or lose trade, but lead to its underground. In the example of a failed alcohol policy, we can today, unfortunately, talk about Pärnu's methanol tragedy or, in the case of less severe, about moving taxes to Latvia. Can you describe in a few words what has happened in the market for alternative tobacco products because of these unreasonable restrictions, where a lot of sales have moved underground?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U335	Thank you! Yes, this tax revenue, which had been subject to excise duty, decreased at such a terrible rate that, in the end, the officials of the Ministry of Finance said that it would be more reasonable not to collect this excise duty, whereas in advance, if it had not been overregulated, it was perfectly normal to arrive. One of the greatest threats was the so-called self-mixing, [where] there was no laboratory confirmation of which components are inside it. The obligation [to check] is always in place for these merchants, and I think it is either the Health Board or somebody's statistics, but if you ask for these statistics, they say it's of business interest. I'm afraid that's how many things we have. If someone says it's bad, it's bad, and if you want to know why it's bad, that information is classified. I am pleased that we have received one-time e-smooths with tastes instead of mixing it ourselves, because they have been laboratory tested. I mean, people's own safety. But in the case of taxes and when people find their way to illegal shops or when people are allowed to order it through distance selling, because people who live in rural areas may not be able to go to a larger shopping centre every day to buy it at a specific store, so it could be alleviated. The illustration of Imavere, which I brought to the Committee on Social Affairs, was that there were ten people who were vaping, the store closed, and all ten people started smoking again because there was nothing to do, they were no longer able to get what they had used before. And we are talking here about products for adults. The black market is what it is, but since the black market is not measured, I think it should still be decided by the Riigikogu. What is very strange here is that there was an important moment in imposing such prohibitions for the officials of the Ministry of Finance who wanted to prohibit tastes in e-cigarettes. I do not know what fiscal policy approach this was, and today we should ask the Minister of Finance what is [now]. The previous Minister of Finance realized that if nothing is received and everything is a black market, then there is no point in teasing officials to catch the wind in the field. I think we can stop the black market just when it is our will. But we remember that the dry law actually served the interests of the shadow economy. So, I don't know. I know that there is no one in this Chamber who would like to support this shadow economy. But like I said, this hall right here is riding a scooter next door, dreaming about the back seat.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U336	Good waitress, thank you very much. No further questions. I would like to ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Mr Hele Everausi, member of the Social Affairs Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U337	I'm sorry! [[Pours water in a glass.]] At the time of the smoking talk, the [throat] began to dry. Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to continue where, very logically and very rightly, the author of the draft made an excellent report to you on all aspects of the draft. I will then try to pass on to you what happened in the Committee on Social Affairs. The sitting was held on 20 September. Siret Kotka, chairman of the committee, was present, of course, and were members of the committee with one exception. Siim Pohlak was absent; Toomas Järveoja was replaced by Tiiu Aro and, of course, Tarmo Kruusimäe was the representative of the initiators. Also Aive Telling, Head of Environmental Health and Chemical Safety at the Ministry of Social Affairs, and Triinu Täht, Adviser to the Public Health Department. Mr Kruusimäe made an excellent introduction, and so did the Commission. And so that I don't accidentally get anything wrong here, I'm following what's written about the questions and answers of the various parties at the protocol meeting. First of all, Aive Telling from the Ministry of Social Affairs presented the position of the Government of the Republic to the Commission. Two main problem areas have been identified: the definition of the tastes of electronic cigarette liquids and the strength of tobacco-free nicotine pillows. Although there is support for the regulation of nicotine pillows, I think it is also positive in this respect for the draft legislation, and in the Ministry there is also the intention to develop a draft to this effect, the 25 milligrams proposed in draft 412 are too strong, as already 10 milligrams are considered lethal for children. For example, only products of 2 and 4 milligram strength are allowed in Finland, and the WHO recommendation is that nicotine levels should be only 0.6 milligrams. The average strength of products on the market today is 11.68 milligrams. So, taking into account the various factors, the Government of the Republic estimates that the upper limit on the strength of nicotine pillows should be less than 10 milligrams. As far as the regulation of the tastes of e-cigarettes is concerned, this approach is supported, but real implementation is currently facing real problems that need to be foreseen and these solutions brought to the table. Furthermore, the government cannot support the relaxation of distance selling regulations as the state's promotion of nicotine products is not justified from a health point of view. The ban on display at the point of sale does not apply to specialised shops; it allows access to products of interest. The ban extends to groceries and gas stations. The presentation of this position by the Ministry of Social Affairs was followed by Kert Kingo's question as to whether products of 25 milligram strength are currently available in Estonia. Aive Telling specified that there are individuals. Fortunately, the market in Russia has not already caused deaths in products of 300 milligrams. Good luck Pillak wanted to know why the draft proposed that electronic nicotine products should be displayed in shops, but not in the case of ordinary products such as cigarettes. Mr Tarmo Kruusimäe explained that electronic nicotine products are more complex in nature and that some of them might break down. However, as spare parts for products are not visible in shops and filling stations, consumers have been found to be taking a simpler course of resistance by choosing regular cigarettes as a substitute. Again, Mr Hillak wishes to clarify whether these spare parts are still on sale in shops, but not visible. Tarmo Kruusimäe answers that products may be visible in special shops, but they are mostly located only in larger centres and are too distant for people living in rural areas. By the Ministry of Social Affairs, Aive Telling stated that all shops could sell these products and that the seller could show them at the request of the buyer. A permanent display is not allowed. There are also price lists and lists of products to be sold. He added that the same ban on display was in force in several European countries and was not over-regulation. Kert Kingo expressed the view that banning or hiding the display of products actually gives rise to a greater interest in them, which in turn leads to a shadow economy. He wanted to know whether there was evidence that the ban on the display of nicotine products would contribute to a reduction in their use. By the Ministry of Social Affairs Triinu Täht, Triinu noted that this opinion is very widespread in society, which is also strongly promoted by alcohol and tobacco producers. However, the results of research have strongly proven the opposite: banning the display of products has reduced consumption, but especially the emergence of new consumers. Viktor Vassilyev noted that alcohol is still very visible in shops, despite the introduction of the isolated area. He agreed with the draft proposal that, like alcohol, nicotine-containing products should be available at a distance. Aside from that, Aive Telling, the Ministry of Social Affairs, said that alcohol is really available online. This is a different law, and the government does not want to make it more attractive for consumers starting products, or to go further in this way from the legislation already in force. Viktor Vassilyev asked why a long-term consumer whose data has been verified is not allowed to order e-cigarette-related products for his own use. Triinu Täht of the Ministry of Social Affairs replied that it was tobacco products that should be taken as an example in the view of the Ministry of Social Affairs and that there should be strong regulation of the availability and sale of alcohol, not the other way round. If it were to be ensured that minors would not be able to access tobacco products, this question could be a forum for discussion. Kert Kingo commented that he was not convinced of the results of the research, as the ban on drugs has shown the opposite effect, in addition to which Triinu Täht, the Ministry of Social Affairs replied that the prevalence of drugs in society is not comparable to that of tobacco products or alcohol that most people have used or tried in life in our society. The consumption of tobacco products has decreased considerably due to the introduction of measures and the positive effects of banning the display have been scientifically demonstrated. Tarmo Kruusimäe presented to the Commission a question of its own at the previous joint meeting concerning the consumption of mocha tobacco in Estonia. The answer of the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs was that there are no problems with mocha tobacco, as it is banned in Estonia. Thus, 17,000 everyday consumers dealt with the informal economy. Moca tobacco has now been defined as a product containing non-tobacco nicotine and would, according to the initiator of the draft, need regulation. By the Ministry of Social Affairs Triinu Täht said that the statement made about the question and the answer was wrong and mocha tobacco was a major problem in Estonia. As mocha tobacco is regulated at EU level, it is not reasonable to start a process of changing it due to resource intensity. Tarmo Kruusimäe expressed his wish to send the opinion of the smoke-free Estonian Support Group of the Riigikogu to the positions of the Government of the Republic, as several significant errors have been found. Helmen Kütt noted that there was a clear understanding of the opinion of the Government of the Republic, as well as the discussion of today's sitting, that there are bottlenecks in the current law that need to be changed. He asked whether the Ministry was planning to come up with its own draft and why, in the event of a negative response, clear bottlenecks could not be improved by means of a draft that had already been launched. Aive Telling replied that the Ministry of Social Affairs had a draft on the same subject. Now I have brought all the wisdom that the members of the Commission and the representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs exchanged before you, and then it went into the formal part. Each Member of the Commission thought, and the chairman of the committee proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 28 September, which was postponed due to a change in the agenda to this day, and that the Assembly should be invited to reject the draft. So what was decided? There was a consensus on the agenda, everyone was in favour. Propose to reject the draft. There were 5 members of the Commission: Tiiu Aro, Hele Everaus, Siret Kotka, Luck Pillak, Marika Tuus-Laul. The answer was 2: Kert Kingo, Priit Onion. And there were also 2: Helmen Kütt, Viktor Vassilyev. A representative of the Governing Commission was recommended to be appointed to the Light Everaus before you. It was also a consensual decision. So short and clear, I hope. I can only answer about what happened in the Commission. Personal life, I believe, we don't need to discuss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U338	Thank you very much for this comprehensive, substantive and good overview. You have questions too. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U339	Good manager! Good waitress, thank you for your thorough review. We are all moving here under the flag of such a green turn, and my question [is]: did the Commission also discuss the connection of this draft to the green turn?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U340	If anyone was discussing it in their heads, I know nothing about it, but there was no public debate in the Commission about it. I understand your concern. And I'm sure we'll have to discuss it again sometime.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U341	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U342	Thank you. Madam Professor! Should I not, for the sake of historical truth, explain for a little bit my statement from the record that I had asked for the sale of tobacco by post? The story was that for me, there was a staggering news that alcohol could be ordered by post or ordered by telephone, and then I wondered what inequality in social vices, when you can sit and order extra alcohol, you can even order bad girls and very fun girls when you look at the ad, but you can't just smoke, you have to go to the street and ask me where you get a knack. Now that was my question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U343	The question to who, what?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U344	Ministry.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U345	Again, we did not discuss why, for example, bad girls cannot be ordered, and we cannot do that today. Or bad guys, right? But in the Commission, yes, with this issue, we are so disbanded. All this can be done in the future, and Dr. Vasilyev knows what he's asking. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U346	Thank you. I have a request that we keep things in balance. I thank you for making this observation. And yet I have a request that we stay within the scope of Bill 412. Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U347	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, I would like to proceed with the question put by Peter Ernits. Perhaps the drafters should put more emphasis on the green turn. If we think in pictures that a regular cigarette can be such a diesel-using car and electric cigarettes, and we all need these cars, even though car driving can often lead to accidents and death, is it not more about losing cars than giving them a chance to live, figuratively speaking?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U348	I understand you're comparing a person to a car. I would compare a person, I think we are all part of nature, and in that sense the green question was actually very correct. We have forgotten that we are part of nature and those things that we may want to order here on the Internet, and what really is the basis of business when we go back to nature, there was still what was available to people. So in that sense, I'd be careful. I do not think that cigarettes and all these other [things] are good fuel for each and every one of us. There are all sorts of theories, [for example] that smoking alone is harmful, but when you drink with alcohol, it is almost beneficial. All kinds of theories are, by the way, and everything can always be well justified, because statistics are different everywhere. So I'd be very, very careful with that comparison. I don't think cars should lose. What I'm asking is, when people say that everything gets electrocuted, where does electricity come from for all these things? And actually, where does this internal balance come from? You were talking about the years you lived here. Of course, living is bad, it always ends in death. But does he have to end quickly and we're helping him? That's a question in itself. I'm not the author of any rigid rules, but I think we all have to understand that all the things that are sold are actually business, let's be honest. This, of course, is what the whole economy is on, but we need to think about where our place is. Like we don't understand where we have a place in nature today. Because it is as if we feel that we are, as was said in our time, that man is the master. Today we talk about the COVID virus how much. The virus hasn't come to kill us. The virus wants to survive. That's the way it is with all the other things. If we don't understand where the center is, but I think you all actually understand. I went long, I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U349	Thank you. No, you haven't been prescribed any minutes, so you can answer as your soul desires. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U350	Good manager! Good waitress! I understand from Dr. Vassilyev that you can't order boys electronically. But my interest is because there are more doctors in the Committee on Social Affairs than you, how the forces were divided in this vote. Who among the doctors was in favour of sending [this bill] into the trash bin, and who opposed it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U351	Surely no one had the idea of sending anything to the trash. On the contrary, I believe that the point is that one form or another must be taken forward. It's a long way from the trash can, definitely not that. But about the doctors, I also read about who voted. I voted in favour of eviction, so to speak, Dr. Aro voted in favour, Dr. Vassilyev was impartial. That's right. Men can't decide. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U352	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U353	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! If I remember correctly now, you said in this way that the same draft law was being drafted in the Ministry, and that is why the Commission will decide to reject it. I would point out that your dearly beloved President Kersti Kaljulaid has just come here to say that the Riigikogu is becoming a rubber stamp in the hands of the government. Wouldn't it be wise to support this bill, however, to show that the Riigikogu is not a rubber stamp, contrary to the proposal of the Social Affairs Committee, and still to be the founder of the law, rather than to be written to us in advance and then to do what we are told?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U354	I've never done what I'm told in my life. I've been trying to do what I think is right. That's what I say about myself. I do not know, I believe that the Members of the Commission will do the same. And no one in this hall is definitely a rubber stamp. Actually, you have the decision to make. That is the Commission's proposal, that is not an order. That's what I'd say.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U355	To be honest, thank you very much for this presentation, and I must honestly say thank you for these answers as well. Very, very interesting. Here we go. It is now as follows: it is possible to open negotiations at first reading if the political groups so wish. That wish has come to our table. I'm opening negotiations. Please contact Tarmo Kruusimäe, representative of the Group of the Isamaa Party of the Riigikogu speech chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U356	Thank you, good Chairman! Good coworkers! I did not claim to come here from the group's views [to talk], because perhaps I am too specific about this issue and someone else would be more balanced in giving an overview of it. But I want to help all of you ambassadors a little bit, because no matter what, the younger generation still asks what's going on there, right? The fact that these things need to be regulated is something that everyone is talking about. It is precisely because we hope that the Ministry will intend to do so, because it already has the intention to develop it. You've seen the athlete go, he's getting ready to go, and there's a plan. If it has the wrong starting points, i.e. the national ban on distance selling, which is within the European Tobacco Directive, that every country can decide for itself, in this, ambassadors, you must rely on the fact that the officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs feel that it is not possible to identify on a long-distance basis whether a person is an adult or not. Second thing: the concept of sweets and soft drinks. As well as the good workmate Hele said here, the Ministry of Social Affairs found it difficult to understand what the taste of soft drink and sweets is. If they start developing it [the bill], but they don't understand [these concepts], I say that a food technolog or a chef, but maybe even a dishwasher is enough to figure out what a soft drink is and what a sweet drink is. Based on this knowledge, I'm saying we're gonna spin out of this situation. [I say] to those who think that this bill must be rejected. But what I'm saying is that if it's important for us to have healthy years, which is actually a good concept, and which has already shown an effect, those people who have gone from regular cigarettes to that [e-cigarette], it's about five to ten years, just because all this crap and the death of tobacco don't come from that burning, then healthy years could be worth. Passive smoking could actually be a value and a goal in itself. These are no longer arguments today. Perhaps a paradigm shift has taken place somewhere, that we are starting from something else, and this approach is still how it is possible to decide for adult people what they want and in what way. We here understand that differences are enriching. You need colors in life. For officials, it's always easier: the fewer colors, the better. Believe me or not, a proposal to reduce these colors was made by the Treasury Department officials. It's a ban on taste. If that's the way it goes, women, I just told you about the acetone and nail polish removal, then maybe it's because the brown varnish color is appropriate, because it's kind of average, nobody's using it, but, well, from the two extremes together, we meant it. My point is this: if a miracle happens and it is found that in 2021 we could really honestly discuss here in the Riigikogu Hall what the taste of soft drink and sweets is and whether adults could try cherry-flavoured pipe tobacco, for example, or whether we know about them only legends, right? Or what the animation on the design is, then we should debate. But if we believe in the officials, we're still bouncing this scooter quietly by the side of the car and we can't get into the back seat right now. But, well, we all apologize, that's why we've been chosen here. Thank you. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U357	Thank you. I now ask Kalle Grünthali, representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, to the Riigikogu's speech chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U358	Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to talk about these planned changes to the tobacco law here at the moment, which I do not think needs to be done at all. I would like to focus on a more important issue. I believe that you will all remember the opening session of this session of the Riigikogu, where there was President Kersti Kaljulaid on the very floor, who accused that the Riigikogu had started to become a rubber stamp, that is, we do not have the right to self-decisive. I guess our president didn't just say those words. This thing had a very deep point, and it actually had to get into your brain to analyze why it said it, because it's not just saying it. I do not know, at least personally, that all members of the Riigikogu, as well as members of the committees, have not fully understood the use of the word of President Kersti Kaljulaid. He said that the Riigikogu had become a rubber stamp. Well, what then, said, we're going our way forward, we're going to seal the next one, [a lot], what somebody's saying somewhere. But actually, there's a fundamental question here. At this point in time, we are in a situation where this draft was rejected by the Commission on the grounds that the Government of the Republic has decided in this way, they are developing a new draft law, and that is why the draft that we have tabled is being rejected. But what is that thing? This is, in fact, the surrender of decision-making powers to the Government of the Republic, and this is a concrete and obvious example of the fact that we are here a rubber stamp. Do you understand? Where is your straightness and judgment to say that you won't tell us in advance, we will decide for ourselves? I call on you right now to follow exactly the words of President Kersti Kaljulaid, to send this rubber stamp name to the trash can, this is not an honorable thing, and to let this bill go on to second reading, because we will decide in this Chamber which laws will apply, no one anywhere in the Government of the Republic. And here's a knock, let's say, on the conscience of all the committees and the chairmen of the committees: we don't have to follow what the Government of the Republic thinks or says. We have to decide, you know? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U359	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. It is now that the Home and Rules of Procedure Act provides that we need to look at what the commission has proposed to us. As the Commission representative, Mr Everau, presented, the Commission has proposed to reject the draft 412 at first reading, and it is our duty to vote on it. Let's start preparing the vote. Dear colleagues, I would like to put to the vote the draft proposal of the lead committee 412 to be rejected at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U360	With the result of 33, no votes against 18, no abstentions, Draft 412 has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure. That concludes the sixth item.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U361	We will move on to the seventh item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Traffic Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 414. Please contact the Riigikogu Chair Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Taavi Aasa. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U362	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I will present you with a bill that seeks to amend the law on traffic. The draft will transpose the revised EU Directive aimed at ensuring the interoperability of electronic toll collection systems and facilitating the exchange of information on border crossings related to the non-payment of tolls. The directive has previously been transposed into the Estonian judicial area, and now it has been clarified and improved. For the purposes of the Directive, an electronic toll system is a system where the user of the road is obliged to pay for the use of the road and relates only to the automatic identification of the presence of the vehicle in a particular location by automatic identification of the distance communication and the number plate in the vehicle installation. There is no such system in Estonia. It is a common framework for the creation of a technological standard for the collection of distance-based road user charges, ensuring the interoperability of existing systems and rules allowing the continuous provision of electronic road tolling services across the European Union. In addition, regulation provides for cross-border data exchange to be applied in the event of non-payment of tolls by a vehicle of another EU Member State, where the right of claim arises as provided for in the legislation of a Member State of the European Union. Despite the fact that there is no system for collecting electronic tolls with automatic vehicle identification in Estonia, the Directive still needs to be transposed to a minimum mandatory extent, i.e. as a result of the right of European electronic toll collecting providers to register their activities in each Member State of the European Union. Therefore, in accordance with the Directive, Member States must lay down requirements for the technologies and equipment used and lay down the rights and obligations of providers and users of electronic tolling services. One of the rights of eligible providers of electronic tolling services is to register in accordance with the Directive in each Member State of the European Union, which means that the Transport Authority must provide for appropriate procedures for the registration of such operators and make their name and contact details public on the website of the Transport Board. In the absence of a system, compliant service providers have not expressed any interest in registration in Estonia and therefore no additional workload is foreseen for the Transport Board. As the cross-border exchange of information on the non-payment of tolls takes place through the European Vehicle and Driving Licence Information System, which is also used for the automatic exchange of traffic-related information, the additional workload is not high and does not lead to the need for additional jobs. The proposal is necessary for the interoperability of the electronic tolling systems in place in the Member States of the European Union [to facilitate] and the removal of legal obstacles to compliance with the obligation to pay tolls in the European Union. I ask you to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U363	Thank you, Minister. Looks like there's a question, let's do that. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U364	Good manager! Good minister! We have not yet reached tolls. I ask [in this regard] that it has been stated here that the draft has been drawn up for the transposition of Directive 2019/520 on a minimum compulsory scale, as the directive does not mean that electronic tolls are collected in Estonia. Explain in clear Estonian what this means. As the electronic toll is not collected, but the directive must be adopted on 19 October at the latest this year, we will do so in a minimum of compulsory terms. But why are we still doing this? And so much paper has been spent.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U365	Thank you. Yes, as I said, this directive has actually been transposed, and now it has simply been improved. We're taking these additions in, but we're really doing it in the minimum required volume, because we don't have such a system. We are doing this to ensure that there is one technological standard throughout the European Union. The other side is that if the subject is left unsolicited, it would also be possible to ask for it afterwards.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U366	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U367	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, As in the Commission, I will ask here, just in case, for the hall and for history. We are taking over some rules, we are not introducing new taxes and we are taking over the rules, because this is an obligation, which is because, at the minimum rate, and we have no intention of imposing any new taxes on this basis, I have understood correctly?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U368	Thank you for your question. Yeah, you've got it perfectly right.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U369	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U370	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! We are taking over the directive on a small scale, because we may have the knowledge that we cannot be sure, either electronically or by means of teleworking [on the road] or by virtue of it, who has paid and who has not, because, as was the case on the previous agenda, we do not have this capacity. Am I on the right track?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U371	Thank you. No, in fact, since we do not have this toll, we do not control the payment of the toll or the operators in Estonia do not control the payment. However, there may be a case where a car from Estonia moves on a pay road somewhere in the European Union and leaves the toll due or not, then the operator can also contact the Estonian Transport Board to pay for it afterwards.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U372	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U373	Good manager! Good minister! As I understand it said here, you said that [the system] is across Europe, but I read here that only about 20 European countries have this system. There are, of course, many more countries in the European Union. Am I right to understand that, since we do not have this [system], it is actually to punish Estonian drivers in Europe where these laws exist? If they have not paid [the road charge] there, the adoption of this directive will, to the minimum, give our drivers the money. If we don't take it, we can't.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U374	Thank you. I wouldn't say it's punishment. If there is a road to pay, if someone uses it and does not pay it, it is certainly not the driver's punishment to recover that charge afterwards. It's just not buying a ticket and it's being demanded afterwards.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U375	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Please ask Kalvi Tõvi, Member of the Economic Commission for the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U376	President of the Riigikogu! Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, For starters, it's a crucial part. The Commission has also taken decisions after a long debate, and I will first read them out so that they are spoken out. Firstly, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda for today, by consensus, [secondly] to propose the termination of the first reading, as well as by consensus, and [thirdly] amendments within the deadline of 10 days due to our home and operating procedures. There was a lot of debate in the Commission, a lot of questions and half of the questions were all there to understand the content of the draft. Just as Peter here asked and others said that if we take it over, why do we take it over, if we don't have a plan to apply a toll, why don't we take it over? The Commission understood that the content and impact of this draft in Estonia is precisely for those who travel abroad, what the Minister said if the fee was not paid there. However, people who will be travelling abroad in the future and [if] we have transposed this directive, they can already pay all their tolls in Europe by electronic means at home, from where they want to pass. So there's not only a minus, there's a plus. With this knowledge, the Commission was very pleased, said it was a sensible thing to send a hall, to finish the first reading, and I will not read these long questions and answers from the minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U377	Thank you, good waitress. However, it seems that one question was left in the air. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U378	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! I hope you discussed this in the Commission. I'm of the opinion that no one's gonna hand over their own. How is it possible for an Estonian person to prove that if he hasn't even been driving, but we know that the spread of the Internet and IT awareness vary from country to country, as a simple example, that there are countries where people's corona certificate is simply viewed with a hair dryer, but there is a sticker on the manufacturer's name to be as IT competent as it is, but it must be charged that this and this license plate have been driven and left outstanding, is it possible to prove their innocence later? Or is it that you still have to pay up and then go to court?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U379	Thank you, good Tarmo! We didn't have such a specific question. But even today, if you come, say, from Europe, if you have traveled through Austria, for example, then you will be informed by the Austrian police that you have not paid the toll, but you have a sticker for that day, take a picture of your sticker, send them an appeal. Well, eventually there are courts or whatever who decides. Of course, there will continue to be [so] [that] if you have still made this payment, you will receive a message, you have behaved as a proper citizen, there will be no problems. And finally, after all, the whole of Europe is ours, which we are giving out to each other here, isn't it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U380	Good waitress, thank you, no more questions. Honourable groups, would you like to open negotiations? Please, I look forward to active participation, initiative. Not right now, okay? The lead committee has proposed that the first reading of draft 414 be terminated. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 13 October at 5.15 p.m. That concludes the first reading and concludes the seventh item.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U381	Let us move on to the eighth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the Bill 382 on the Amendment of the Law on the Organisation of the Energy Economy, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and the related amendment of other laws. It is my great honour and pleasure to welcome the Minister of Economy and Infrastructure, Taavi Aasa, in the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U382	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I present to you the draft law amending the law on the organisation of the energy economy and, in this respect, the amendment of other laws. Its aim is to transpose the new obligations and changes resulting from the Renewable Energy Directive into the Estonian legal order. The transposition of the Directive will help Estonia and the European Union as a whole to achieve renewable energy targets. As we move towards a carbon-neutral economy, increasing the share of renewable energy in Estonia's energy balance is one of the main objectives of Estonia's energy economy. In conclusion, four changes. The Energy Economy Organisation Act sets national renewable energy targets for 2030, which are the same as those described in the Estonian National Energy and Climate Plan until 2030. With regard to further ambitions, the European Commission published its vision this summer. This is the so-called "Fit for 55" package, on which positions are drawn up and impacts assessed separately. The methodology for achieving renewable energy targets, the criteria according to the Articles of the Directive, will be specified. For example, biofuel sustainability criteria are set for both biomass and biomass power plants. According to this, biofuels, including bioliquids and biomass fuels, and energy produced from biofuels that do not meet the sustainability and greenhouse gas emission reduction criteria should not be taken into account when assessing compliance with renewable energy targets. The criteria set out in the draft act provide an initial framework and general principles. The criteria are further described in Decree No 73 of the Minister for the Environment, but more precise evidence and verification mechanisms will be introduced at a later stage, based on the fundamentals of this draft. The consumption of energy from the energy source used for its own purposes shall be facilitated. Among other things, the creation of renewable energy communities is regulated and the rights and obligations of the consumer of electricity produced from renewable energy sources for own consumption are imposed. Today's Business Code provides an opportunity to start operating as a renewable energy community. This means that the necessary framework already exists today, but for reasons of legal clarity, the provisions have been included in the draft. The draft incorporates all aspects of recognition of origin into the Energy Economy Organisation Act. Previously, this issue has been dealt with in both the Natural Gas Act and the Electricity Market Act, but for reasons of legal clarity it is appropriate to integrate everything into a single law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U383	A procedural question, Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U384	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I have this problem that you had a very interesting presentation, but I'm afraid I didn't hear everything. The good staff of the Riigikogu even went to set up the microphones for you, but that did not help either. Since you still have here today to defend the drafts, I have such a very modest request that you release your vocal cords so that you can hear the back room.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U385	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U386	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! Perhaps with a few sentences, you will simply describe, in the interests of the protocol and the public, the link between the bio-efficiency criteria and the draft that we have already adopted on the use of biomass in the same 156 SE Narva boilers. It is also of public interest and this led to longer discussions within the Commission. Describe the future story with a few sentences so that we can all understand in the same way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U387	Thank you. Really, what we already have today, I hope we can hear better now, at least it seems to me that we have accepted or apologized, that you have adopted as a law, that really makes it possible to pay for the use of biomass in old boilers. But we don't want valuable wood, wood that can be made of anything else, to be used in those boilers. In fact, these criteria determine where the wood may come from and, secondly, what characteristics the wood used for heating must satisfy. In essence, it is wood that cannot be used anywhere else. There has been a discussion about whether or not the diameter of the wood should be determined. But we all know that maybe wood with a very large diameter, which is rotten inside and practically nowhere else can be used. This is why it is based on the fact that it is clearly fixed: aid can only be granted for the use of such wood and only wood that cannot be used for other purposes can be accounted for as a renewable energy source.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U388	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U389	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Minister, I have a question on the basis of Article 29 (6) of the Directive. It says this way, you don't have to look at it, I can tell you what's there, that the forest must be renewed in exactly the same volume within five years. It's all reasonable, but I think you're aware that there's a lot of trouble. It is clear that 15% of forests have not been restored during this period in areas inspected by the Environmental Board. What are you gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U390	Thank you. Yes, in fact, many of these energy-related drafts we have with two other than the Ministry of the Environment, because these specific requirements come from environmental laws. So there is a great deal of work here for the Environmental Inspectorate and, no doubt, for us to do with them.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U391	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U392	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The directive talks about concepts such as wilderness and forest with high biodiversity. And that is my question: how do you think we should, within the framework of this draft, exclude the supply of wood from such areas, for example, for energy and, accordingly, include such provisions in this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U393	Thank you. In fact, it is the case that the harvesting of wood from such forests [for energy production] is not allowed. There is no support for this and this does not count in any way as renewable energy.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U394	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U395	Good manager and minister! Once again, this fine directive, but maybe you could explain a little bit about it. It has been said here that there are very many countries in the European Union when it comes to the application of the directive, 'national objectives'. And explain to me where these numbers come from. It says here that renewable energy must be at least 42% of the energy consumed. That's the first number. In the case of electricity, it shall be at least 40% but at least 63% for heat and at least 14% for cars and trains. And now my question. In the European Union, there are a number of countries other than Estonia, at very different levels and so on. Where are these interesting numbers taken from: 42, 40, 63, and 14?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U396	Thank you. We've assessed our options, and these numbers have come from their surface. In fact, Estonia has not overestimated its capacity; it is realistic numbers. In the heating sector, for example, 63% of us today are actually already somewhere 60% of heating is based on renewable energy, mostly wood chips, although also peat. And it's really good that we have it like this. This has given us the opportunity that there will be no sudden rise in the hot price in Estonia at today's gas prices to a very large extent. Yesterday, I gave an example here that in Vilnius, for example, this increase is 60% because they use gas. In Helsinki, if I'm not mistaken, it's 30%. So, on the one hand, these are also objectives that will help us achieve greater energy security. The more we produce our own energy, the less we have to buy in the energy. I think it makes perfect sense in the Estonian economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U397	Let's move back. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U398	Thank you. Good Minister, since I could not be in committee during the debate on this draft, I will quickly allow myself two questions in this one minute. The first is this. I see that you have proposed in § 323 of the draft that renewable energy [source] is not considered to be the biomass that comes from the protected area. But the Environmental Justice Centre has been found to exclude storage areas and valuable habitats in this way. Why do we misapply the directive in this way? And the second question. We know that Estonia has an infringement procedure for cutting up a great deal of timber from Natura sites and valuable habitats. Do you think that this wood, which has now been cut, would be included in the biomass used for renewable energy production?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U399	Thank you. You have a very good question. On these points, we specifically consulted the Ministry of the Environment. Since there was indeed a discussion as to whether this interpretation, which has been given, was correct or should be clarified, the Ministry of the Environment also asked the Chamber of Environmental Associations for its opinion. And the House of Environmental Associations has indeed made a remark that the wording should be better. We have actually prepared a proposal for a correction in order to change this wording between two readings, and precisely in line with the proposal of the Chamber of Environmental Associations. So it's coming to the Commission, it's already prepared. With regard to Natura sites, I think that this is also where the opinion of the Chamber of Environmental Associations is concerned. I think that these issues will certainly come to the debate again in the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U400	Has the question been answered? Let's keep going. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U401	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Since this is an energy economy and you are also talking about the Paris climate agreement in this explanatory memorandum, please explain this very simply. We have a plan to move in the direction that we no longer produce energy from oil shale. It emits CO2. At the same time, wood material also emits CO2. Why would we prefer one to another if they both actually emit CO2 at combustion? You don't need a very complicated story, just say it so easily that the local countryman will understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U402	Thank you. Wood is the renewable natural resource of the easiest [seletus]. And on the other hand, it's good if we can produce more energy in such a way that we don't conflict with nature, but at the same time we have the ability to produce as much energy as we can, while producing as pure energy as possible. I consider the energy economy and the goals set in this way to be necessary for the Estonian economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U403	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U404	Good manager! Good waitress! The directive is a directive, and there are so many smart numbers here. Before you said that everything was exactly under control, but the price of the CO2 quota, which was also under control, was supposed to be EUR 50 to 2030, but it just so happens that it is not, or it is already much higher. And now I'm going to read these numbers here. Before I said that electricity has to have more than 40% [of the indicator], more than 63% on heat, more than 14% on cars and trains. And then it has been said that by [2022] 18% of the overall target and 32% by [ 2030] across Europe will have to be met. Do you understand all these numbers and how seriously they have to be taken, given that the quota kind of went off?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U405	Thank you. Yes, we had a longer discussion on quota trade yesterday in this very Chamber, a longer debate. There are certainly points, as I said yesterday, which need to be improved, because, as the quota trading system has been structured today, it unfortunately does not work. However, once again, these goals are also important for the Estonian economy. We try to produce as much energy as we can ourselves, and if we can use the energy we produce ourselves, it will be the most economically advantageous for us.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U406	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U407	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The dispute is not about whether wood is basically renewable energy. We're not arguing about this. But oil shale and wood, when burned in the same way, separates CO2. The question is, as we know, in the spirit of the green turn, we want to send our miners to study as neurosurgeons, to study another profession. And we're not going to mine any more minerals. My question is: who will mine our mineral resources if we do not have the capacity to do so? And to whom do you intend to leave this oil shale?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U408	Thank you. We still have many years ahead of this period if we are sure that oil shale is producing energy at certain moments, electricity. The oil production of oil shale will certainly continue for a long time. So the oil shale will be used for a long time. And if, in this 15 or 20 years, solutions are found to capture CO2 from the treatment of oil shale, I see no reason why it should be stopped. And we also have to take into account that today we have no alternative to oil shale. Alternatives are, but they are either more expensive, for example, the gas is more expensive, or the boiler houses producing heat and electricity together are not large enough. And there are many other mineral resources in Estonia besides oil shale and research is being carried out today on whether they can be introduced and, if so, how they can be introduced. I think that, in terms of mineral resources, Estonia is not as poor as we think it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U409	Minister, thank you very much. No further questions for you. Thank you. A procedural question, Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U410	Thank you, Mr President. I assume that if I ask the waitress questions, they will be answered. I said, since we know that during the green turn, miners will be laid off, who will mine these minerals, including oil shale. I didn't get an answer to that. It would be a pleasure if the Minister would answer the question rather than talk about the general principle.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U411	Thank you. As manager, I certainly cannot prescribe questions and answers, but I believe the Minister heard this and will certainly try to explain it to you again. I hope so. I now ask Kristen Michal, Chairman of the Economic Commission, to present the Chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U412	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this draft at several meetings. First of all, procedural decisions, because without them, you can't get away with it. First of all, we discussed the draft in greater detail on Monday, 31 May and we proposed that it be put on the agenda for this House on 16 June. It took some time, then we discussed it on 11 June and we proposed that it be removed from the agenda. And then we discussed on 14 September and we proposed that he be put on the agenda for today, and so it was. We proposed ending the first reading. This is the end of the procedural saga. Now, as far as the substantive debate is concerned, when I am trying to sum it up or refer it to, it was precisely what Minister Taavi Aas paid attention to here in his answers and what has also been in the public [for discussion] and in the letters sent to us. The question of whether everything is necessary is stated in this draft. Jevgeni Ossinovski was in the Commission, he had all very loosely was sure to recognise it and asked if there was a draft implementing act in which the bio-efficiency criteria were laid down. And, as the Minister said here today, we also received the same reply from the representative of the MKM that additional information is coming to the Commission, draft implementing legislation coming from the Ministry and improvements. And this is certainly important, because we have also been sent a letter about this same analysis, and I have already said the same thing to the press that, between the first and second readings, this is the time when the Commission can work in a working group where the Ministry can make improvements. Yeah, that was the bottom line. And since the minutes of the Committee on Economic Affairs are public and usually very detailed, anyone can read more if something is left open.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U413	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Now, I'm opening negotiations. Please request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group Kalvi Tõud.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U414	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, This is an undoubtedly very important draft. We know what has been increasing in Europe over the last decade: logging. Since the Renewable Energy Directive has promised to subsidise large-scale forest combustion, it is indeed high time to take steps to limit it and to decide which wood we burn so that it can be considered environmentally friendly. Of course, we must not forget the origin of the problem. As long as the wood was burned in small boiler houses, waste from the sawmill industry and twigs were mostly burned there. However, the Renewable Energy Directive allowed for the cost of inefficient mass burning of wood across Europe in large coal plants. A large amount of support was allocated there. There was a great demand, and the trunkwood began to be fine [grazed] and transported thousands of kilometres away by ships and trains. This has led to an increase in logging both here in Estonia and in the rest of the world. Today, remember, we have just passed a very bad law that says that the Narva stations can start to burn wood on a massive scale. Therefore, in addition to [set-up] bio-efficiency criteria, it is actually important in the future to exclude the subsidy of more than 100 megawatts of inefficient boilers in the combustion of wood. At least half the problem would have disappeared in a second. Now on to the bio-efficiency criteria. When did we have to transpose the directive? Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European I think we've been dragging this around for a very long time. As the chairman of the committee, Kristen, said, the Commission wanted to bring it to the hall, but it also arrived too late on the committee's desk. Let's look at the Ministry here a little bit. Plus, it's a bill bust, and that's what I asked about. I acknowledge that the Minister said that the amendments were on the way. The [restrictions] will be imposed on timber harvested from protected areas, while a large part of the areas required by the Directive will be excluded from the restrictions. There are a lot of problems here. But as I understand it, there are amendments coming from the Ministry. In general, we can say that the regulation of Estonian forest protection does not guarantee ecologically sustainable management. I'm afraid so. Our forest habitats are in very bad condition and are deteriorating. We have a large share of natural values without investing in forests. Our supervision is weak, as said by the Minister, and the impact assessment is incomplete. In this context, general references to the Nature Conservation Act and the Forest Act are not sufficient to establish bio-efficiency criteria. In order to bring its legal area into line with the requirements of the Directive, it is necessary to regulate much more precisely where and under what conditions timber may be stored for energy production. Only in this way can we be sure that we will correctly transpose the directive and that businesses will have confidence that their timber will meet the requirements of the directive. And most importantly, our natural values are well protected. Dear friends, there is a great deal of work to be done on this bill. The Social Democratic Party Group will certainly make proposals to amend this draft and will be ready to improve it in cooperation with the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U415	Thank you very much. Let's keep going. A traditional little interlude, a procedural question. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U416	Thank you, Mr President. This isn't an interlude. The question is that, as Kalvi Tõud correctly pointed out in his speech, [the draft] states that this law will enter into force on 30 June 2021. We're in this situation right now because, as far as I know, that date's long gone. And neither is this a fact that could be called, let's say, a drafting amendment. There is still a specific date for the entry into force of the law, and we could not go any further with this draft if we have not eliminated such a significant legislative deficit. That's my opinion right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U417	Thank you! Thank you, Mr Grünthal. Here all the important people, the chairman of the committee among them, have just heard it. I hope that the Commission will take this procedural issue of yours, which is not procedural, is still very substantive, under discussion in its future proceedings. I hope so. And now we have reached the moment when I ask for a speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Isamaa Group, Heiki Hepner.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U418	Thank you very much, Chairman of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to introduce you to the fact that I didn't plan on coming to this chair for the first time. But when we heard what our friendly colleagues said about the lines, I had no other way to disprove this information. There is no point in frightening the Estonian people that our forest will run out, that our forest owners will be so stupid that they will sell their logs for heating, losing up to 100 times, I say, up to 100 times in profit. There's no point in considering our forest owners so incompetent. Indeed, let us try to look at some facts. Jevgeni Ossinovski is not here. Evgeny, if you can hear me, maybe you'll come down here for a reply. We've usually had a debate here together. We have 30 million cubic metres of gray straw in Estonia. 30 million! For three years, we could only chop a gray bed, which unfortunately has nothing to do but heat it. Unfortunately! This is our historical burden, which we have received from the Soviet authorities. So what do we do, leave it to rot? But unfortunately, it turns into CO2. We are not contributing to renewable energy with any formula. If we think about it now... Yeah, I know there might be a line coming up about this, but look, if we were to heat the gas, bring gas and gas from Russia, it would be a lower primary amount of CO2. Friends, can there be a flood after 2050? If we're gonna burn the gray patch today, by 2050, it'll all be connected a long time ago. It's already connected by 2040, but the gas we're burning has been blown up for millions of years. Why are we talking this shit? I don't understand it. Or we take it the other way around: our forests are like too much maintenance. Our economic forests currently have dead timber per hectare, which is more than 15 cubic metres in 2018 data. 17,7 must have been if I remember exactly. It is considered necessary to ensure biodiversity, five cubic metres. Three times, more than three times, we've crossed it! More than 25% of Estonia's forests are protected. More than 14% are under strict protection, where all economic activities are banned and indeed, there are sometimes examples that you can see that they cut off strictly protected forests. And why did they chop? They were chopping because nature conservation foreshadowed it. It was necessary either to make swamps, to restore the woods, or simply to alvar or beach meadows, and to do so this forest will be taken down. Yeah, I might actually like it better if we didn't go out there and let the forest grow, middle-aged forest grow for 40, 50, or for me, even 200 years before the lifespan of his tree circle runs out. But when such a decision is made that we need to create more swamps, it is not worth blaming the owners of the forest and it is not worth pointing out here that we abuse nature conservation. It's not like that! So let's be precise! Let's not scare the Estonian people by running out of forest. Go look outside, go a little further away from the Tallinn border! A little extra time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U419	Yeah, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U420	And if you don't, dear ambassadors, ladies and gentlemen, go here to the tower of Toompea, see that the forest shines from there, and it doesn't look like the tower of Munamägi. It's not that bad. I think that, of course, every bill can also do something, and I will say once again that I would not have come here to dissect this subject if there had not been a rude, sometimes misleading talk by the sots. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U421	There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 382 be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 13 October at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the eighth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U422	Let's move on to item nine. First reading of draft Act 386 on the approval of amendments to the Convention on International Carriage by Rail and its Annexes initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask the Minister of Economy and Infrastructure, Taavi Aasa, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U423	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The purpose of the draft is to approve, on behalf of Estonia, the amendments developed and approved by the Intergovernmental Organisation for International Carriage by Rail in 2018. The purpose of the amendments is to give Estonia's approval to update and improve the management of this organisation and the functioning of the Convention on International Carriage by Rail. This Convention is called COTIF in short. It is a system of uniform rules on the international carriage of passengers, luggage and goods by rail. COTIF's common rules apply not only to international rail transport but also to related road and water transport. Since the beginning of 2020, the 50 member states of OTIF belong to three continents: Europe, North Africa, Central Asia. The members of the organisation are all the Member States of the European Union, except Cyprus and Malta, where there are simply no railways. The common rules on passenger and freight transport contained in the Annexes to the Convention shall be applied by rail over a distance of more than 250000 kilometres. The main objective of the draft is to approve the amendments made in accordance with the Protocol adopted at Berne on 26 September 2018. The aim of the amendments is to update the rules and to clarify the language. The amendments have not yet entered into force because the necessary number of Member States have not approved them. The second objective of the draft is to enable the requirements to be used without exception throughout the Estonian rail network for both passengers and freight, which is why the current declarations made by the Republic of Estonia under the Act of Accession to the Convention on International Carriage by Rail will be abandoned in 2004. The first declaration concerns Annex A and the second Annex B.The declaration states that the Republic of Estonia applies Annex A to the Convention only to the international carriage of goods by rail in both directions of the Valga route, Annex B only to the international carriage of goods by rail in both directions of the Tallinn-Tapa-Valga route, the point of departure or destination of which is situated on the territory of a country with which it has not been otherwise agreed for carriage. The implementation of the Act does not require any additional activities, costs or benefits. The changes to be made do not affect the amount of the membership fee to be paid, as the total length of Estonian railways is so small that the additional railway network does not affect the amount of the membership fee. I would ask you to support the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U424	Thank you. There's a question for you too. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U425	Good manager! Good Minister, it's a pleasure to meet you again. Now I hear that 2018 has already been adopted by this COTIF. It's been three years, we've done something without it. My question is: what will change for people now? What's gonna change for us on the train if we take it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U426	Thank you. Indeed, nothing will change significantly for passengers. This is rather necessary for the operation of our railroad.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U427	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U428	Glad to hear we're picking up, but nothing's gonna change. But here, for example, the third article states that the safety management system will then be implemented. My question is whether it is not being implemented now. If we take the train, is there no safety management system in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U429	Certainly Estonia is already implementing a safety management system today. Definitely.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U430	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U431	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Today we heard from Peter Ernits that nothing will change for ordinary citizens. As it turns out, not much will change for technical personnel. Then why do we have to accept it if nothing changes?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U432	Thank you. Because Estonia is a member of this organisation, and the purpose of this organisation is to ensure that rail transport in the member countries is carried out smoothly, in a way that is understandable to everyone and in accordance with uniform safety rules.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U433	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U434	Thank you for your answer, Minister. But isn't rail transport now smooth, reliable, etc., as you have just mentioned?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U435	Thank you. Just as I answered the previous question: surely everything is happening smoothly, lawfully and safely in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U436	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I would now like to ask Sven Sester, Vice-Chairman of the Economic Commission, for the speech of the Riigikogu. [[Someone's sneezing.]] Cheers!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U437	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will give an overview of draft 386, which [the aim is to approve] amendments to the Convention on International Carriage by Rail and its Annexes initiated by the Government of the Republic, and what we talked about in the Commission. We first met on May 31st. I would point out, therefore, that it is already during the spring season. Minister Aas presented this concrete draft in the Commission in an analogous way, as he did today in this Chamber. It is true that this is a draft which, by its very nature, pursues two objectives. First, really approve the amendments developed and approved by the Intergovernmental Organisation for International Carriage by Rail in Bern on 26 September 2018. This was the first objective, the aim of which is to update this Convention. The second objective is to repeal the declarations laid down in the Act of Accession to the Convention on International Carriage by Rail, which were adopted by the Republic of Estonia in 2004. The aim is to allow different COTIF requirements to be used without exception throughout the Estonian rail network, both for passengers and for freight. At the moment they are only valid on the Tallinn-Tapa-Valga line. That was the overview that the Minister gave us in the Commission. The Commission no longer opened it at its meeting and went to decision-making. Such decisions were taken on 31 May. Firstly, to refer the draft to plenary by 16 June and to conclude the first reading. These decisions were taken by consensus. In the meantime, at the end of the spring season, we had less intense discussions on other issues, and in this large Chamber we did not discuss this issue on 16 June. The Commission came together later, on 14 September, and decided to put the draft on the agenda of the plenary by the 29th date, too, this decision was consensual, and today it is here on our tables. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U438	Good waitress, thank you very much. There are no questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. I ask Kalle Grünthali, representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U439	Dear Riigikogu! Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. I have told you today about this rubber stamp here that the Riigikogu is in this state, but I would say that today, an even more interesting fact is revealed. We are working here, we are adopting a law approving amendments to the Convention on International Carriage by Rail and its Annexes. But the procedure of this bill reveals that its effects or its effects do not really change anything in our lives. Nothing changes for passengers, nothing changes from the point of view of their safety, nothing changes with regard to the law, and basically nothing changes at all. Do you understand? We are working here for a long time on this bill, which is quite thick, 40.50 pages, and it is intended for each Riigikogu ambassador to be presented on paper, in addition to being on committee desks and so on. Think of a bunch of wood we've wasted to get a bill like this on paper. And it doesn't affect our lives, it doesn't affect passengers, it doesn't have any effect on safety anywhere. Why are we doing nothing? Nothing's gonna change. And when you say something's gonna change, I just realized from the Minister's report that nothing's gonna change. Why do we do this job if nothing changes? I don't understand it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U440	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed to terminate the first reading of 386 SE. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 13 October at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the ninth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U441	We will move on to the tenth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Construction Code, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask the Minister of Economy and Infrastructure, Taavi Aasa, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U442	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The government will present a draft to amend the Building Code. The aim of the draft is to transpose the revised European Union Directive on the safety management of road infrastructure and thus make Estonia's roads safer. To this end, the Building Code will be complemented by the requirements of the Directive. The Directive obliges the Transport Board and, to a limited extent, local authorities to carry out four road safety-related activities in the management of the road network: an assessment of the impact of infrastructure on road safety in the planning of an infrastructure site, an audit of road safety in the construction project, an analysis of road safety in the network and a regular inspection of the road network. The main change in substance to be taken over by the amendments to the Construction Code resulting from the Directive is an increase in the road network covered by these activities. In addition to TEN-T roads, these activities must be carried out on all major roads and on public roads built with European Union resources. The new regulation does not impose any significant additional obligations on the Transport Board, as road safety measures have already been implemented at the initiative of the Transport Board itself in the same amount. The impact on local authorities will only be felt if the local authority builds a road object by means of European Union funds. In this case, road safety measures will also have to be carried out on these sites in the future. The amendments to the Directive also entail some other, less significant and technical changes, such as changes to the methodology for road safety analysis, but are taken over by a ministerial regulation. This draft is necessary to fulfil the commitments made and to take another step towards safer roads. I would ask you to support the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U443	Minister, thank you. There are no questions. I now request Mikhail Korbi, member of the Economic Commission, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U444	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, The Commission discussed this draft twice at its meetings. This was the first time on May 31st and the second time not so long ago on September 14th. A substantive debate took place at a meeting held in May. That's where the minister introduced the bill. There was no very big discussion about the bill. The Commission unanimously took the following procedural decisions: to put the draft on the plenary agenda today and to propose that the first reading be closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U445	Dear waitress, thank you very much. There don't seem to be any questions. Thank you. Now, good fellows, if you would like to open negotiations on behalf of the political groups, please. It's an opportunity. No, I don't. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 395. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 13 October at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the tenth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U446	We will move on to the 11th item, which is the first reading of draft bill 378 on amendments to the planning law initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Please submit the speech chair of the Riigikogu to the Minister of State Administration Jaak Aabi.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U447	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I have the honour to introduce you to the draft law amending the planning law initiated by the Government of the Republic and in connection with the amendment of other laws. This is a draft whose general purpose is to clarify the wording of the provisions of the Planning Act which entered into force in 2015. There are also some fundamental initiatives and changes. Today's planning law has been in force for nearly six years, during which there have been in practice bottlenecks that need to be clarified at the level of the law. Local authorities and other important partners have also proposed solutions to save resources in planning procedures. In addition to the minor clarifications that you can read in the draft text and in the explanatory memorandum, the draft provides for some major changes that I will present to you. One of the most important changes is the creation of a legal basis for the establishment of a single database of plans. The purpose of the establishment of the planning database is to compile all data on land-based and sea-based planning in a single database. The need to establish a database has been revealed in several analyses carried out by the Ministry of Finance. For example, in 2018, there were approximately 15,000 detailed plans in force in Estonia. Only about one third of them were available in digital form. Much of the current plans will continue to be written only on paper. As a rule, the plans are in the municipal archives, the document management system and sometimes in the computer of only one official or another. The draft establishes the basis for a single database of existing plans, which is the first important step towards ordering the situation. In the data library, all parties will be able to consult the plans of the residents, entrepreneurs, local government officials, as well as state agencies and notaries. There will be a reduction in the time spent by the users of the plans and greater legal certainty in the implementation of the plans and the granting of the necessary permits on the basis of them. The risk of corruption will also be reduced by increasing transparency in decision-making on the basis of planning. The inventory of plans is under development and is expected to be completed at the beginning of next year. The completion will be followed by a "test period' and the overall implementation of the database will be in November 2022. Although the deadline for the introduction of the database is 1 January 2022, we intend to submit a proposal to the Commission to amend this deadline, as the procedure has taken longer. As far as I know, it reached the Riigikogu in the spring, but we can only process it now. There have been minor problems with the launch of the database, as is always the case with IT solutions, but they can be overcome. And on the deadline I said here, it's possible to run this database. The Ministry of Finance is actively looking for tools so that, in addition to recording new plans to be introduced in the database, previously established plans can be digitised and entered into the database. This process is actually under way, but there is certainly a need for additional resources to accelerate it. As long as the database does not have a legal basis, it is not possible to require that the plans be included. This basis should now be provided by law. And that is why this is a time-critical bill, because plans are constantly being made. The sooner we can start introducing this change, the sooner we can ensure that as many plans as possible are available to all parties. I note that the development of a single database of planning is also one of the government's objectives according to the programme of action of the Government of the Republic. In addition, the draft extends the possibilities of sending messages by electronic means in the planning process. The law in force provides that the organisers of the planning process are to send notices and documents by post by registered mail in the planning procedure. It is resource-intensive and takes a lot of extra time from plan managers, in addition to the cost of money, which could rather be used for the content issues of the plans [to be resolved]. Electronic service is also compatible with the general rules of administrative procedure where electronic service of documents is equivalent to postal service. It must be said that if the planner is unable to deliver the documents electronically, he must do so by letter. That's still the way it is. The change will speed up the planning process and help to save the resources of the organisers, in particular local authorities, which are currently spent sending notices by post. The draft also simplifies the sending of notices to residents of large apartment buildings. Upon the entry into force of the amendments to the law, you can send notifications in the future through housing associations, which are obliged to inform their members, i.e. owners. During the last year, the widespread spread of the corona virus has affected the world and the resulting different restrictions to control the spread of the virus. In this context, the draft provides that, in justified cases, in particular the restrictions imposed by the government on the conduct of public meetings, the possibility of holding public debates is also available in electronic form. This ensures that persons can participate in the discussions taking place in every place of Estonia and involve experts safely. One of the most important changes relates to the issue of developing the technical infrastructure needed to implement the detailed plan, which has so far been highlighted by various interest groups, as well as by the Chancellor of Justice, for example. According to the draft, the municipality and the person interested in the plan can agree on the construction of the technical infrastructure or its financing, in addition to the agreement on the construction of the planning area, for buildings located outside the planning area, provided that these buildings are functionally linked to the planning object and necessary for its operation, such as roads, substations, etc. The draft imposes an obligation on the municipality to issue a regulation to regulate such situations. The Regulation sets out the bases and the framework under which such contracts are to be awarded by a particular municipality. The introduction of such arrangements is also a prerequisite for the conclusion of contracts. The change will create greater legal clarity for developers on the territory of a specific municipality as to the costs that they may incur, thus providing an estimate of the necessary costs and an adequate business plan. On the other hand, local authorities retain the possibility of developing regulation that takes account of circumstances and needs. The Anti-Corruption Action Plan 2021/2025, approved by the Government of the Republic at the beginning of this year, also provides for the establishment of a legal framework for technical infrastructure agreements outside the planning area as one of the anti-corruption activities. Local needs and specificities are best known to local authorities, thus being the right party to develop the appropriate arrangements. The draft has set the deadline of 1 June 2022 but, given the expected date of adoption of the draft, it is planned to propose an extension of this deadline until 1 November 2022 in order to ensure that local authorities are able to draft the regulation in a prudent manner and apply it sensibly. In addition to the administrative reform, the merged municipalities were required to draw up a new general plan in order to create a comprehensive spatial solution throughout the territory of the new municipality. The draft provides additional time for drawing up general plans on the basis of a proposal from the municipalities. Instead of three years, the municipality will be able to draw up a general plan for up to four and a half years from the start. Additional time will also contribute to better addressing issues supporting the country's objectives, such as cultural heritage issues or wind energy. Currently, about 80% of local governments are preparing a new general plan in Estonia. Five municipalities have recently reached the introduction of a new general plan, or perhaps six, if I am not mistaken. The extension of the deadline will contribute to increasing the content and overall quality of the overall plans by reducing the pressure of time on the process of speed and planning. With regard to the proposal for the extension period, we have today based in practice on the process known to us. Finally, I would like to mention the proposed amendment to the draft with regard to the design conditions. The current Planning Act provides for the possibility to replace, in certain cases, the drawing up of a detailed plan with the granting of design conditions. The draft provides that if the municipality decides to waive the requirement to draw up a detailed plan with discretion in the cases set out in the law and wishes to make use of this possibility, the process must nevertheless be carried out in an open procedure. The amendment will help to ensure that the wider public can, however, take part in the implementation of the derogation when a decision on spatial development is taken and, for example, will not be limited to the involvement of specific border neighbours. I will also inform you that, as was the case with the Building Code which entered into force in 2015, a performance review has also been carried out to assess the legal and substantive functioning of the Planning Act and to identify the need for changes, an ex-post evaluation of the current Planning Act launched on the initiative of the Ministry of Finance in September. As part of the process, the performance of the current Planning Act as a whole, as well as its parts, will be thoroughly analysed. It is important to understand what are the specific legal problems, what is simply bad administrative practice and where, for example, there is a need to increase the competence of decision-makers. Amendments to the planning law of a more fundamental nature may also emerge from the ex-post evaluation. They will be resolved in a complex way, by means of separate legislative amendments, involving relevant stakeholders. The first results of the ex-post evaluation, including an overview of the problems based on extensive surveys, etc., and possible options should be identified in January next year. The final date for the process is summer 2022. It should be borne in mind that planning often resolves issues that give rise to conflicting opinions. One plan solution fits, the other doesn't. Finding solutions in difficult circumstances is a day-to-day planning process. It is not by law that space is planned, but by any decision to establish a specific plan. No provision in law can make the complex decisions necessary for spatial planning in the case of local governments or certain plans for the Government of the Republic. The law can provide a framework for such discussions to take place in a fair, transparent and meaningful way. As a result of this draft, we will create opportunities for this, both by ensuring better access to data and by reducing certain bureaucratic steps. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Thank you and I hope that you will support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U448	Thank you for this very meaningful overview. I'm sure there's some questions. I can see the first one. Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U449	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! These are very much necessary and substantive changes, particularly as regards investment in social infrastructure. My question is whether these social infrastructure agreements are in any way separately available and publicly available in this new database so that communities can exercise public oversight so that different developers are not discriminated against.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U450	Thank you for your question. As far as social infrastructure is concerned, it is not yet in the draft. But we actually hope to negotiate with the Commission. At present, technical infrastructure agreements have been described, which actually need to be established in accordance with the procedures adopted by the Council. We give this framework, and in every municipality, the council must put this order in place. At the moment, the problem is that many municipalities do not have that order. The parish governments and the city councils enter into these contracts. The problem is that it is not transparent and it is not clear to the public on what basis they are being made and why any additional investment is required from one developer or another, let us say so. On the subject of social infrastructure, we planned to go to the government office to introduce these different options or the basis for how social infrastructure could make such agreements with developers. But if we manage to reach an agreement on these readings in the Commission, it will also be possible to include this framework of social infrastructure agreements, how this can be done and on what basis the Council can accept it, sign it in. But that depends on the Commission's response. I agree to describe this proposal to the Commission. If it reaches the database, I can't tell you the details. First of all, we have to get to the database that we're creating here. We also want to finally get to the point where, once this database is in place, there will be an addition to the process from which we can see how the process of processing this plan is going. Now, directly these contracts are not usually related to the planning, they accompany these developments. And how to make it public, in fact, the municipalities should do it either way. But if it gets into that database, I'm gonna owe you that answer. But I'll put the question behind me.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U451	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U452	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, A very necessary and anticipated draft. As far as I am aware, the Association of Planners has presented some concerns on the coordination circle, for example, about how the amendment of the Planning Act is compatible with the amendment of the Building Code, how you cooperate with the Building Code, headed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs [for coordination]. I wonder if the comments of these planners' associations and their concerns have been taken into account. How's it going?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U453	Thank you for your question. Some of the changes that are inside, including all major changes, are coordinated with different stakeholders, including the Association of Planners. As I said, there is now a process in progress to assess whether and if so what further changes are needed. It has now been brought into line with other laws in force or the provisions have been clarified to bring them into line with other laws. But as far as the planners' association is concerned, perhaps more substantive proposals, they come within the next evaluation process. On the one hand, we need to create a legal basis for the database, which is, let us say, a time-critical step if we want to go faster with this. We have not been able to negotiate all the substantive proposals with all the parties involved. Some have arrived here, they actually concern processes, let's say, reducing resource intensity, on the other hand, inclusion. As far as I am concerned, it is also one of the proposals of the planners' association that if the municipality makes a decision not to initiate a detailed plan but to limit certain changes to the design conditions, then in future it must be a public process. Not only does it involve border neighbours, but it is a public process. This is not as substantial as the change in the detailed plan. Such proposals have also been made by the Association of Planners. I can't say exactly right now, I have to look at the coordination table how much it has been taken into account in a particular draft. But we have told all parties that right now we are collecting these proposals concerning the entire current period of validity of this planning law, which is six years. If there are any proposals, we will evaluate them with the parties. For the next summer, we will have negotiated with all parties what substantive or technical changes would still need to be made to this law. This process is in progress. We have also taken a consultant who will help us and coordinate with various actors, including planners, local authorities, developers, and anyone who will definitely be in contact with this issue, as well as public authorities. We should have a preliminary overview by January of the direction in which the amendments are to be made, and with negotiations and involvement we will reach out in the summer to the understanding of the list of the following changes that need to be made to this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U454	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U455	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Such an overview of the process, which shows what kind of planning is and who are responsible at each stage, is undoubtedly extremely important. This allows us to understand where the stumps behind these plans are somewhere in the process for years or decades. And I hope that this information will be public and local people will see who is carrying these things and who is slowing them down. However, in today's law, the time limits for proceedings are relatively specific. Despite this, the municipalities still manage to stall these plans for years and decades. What measures could be taken in this draft law to improve the management of the plans?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U456	Thank you for your question. I'm sure it'll help with the database. Then everything will be transparent and visible, and perhaps there will also be a process that, in fact, these public engagements can be publicly monitored and monitored on this same platform, as well as those behind them. Unfortunately, the time limits of the law alone will not work. I will not go into the details, but perhaps the bureaucratic apparatus will have an impact somewhere, and also when there is a greater public interest in developments and conflicts of interest arise. Then this process will always be prolonged. Unfortunately or luckily, I don't know, but usually the capital and the surrounding areas have the greatest interest. It has the greatest value for development. That's how he tends to be. I have plans to talk to Tallinn City Government about this in the near future. I know about Tallinn's problems, you all know, don't you? So this question was probably the questioner [targeted] in this direction too. In some small municipalities, however, these deadlines are exactly as stated in the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U457	Thank you. Toomas Järveoja.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U458	Thank you, good waitress. Surely this is a necessary law. I also surfed my municipality of residence in the GIS environment during your presentation. I think it's pretty nice to have all the plans up there, too, so-called plans to be made. What about the situation across Estonia? Are all municipalities as good as the municipality of Elva?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U459	Thank you for your question. It's hot! Just as I was trying to generalise here, the plans that are currently being made are generally in digital form. However, we also want the comprehensive plans that municipalities are currently doing so that they are immediately included in the database. 63 municipalities have actually initiated a change in the overall plan, which was required by law, or an administrative reform in order to prepare a new general plan. And, unfortunately, this situation is different. But the older plans are really somewhere on paper in the archives and so on. If we can get them all into that database, we're gonna have to work for it for a long time. This work is done quietly. Local authorities are also doing this work to digitise them, but it is likely that there might also be a need for help in terms of resources. I'm not talking about any parts of county planning that have been done before. So the field of work is wide, I'd say. And unfortunately, the situation varies from one municipality to another, it is not even.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U460	Thank you very much, Minister. Looks like there's no more questions right now. Thank you. I now ask Riho Breiveli, member of the Economic Commission, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U461	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, If we look at this draft law, bill 378, its procedure has also been so that it was first discussed on Tuesday, 18 May, and via the video bridge. Then there was a major substantive debate. Procedural decisions were also taken that this would come before the Riigikogu on 9 June, but we know that there were other problems then. The second meeting of the Commission was held on 14 September and then the decision was taken that the draft would be discussed today, that is 29 September. And a decision was taken to send a draft law amending the planning law initiated by the Government of the Republic and related to the amendment of other laws to the first reading of 378 and then to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda today. If we look at this first meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, where it was essentially a matter of discussion on 14 September, we were only discussing the initiation of the procedure, then it can be said that this session discussed this issue thoroughly. It was also discussed in the direction that it is very, how to say, such a sensitive question, which is planning. It covers a wide range of municipalities, practically all of them, it covers a wide range of companies, including individuals individually. So this issue must be taken very seriously. Jaak Aab, Minister, also there, introduced to us all the problems he presented today in even greater volumes than we did in our May session. So it was, how to say, so fundamental. We also discussed a number of questions. I myself commented on this planning law, that it concerns many areas and concerns serious interests and that conflicts of interest may arise. And the question was, maybe not to make improvements, but to make a new law in this regard. But the minister explained that a more thorough ministry analysis is about to begin and that proposals can be presented among all members of the Riigikogu and all [interest groups], as he said here today. This whole thing's kind of working. There were also practically questions from other members of the Commission. The questions generally concerned the content of what the Minister was talking about. [He spoke] thoroughly out of those [questions] that are, how to say, solving. Counselor Külli Siim gave him a second. The members of the Riigikogu asked various questions and practically the result was that this [draft] goes to first reading. This is practically the way it is to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda today.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-29_U462	Thank you very much, good waitress. Looks like it's clear, there don't seem to be any questions here. Thank you for your presentation. And now there is really a chance for the political groups to open negotiations. Is that a wish? I don't think so. Then we won't open negotiations. Now, Mr Breivel said that the position of the commission is to conclude the first reading of 378 SEs. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 13 October at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 11th item is also closed. Good fellows, today's session is closed. Thank you! Have a safe journey home!
