ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! It's 10:00, it's Tuesday. We will begin the Tuesday session of the 10th working week of the VI session. The members of the Riigikogu are now able to deliver drafts and questions. The first to register is Riina Sikkut from the Social Democratic Party. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U2	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of a whole series of Social Democrats, I am going to refer an inquiry to Mr Tanel Kiige, Minister of Health and Labour. It's about preparedness... [[In the diner.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U3	Riina, I'm sorry! Ladies and gentlemen, [[It's ringing the bell.]] Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U4	This concerns how to deal with the further spread of coronal infection. On the one hand, we have really had a year and a half experience. Expectations are different, always dissatisfied. But if we look from here on: why is there still a rolling response, which is a longer plan to meet the fourth wave, what kind of preparations are being made, what expenditure is foreseen in the budget, what legislative changes are being planned so that the next wave does not lead to avoidable loss of health and lives? Similarly, neither the Health Board nor the Ministry of Social Affairs can deal with crisis management alone, how better is it planned to involve local authorities, as well as schools, health and care institutions? December last year was a fine month in this sense that vaccination began at the end of December. But it also means that a lot of people are about to have a year full of the first vaccination cycle. Not to mention it's a long time ago for an effective dose. What are the actions to increase the coverage of older people as a risk group? What are these objectives? Once the first vaccination cycle has been completed, what vaccination coverage is planned for the longer term? What resources are available to the health care system to enable hospitals to be prepared for the fourth wave and, for example, to be prepared at the primary level to increase the coverage of vaccination? The hope is that one day this corona will end. But we do not know what the exit strategy is so that we do not live in a crisis environment all the time, society can function as normally as possible, but the spread of infection is controlled. How do we find this equilibrium point? We are waiting for a quick answer and an interesting debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U5	Thank you. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Isamaa Group, I am handing over the Act amending the VAT Act [draft]. As we all know and sense, the price of electricity is in record heights. The Government of the Republic has not reached any real position on how to promptly compensate for this completely abnormal and extreme level of electricity prices, compensate for or find practical solutions for both domestic consumers and Estonian entrepreneurs in order to maintain the competitiveness of the economy. It is now winter time, heating and high electricity consumption, and there is a need to make quick rational decisions. The reduction of VAT on electricity, gas and heat is one of the quick options that is universal and with which we can help both Estonian entrepreneurs and domestic consumers. The Isamaa Group envisages reducing VAT from the current 20% to 9%. The Centre Party, as we know, has raised this [issue] several times in the coalition, they have promised that they will also support the reduction of VAT. We hope that the hall here is not simply divided into coalition and opposition, but is based on the interests of consumers and the Estonian economy and on the real interests of the people. So we hope that the draft will be dealt with quickly and meaningfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U7	Okay. I don't see any more calls. Consequently, we have adopted one draft and one inquiry. The Management Board will normally decide how to deal with them in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. But now, ladies and gentlemen, there is an opportunity to carry out a presence check. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U8	76 members of the Riigikogu registered.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U9	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the draft Act on Supplementing the Law on Safety at Sea, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 455. We're in the middle of a third reading. During the third reading, as you know, it is possible for the representatives of the political groups to speak during the negotiations. Aivar Kokk wants to use this opportunity on behalf of the Isamaa Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U10	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Just as before, the chairman of our party handed over a draft here to allow for a 20% VAT on electricity and cooperation between the coalition and the opposition, there has been a last-minute amendment to the Maritime Safety Act, a 50% reduction in the fee for waterways. This is a good example of the possibility of cooperation between the opposition and the coalition. It took about two weeks for the government at that time to make difficult decisions when it adopted the additional budget for 2020. Thanks to this, very many Estonian entrepreneurs and people were able to save themselves from the economic crisis caused by COVID's problems. One of them was the reduction in the fee for waterways. While fewer and fewer ships came to Estonian ports each year before that, because the additional budget for 2020 reduced the fee for waterways to 0% or 100%, more ships came to Estonia, although fewer ships came to neighbouring ports. In this year's example, it is very good to show that if the State supported [ports] by way of funds not paid for waterways with a fee of 9 to 18 million, according to various calculations and calculations, the [inversely] EUR 32 million was paid more into the state budget. When the state budget reached the Riigikogu this year, support for waterways was not foreseen for the following year. At one point, the paper of the Economic Commission arrived at 25%. The Group of the Riigikogu, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, made a clear proposal that the reduction in the fee for waterways should be at least 50%. In the Committee on Economic Affairs, ladies and gentlemen of the EKRE made a similar proposal. The Committee on Economic Affairs did not want to support this 50% support, and at that point a further 45% subsidy rate went through. In the Committee on Finance, just as a year ago, when adopting the state budget for 2021, when my proposal to reduce to 50% was supported, the coalition had also realised very clearly this time that if you give away 16 million or 18 million from one pocket and 32 million into the other, it is still a very good business. Supporting businesses and entrepreneurship is, I think, one of the most important tasks in this hall, because business generates revenue from taxes. If there are benefits, then there is something to reallocate and support those who need support. I thank the coalition for supporting the Fatherland proposal. In addition to the [amendment] of this fee for waterways, an important amendment has been introduced here. When discussing the budget of the Riigikogu tomorrow, or the state budget for the following year, support for passenger ships is also in question, as they are among the largest taxpayers in Estonia. In the Baltic Sea, the flagship of shipping is based on our own capital, the Estonian capital [based] Tallink. But it is also important to support [based] Finnish capital and other passenger ships, because the traffic between Estonia, Finland and Sweden is both economical and important for our people and businesses. We also thank for its support and the opportunity to move forward next year with the measures that the previous coalition did with the additional budget, which has shown that they are useful for the Estonian economy and necessary for the people of Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U11	On behalf of the Centre Party Group, Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U12	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The faction of the Centre Party has advocated allocating EUR 16 million to the maritime sector, which is vital for Estonia as a maritime state, and which contributes to increasing Estonia's competitiveness. There have been major waves in both passenger and cargo shipping over the last two years. In passenger shipping, the Baltic Sea countries are competing with each other and shipping companies need to consider which country is the most economically viable place to organise their activities. Maritime trade and the welfare of ports are essential for Estonia's economy as a maritime state. Maritime companies account for around 4% of gross domestic product, comparable to [part of] agriculture. The wider impact of maritime trade is, of course, not limited to maritime affairs. Access to ports has a significant impact on the entire investment and economic environment. Estonia has no control over the realization of external developments. The main thing we can do is ensure that Estonia is competitive as a production location for both foreign and Estonian investors. The crisis in COVID-19, which started in 2020, largely stopped passenger transport between different ports to Finland and Sweden, but to a certain extent goods transport continued. As a result, operators of passenger ships were in a critical situation, as it was not possible to cover the high fixed costs for passenger ships. As regards the mitigation of restrictions, passenger ferry traffic has partially recovered, but pre-crisis levels have not been reached and passenger numbers show a drop of almost 50% compared to the same period last year. The tax support measure proposed in the draft will help shipowners to reduce costs, accelerate the exit from the COVID-19 crisis and ensure that jobs and tax revenues for the State are maintained. For the maritime sector, it is very important that in 2022 the waterway charge has been reduced by 50% and that passenger ship operators are reimbursed EUR 7.7 million in labour costs. The reduction in the fee has a positive impact on the logistics sector in Estonia as a whole, so it is necessary to continue with the reduced rate in the coming years. This will ensure that the volume of goods passing through Estonia continues to increase, which in turn will also have a positive effect on the state budget due to increased volumes of goods and taxes on them. The reduced rates of waterway charges in force so far have increased the volume of goods in Estonian ports. For example, the cargo volumes of the Port of Tallinn increased by 1.4 million tonnes, while the volumes of other ports in the Baltic Sea fell. The flow of goods through our ports in the north-south direction will be added to the construction of Rail Baltic in the future. This will help to bring transit goods to our ports in Finland, but it will also create prerequisites for production and value-adding reprocessing in the vicinity of the new railway. The shift in the focus of the global economy beyond Europe and the ageing and shrinking population in our continent are trends affecting the geographical distribution of global freight transport. Nevertheless, the growth in the volume of sea freight is expected and Estonia has the opportunity to benefit from it. Experts in the logistics sector estimate that the competitiveness of maritime freight transport, such as road and rail, will not deteriorate. The estimated cost to the state budget of reducing the water fee by 50% is approximately EUR 9 million, while the positive impact may amount to EUR 16 million of the circa. I'd like a minute, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U13	One minute more time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U14	Non-compliance with the reduced rate could lead to a reduction in the volume of port cargo, which according to the Estonian Ports Association could amount to 7.5 million tonnes, which would have a negative impact on the circa 87 million euros. If you care about the welfare of Estonia as a maritime state, then I and the Central Party Group will call on the draft to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U15	On behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Peeter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U16	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I wasn't planning on coming here. Some colleagues believe that modesty is a virtue, but today I cannot say that modesty is a virtue. I just wanted to point out, not to say for a long time, that this proposed amendment, which the coalition and the whole hall accounted for, was actually a proposal from the EKRE to lower 50%. This is simply to be noted, because in this fairly schizophrenic situation, where, in fact, opposition and coalition could try to act in the same way, it is such a bright, lone sunshine. I would, of course, like to thank the entire Chamber and the Coalition on behalf of our group. Looking at the state budget's proposals for improvement, of those 45, unfortunately, everyone went into the trash bin, although there were very smart ones, whether it was 20 million for [money] savers or higher education institutions, which would have helped to alleviate the situation so that Estonian universities would not quickly turn into English. But, unfortunately, they didn't find any support. As far as maritime affairs are concerned, maritime affairs have, strangely enough been a priority in this Chamber, albeit with great battles. I remember that many previous formations have discussed bringing the ships under the Estonian flag, even if Tarmo Kõuts was still an admiral: with his head against the wall, he did not succeed. But after long battles, we have succeeded together, and the amendments to several laws have gone through. We are moving towards turning Estonia into a maritime state again. Can we make it to 300 cargo ships? I hope we can reach, maybe even more, but in any case, the ice is broken. I am not going to say anything else, just to thank my fellow Members from the coalition on behalf of our group. That's actually the way it should be. The important thing is not only the sea, but also the heat. Today, when, at 8:00 and 9:00 hours, the price on the power exchange had risen to space at 1 000 euros per megawatt-hour and will soon rise again at 1 000, such things should also be resolved together and relatively quickly. This is much more important than the 50% reduction in the current waterway charge. This would affect practically the entire Estonian people. So let us try to act on more important issues in the same way as we have now found consensus! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U17	Annely Akkermann on behalf of the Estonian Reform Party Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U18	Good morning from me too! The debate on today's law on supplementing maritime safety could, in my opinion, be titled in such a way that a good child has many vaders. This decision was made in cooperation, and all political parties want to be vapers of this decision. Indeed, the Committee on Economic Affairs worked very hard, as did the government, of course, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, to find funds in the budget to reduce the fee for water. This term is "waterway charge," not "waterway charge." There's a slight difference. Why not? Measures to support shipping are not only measures to support shipping but also measures to support the economy of Estonia as a whole. Passenger ships serve routes between Estonia and Finland and Sweden and, as we know, these countries are also Estonia's largest trading partners, while they account for 25% of Estonia's export volume. What else might be worth noting is that last year, due to the reduction in the fee for water, the fee had also been reduced by 50% since March, the volume of goods in the Port of Tallinn increased by 7%, while the total volume of goods in the Baltic Sea region decreased by 7.9%, which suggests that we may have had too high a fee for water before the pandemic. The government also plans to continue with the special regime for passenger ships, which means the refund of labour taxes in the amount paid in Estonia from income tax, social security contributions and the tax base of crew members, which is the 2.5-fold difference between the minimum wage rate calculated for ratings 1,5 and the minimum wage for managers. Okay. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you all for your excellent cooperation on this draft and for my part I call on you to support it. I would point out that this bill is also linked to the state budget, so that the state budget still needs to be supported in order to reduce the water fare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U19	Okay. Looks like we're done negotiating now. The commission has proposed a final vote on the draft and we will prepare it. Honourable Riigikogu, I would like to vote before you on the draft law amending the Law on Safety of Seas, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 455. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U20	The draft is supported by 73 members of the Riigikogu and there are no opposing and impartial members. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U21	Our second item today is the second reading of draft law 413 on the amendment of the pharmaceutical law initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. Siret Kotka, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee of the Chair, will be presented by the Social Affairs Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U22	Good chairman of the sitting! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! In the Committee on Social Affairs, the draft law amending the Law on Medicinal Products and related amendments to other laws 413 was discussed between the first reading and the second reading at the meeting of 15 November and 22 November. At its meeting on 18 October, the Commission discussed the draft with stakeholders. The members of the Riigikogu, political groups and other committees of the Riigikogu submitted no amendments to the draft. In preparing the draft, the Committee on Social Affairs asked stakeholders involved in the Ministry of Social Affairs for an opinion on the draft. The opinion was sent and attended by the Social Affairs Committee on 18 October at the North Estonian Regional Hospital and the Estonian Nuklear Medicine Society. After hearing their position, the Ministry of Social Affairs submitted ten amendments to the Commission. In particular, representatives of the North Estonian Regional Hospital and the Estonian Nuclearmed Society disagreed with the solution proposed in the draft on the manufacture of radiopharmaceutical preparations, which means that all manufacturers of radiopharmaceutical preparations have a separate manufacturing unit and the activity is not related to hospital pharmacy. So now this change is in here. In cooperation with the Agency, a separate legal regulation on the manufacture of radiopharmaceutical preparations is established, separated from the requirement for hospital pharmacy authorisation. The proposal now establishes a legal basis for the manufacture of radiopharmaceuticals which do not require authorisation to manufacture medicinal products when radiopharmaceuticals are prepared for use within their own facilities. I will give you a brief introduction to these amendments. Amendments 1 to 3 relate to the manufacture and production of radiopharmaceutical preparations. Amendment no. 4 relates to the prescription centre. Amendment 5 concerns the Ethics Committee for Clinical Trials. Amendment 6 relates to the application for authorisation of the manufacture of radiopharmaceuticals. Amendments 7 to 9 relate to the amendment of the Medical Device Act. Amendment 10 relates to entry into force provisions and numbering changes. The Commission adopted all these amendments in a consensual manner and also took decisions to put the draft on the plenary agenda today, 7 December, the decision was consensual, to propose the termination of the second reading, which was also a consensual decision, and to authorise the chairman of the committee to sign the draft procedural documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U23	There's no questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. Please, Anti Division!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U24	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The EKRE Group is concerned about such drafts. Why? It is because the European Union has a habit of increasingly and increasingly pushing into the different areas of competence of the Member States in all areas. For example, this ESM we have just discussed was the power hijacked in the grey zone, the power hijacked from raw Member States. This situation has actually put us on a financial bomb. A financial bomb is as dangerous as an airplane bomb or worse. So this is one example of how the power of the Member States is being hijacked. One typical quote from this draft [of the introduction]: "The draft will bring the pharmaceutical legislation into line with European Union legislation laying down rules on clinical trials on medicinal products for human use, clinical trials on veterinary medicinal products and the medicinal product of the hospital dispenser. " Why? Why are we giving up our ability to decide on drugs? What will this eventually lead to? This kind betrayal of everything will lead to von der Leyen reappearing and saying that, friends, we should discuss the compulsory vaccination in the European Union. Holy shit! Who is he? Who is it that it brutally pushes the Member States? He should never do that. Now, the Court of Justice of the European Union should intervene and ask who you are, what you are hijacking here, what your next plan is. I'll tell you what their next plan is. But I also recall what subsidiarity means. I quote: "The subsidiarity principle (also the subsidiarity principle) is one of the central principles of the EU, according to which EU policy decisions must always be taken at the lowest administrative and political level possible and as close as possible to the citizens. " On the contrary! Everything is done the other way around. The more you can take away from the Member States, the more proud. We were just discussing the European Public Prosecutor's Office. They also want to steal power, hijack and steal. That's the word. Maybe you're doubting that maybe I'm overreacting. Maybe I'm exaggerating. But I thank my good colleague Urmas Reinsalu here, who gave me a very good hint [of this] in the new German coalition agreement. I quote on page 130, where the future of the European Union has been discussed: the conference on the future of the European Union is where I am now the representative of Estonia, and must become a convention giving the Constitution. The activities of the Convention and of the Convention must develop into a federal European alliance. Now we're gonna hear it in public. For decades, we've been trying to break this brutal lie that we're not moving towards the Federation. It is not just the idea of mad Verhofstadt; it is actually the official ideology of the German, the largest Member State: to create a constitutional assembly and create a state. It's a public statement. This is not just about drugs, but about all the areas of life they want to hijack. The question is whether we have a constitution at all, whether we have sovereignty, whether we have a country, if such statements dare to come out in the leading Member State. This is a very bad sign, and next year will be intense. I saw Verhofstadt's actions when he declared that he was going to seize power at the convention with his federalists and make it dance to his own accord. So there are very high risks that we're being pushed to the Federation. I call on everyone to be very attentive, both in detail and in the big picture, because if the largest Member State and its government are demanding a federal state, then we are in a lot of trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U25	Kalle Grünthal, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U26	Ladies and gentlemen,
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U27	Ladies and gentlemen, If you have conversations, especially across the hall, maybe you can go to the cafeteria, otherwise it's awfully complicated. It sounds in the microphones, and it goes into the verbatim.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U28	Ladies and gentlemen, We are dealing here today with the amendment of the pharmaceutical law and in this connection with the amendment of other laws [draft]. Before I get to the substance of this thing, I'm going to tell you a little preface. At 9:30 today, I received a phone call from Järvamaa. One person crying reported that his father died. He said he was asked to put his father under his shoulders and go to get a vaccine shot. What happened? After receiving the injection, Dad went to his car and collapsed there, his heart stopped. He was resuscitated, called an ambulance, taken to the clinic in Tartu, but it was too late. Brain death. There is no one [more]. It's a tragedy for this family. Tears. How can we cope further? For our authorities, this is a side effect, perhaps if it goes into the register, globally, and for Estonia, it is statistics that do not reflect human suffering and suffering. The man went, believed in the government, believed in counsel, and put it on his shoulder. He's gone. Why am I saying all this? Because these vaccines are being pressed and imposed on us by every means possible. Despite the fact that we do not have a compulsory vaccination, it is still being applied very forcefully. There is one very large deficit in this whole process. After all, the public has been told that these are experimental vaccines, the effects of which are not yet known. Perhaps our people are subjected to human trials, carried out on the basis of an agreement between the European Union and Pfizer and Janssen and Moderna and AstraZeneca pharmaceutical companies, to which Estonian citizens do not have access. We don't know what these contracts contain. A new approach has now been developed to find out what the properties of the medicines will be. So a new approach to human trials. This draft, as the previous speaker, Anti Poolamets said, brings the medicine law into line with European Union legislation laying down rules on clinical trials on medicinal products for medical use and the medicinal product for hospital dispensers. Perhaps with this law we are taking over the European Union directive, which tells us what we can do. Within the framework of this law, it is noteworthy that these are advanced therapy medicinal products, medicinal products called medicinal products, which are divided into gene therapy, somatic cell therapy and tissue engineered medicinal products, and which offer patients new therapies for the treatment of certain types of diseases and dysfunctions. In principle, it is all worded very correctly, but is our Estonian population such that we can fully legitimise human attempts here? I think that although there are very good points in this law, there is absolutely no way of transposing the European Union directive. The regulation of the hospital exemption, which is mentioned in this law, allows to plan specific developments and opportunities for cooperation between Estonian universities, biotechnology companies and hospitals. Nice talk, but just words! The point is that there is a very strong genetic engineering company in Estonia called Icosagen, whose research directors are Mart Ustav and Mart Ustav Jr., who has proved by laboratory research that, for example, the developed nasal spray works equally well against the corona in all chorona virus variants. The result: it was banned or our attitude towards the embryo of certain animals, or something like that, is very unfriendly. By now, the scientists of the same Icosagen have come up with a new medicine for corona. All it takes is clinical trials to treat the corona. The Health Board and the Government of the Republic essentially rejected this proposal, were not interested. So the reality is that on the basis of this same law, Estonian residents have been legalised as pilot polygons to treat new diseases, already using gene therapy, somatic cell therapy and tissue technology, which, based on the [cleared] results so far, result in very significant side effects. We don't need deaths, we need people treated with drugs that are controlled. Let the other countries of the European Union do it. We will not accept them until they are verified and reliable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U29	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Let us examine the amendments that have been made to this draft. They've been made ten, all by the lead commission, and taken into full account. First, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth. We have examined the amendments. The commission has proposed that the second reading of the draft be discontinued. We have completed the second reading of the draft law amending the pharmaceutical law initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 413.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U30	Our third item today is the draft law amending the State Assets Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 421 [second reading]. The rapporteur is Kristen Michal, Chair of the Economic Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this draft, i.e. the draft law amending the State Assets Act, on 23 November. In general, the debate concerned three amendments. Three amendments have also been sent to the Chamber. They have all come as submitted by the Economic Commission or with the support of the Economic Commission by the Ministry of Finance. I'll go over them briefly. The first proposal concerns such a possible case where, for example, the State has received a property from a municipality, an immovable property, and grants it to the municipality. According to earlier logic, the State should have asked for a part of it when it was transferred, but it would be somewhat strange if it was obtained, for example, for school or whatever, that it would be temporarily returned and then asked for money. This [proposal] will solve such cases in the future if the property has been transferred from one ownership to another. As a practical example, the Ministry of Finance pointed out that if the state had needed new premises for a state school located on the territory of the municipality, for example the school needed to move to another area, and if the school received new premises, the need would fall away, these [rooms] would be returned free of charge to the original owner. Under the current State Assets Act, in the case of a further transfer of such immovable property or the loading of such immovable property, it is as if 65% of the normal value of the property should be charged to the State. In short, it is a correction that makes legislation more sensible, more rational and fairer. The second [proposal] is rather technical, as is the third. This concerns the fact that companies do not have to submit different financial forecasts on several occasions; it will be synchronised with the budgetary strategy process of the country. They shall provide their input in the country's budgetary strategy process by 15 July, instead of 1 March. The third is rather a technical proposal. One of the things we discussed was the input of the Chamber of Commerce to make the state's participation in foundations more flexible. In the Commission, the Ministry of Finance confirmed that further improvements are also planned to address this issue, precisely with the same idea, the input of the Chamber of Commerce had to be that the State would not impose any further restrictions on participation in foundations, otherwise this would hinder private sector interest. We now come to the procedural proposals: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 7 December, by consensus, to propose that the second reading be closed, by consensus, and when the second reading is closed, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda and that the final vote be held on 15 December, also by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U32	There's no questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. No requests, I'll close the negotiations. Let's look at the amendments that you heard, three. All by the Committee on Economic Affairs and fully accounted for. First, second and third. The amendments have been accepted. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading. We're done with second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U33	Okay. Our fourth item today is "The development plan for the digital society in Estonia until 2030." Here the Riigikogu has the opportunity to listen to the Minister of Entrepreneurship and Information Technology Andres Sutti by the Government of the Republic. Please! I would point out that Mr Sut will be able to perform for 20 minutes and then the Chair of the Economic Commission, Kristen Michal, will also have up to 20 minutes to present. Each member of the Riigikogu can ask an oral question to each of the two rapporteurs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U34	Thank you. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I am before you today to introduce the "Estonian Digital Society Development Plan for 2030." We have built a digital society for over 27 years, built together and cross-party, since the Tigger Jump. In 1994, the basic principles for the development of digital society were first born, which were adopted by the Riigikogu in 1998. As the first national e-Tax service, we now understand much better than in 2000 when the digital state started its way. The digital state has helped people and businesses to organise their lives better and more conveniently. We have created a unique ecosystem that is difficult to copy. Dig has brought us world-wide recognition. This is where digital solutions transforming the world into unicorn grow and grow. Digi has helped us to be greater than the population or economy would expect. Estonia has been a pioneer. Now it's time to set a target for the next mountain summit. Digi has become a part of our daily life. There is only one world with physical and digital space. Digitalisation is key to halting global warming and enabling innovation. Digital is at the same time a basic need that must be guaranteed, whatever we do on a daily basis, as well as a competitive advantage. In order to continue to be a pioneer, it is not enough merely to put in place the existing technology, but to have a customer-centred approach and the introduction of the latest technology. And all that cyber-security. It is these principles that we have drawn up a new development plan for the digital society. Good Riigikogu! On 7 October this year, the Government of the Republic approved the "Estonian Digital Society Development Plan 2030," which I will present to you here for discussion. This development plan is a continuation of the current information society development plan. Digital society is a horizontal issue, an important issue of governance, and digital today affects every aspect of life and the economy as a whole. This is why in the development plan we have presented a broader vision for the future of the digital society in Estonia, if it is a specific development plan itself, which includes developments in digital state development, cyber security and communication. The vision is one that needs to be supported in different areas and with different development plans. The corresponding expectations for other areas are also set out in this development plan. For example, in order to implement the vision, it is necessary for Estonia to have more and more digitally-skilled smart people who drag the digital revolution and create solutions. We must contribute to this by implementing the relevant development plan in the field of education and, for example, by significantly more funding ICT higher education and, in particular, doctoral studies. Follow-up is the largest bottleneck in digital development. We know this and we are already looking for solutions so that thousands of people can be implemented immediately to build digital Estonia. The more specific content of the vision and development plan is driven by the fact that Estonia is rightly known in the world as an advanced digital society, but we know that we can do more and that in some areas of life there is a entanglement between digital roads. Our challenge is to keep and build on the valuable digital solutions that have been built so far, but at the same time to create and introduce new, e-Estonia at the same time, both to insure and build on. Ambition can only be one: that digital opportunities are really implemented everywhere in Estonia and in all the best ways. This is the best way to achieve national strategic goals for people's well-being. This is why the development plan has been formulated as a vision for Estonia to be full of digital forces. "Vägi" is an important word for Estonians at all, one of the 300 oldest Estonian words. What exactly does it mean to Estonia when we are full of digital forces? This means, for example, that the services work exactly according to my needs and reach me when I need them, and in the way I wish, wherever in Estonia or in the corner of the world I am. That we are protected by the digital army, that our digital life is secure and that we are moving forward boldly in digital development. Since our economy is digital, digital solutions are the engine of the whole economy. That we value every person in the digital army and create a common future, with smart solutions, we are increasingly integrated and services are accessible to all. That Estonia has a fertilized surface to create future solutions, that means that Estonia has excellent conditions for creating, testing and bringing new solutions to the world. That Estonia is a breeding ground for unicorns. As has been said, the vision is wider than specifically the development plan itself. The development plan for the digital society, however, lays the foundations for a broad vision in three areas. First, the development of the digital state, second, connectivity, third, cybersecurity. I'm gonna stop each of these three a little bit longer. Firstly, developments in the digital state. In order to achieve vision, we have focused on the quality of public services and public administration in the digital state, which marks the next stage of maturity and development of the digital state. While IT use has so far been primarily aimed at improving the efficiency of the public sector, we are now shifting the value created for people to the centre, in the form of user experience. The best experience of the digital state is a more precise goal. As a measure, this means that satisfaction increases in the quality of services. Targeting the development of the digital state needs to be tackled in two ways: to bring the digital state to the next level with new development moves, while keeping the digital state so far created sustainable and up-to-date. We are already working on the following major development leaps: developing digital state services into proactive and event-based services, increasing the human-centredity of the digital state, making people and businesses more in control of their data, developing cratches, or virtual helpers, in every area of life, and we are therefore more efficient. In addition, we make the services and information of the state more widely used in the form of #bürocrat accessible through a smart virtual assistant. We will also see that our digital state is environmentally friendly, or green. In order to ensure the sustainability of the digital state, it is necessary to manage digital services on a strong and uniform basis, to manage the country with high quality data, to create opportunities for the private sector, to strongly contribute to innovation in the digital state and to bring expansions to the world, to help different public authorities design and implement digital changes, and to many other things. Secondly, the connectivity goal is simple: By 2030, very fast, reliable and affordable communication will be available in Estonia, regardless of location. To this end, we will improve the availability and affordability of communication services in rural areas through the development of access networks. It is important to develop 5G base infrastructure and service provision in order to be ready for 6G in the future. A high-speed internet must also be available, for example, in important human traffic corridors. We take the main highways: Tallinn-Tartu, Tallinn-Narva, Tallinn-Pärnu and so on. All of this requires an appropriate and up-to-date legal space and supervision. Thirdly, cybersecurity is the enabler of digital society. Without it, there would be no trust without which digital services would have no meaning or effect. Therefore, in cyber security, the goal is that cyberspace is secure, reliable and resistant to cyber threats. An example of this is that people do not avoid using digital services due to risks. In order to reach this goal, we are taking steps in three directions, all of which are actually related to maintaining home security and raising basic capabilities to the necessary level. For example, the national organisation of the sector must become appropriate, respond to the risks, allow for the sharing of power between the various parties. To this end, we will also present the Commission and the Riigikogu to update the Cyber Security Act. We must be able to anticipate risks and threats more and take action against them early, which means developing analytical capacity. Of course, we can't anticipate all the threats, and there's no reason to put all the threats to rest. Therefore, there is a need to continuously increase the capacity to ensure the daily level of cyber security, as stagnation would be a setback. Good Riigikogu! Finally, I will also talk about the money that no good plan can be implemented without. The role of development plans in the organisation of the state is to be a set of wishes, not a long list, but also a plan covered by resources as a whole. The development plan is the basis for applying for money in order to achieve the goals. We have estimated a total need of just over EUR 1.2 billion over a decade. This is in the order of 4% of current GDP over 10 years. But by doing this work well, we will certainly provide a significant boost for GDP growth as well. Dig's an investment in the future. This figure includes and takes into account the financing already decided up to 2030, including external resources and the current state budget basis for implementing the development plan's policies. In addition, there is an additional need, which we will have to apply for in the future in the state budget, compared to the overall assessment of the cost of implementing the policies. There will already be additional funding to implement the Digital Society Development Plan in the coming years, whether it is 69 million last miles of European Union funds or more than 90 million euro of the European Union recovery facility for the development of the digital state and for the provision of basic services. With the state budget for 2022, 30 additional million will be available to secure the digital state and cyber security for different government institutions, which must become a permanent part of the basic funding with the following national budgets and national budgetary strategies. But we have the money to work towards meeting the 2030 targets in cooperation between the government, the Riigikogu, different political parties and different sectors. We will find more solutions and tools, especially for rapid communication connections, so that Estonia is really covered with them. Estonia will only be full of digital forces in cooperation and cooperation. The development plan for the digital society will be implemented through the digital society programme and the Ministry responsible will be the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. It is therefore also our job to submit budget requests to the government and the Riigikogu, if there is political support for this, which I wish and believe is. The completed development plan provides direction and basis for this. Thanks for listening, and I'm ready to answer all your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U35	The questions will begin with Jüri Jaanson. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U36	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. It is a great pleasure that the development plan is ready and can be seen from a perspective. Thank you also for your excellent presentation! I just have a question from the consumer's point of view, I think, of what you said at the end. Will and to what extent speed up the availability of solutions for the last mile of the development plan across Estonia, especially in the regions?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U37	The development plan will certainly provide a framework and support for this. As stated in the development plan as a goal, by 2030 the whole of Estonia will have to be covered by a high-speed internet. That's where I want to be. 2030 is still good for many years, but already fast internet connections are under way, and the new year will receive more funding so that we can actually reach the people and businesses that need the fast internet.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U38	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U39	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. That was a really nice story you guys were telling me. Indeed, high-speed internet access everywhere, in every corner of Estonia is extremely important. I will continue with the question of a good colleague, Jüri Jaanson, who asked about the last mile, but I am asking very specifically, I am asking about my constituency, namely Hiiumaa. We, the previous coalition, agreed to allocate EUR 3 million to a pilot project in Hiiumaa so that this fast internet would reach every household. But when the new government came, they wouldn't talk about it anymore. The people of Hiiumaa are concerned. Your party partner, who lives in Hiiumaa, has also recently written an article about this. Now I ask again: if it used to be [talking] about electrification of all the land, how is it going to be today with the rapid Internetisation of all of Hiiumaa?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U40	According to memory, there should be 3.2 million in Hiiumaa's envelope, which will open as soon as the application round is announced. I've been to Hiiumaa several times myself. I think the Chinese have done a very good preparatory work, we have also called on the local authorities in this new round of funding to decide on the ground and to make the ranking in which we first need to establish connections. So I'm optimistic about Hiiumaa. If the giants can move faster than other places in Estonia, this is only an example. I look forward to the rapid internet connection in Hiiumaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U41	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, It is true that we will try to move to a digital society over the next ten years. At the same time, we know that nearly 100,000 households have not yet reached the information society. This is a very big problem, it is a very serious problem, and I think it is still being too little aware. This development plan, too, does not seem to me to be sufficiently aware of this. This EUR 1.2 billion over 10 years actually would very much like to read out in this Chamber how much it will go on for the so-called last mile, which we have not yet actually reached. We're gonna do the first mile of this last mile. Continuing: how much is this financial resource now? How much will be invested in ten years to make sure that people get the 100 megabits that are essential, not the ultra-fast Internet?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U43	As I said in the report, budget financing does not cover the entire ten-year period. But everything that is in the existing budgetary strategy is covered. With European Union funds, we can use a total of 69 million to develop the last mile in Estonia. I believe that before this 69 million is used up, we can also come to the Riigikogu with subsequent budgets, where we can find more funding. With $69 million, you can't get to all the addresses. But the subject is very important to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U44	Yeah. Mr. Hepner. A microphone for Mr. Hepner, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U45	Thank you. I am asking about climate and environmental sustainability. It says here that we are implementing an action plan. Would it be possible to open this action plan in more detail? I'd also like to ask you what cost we can talk about. When we realized for the last mile that we could get everything done in 69 million...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U46	I'm sure you can't get everything.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U47	... how much money is going to be spent on climate and environmental protection? What are the most important challenges to be addressed?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U48	Thank you. First of all, I would point out that with 69 million, not all households or businesses can be equipped with high-speed internet, but that is enough money to move forward quickly and reach as many as possible as possible as possible. Now the question of the information society, digitalisation and climate policy. In my opinion, climate policy objectives cannot be achieved without digitalisation. As the development plan for the digital society is wider than the digital state, it is also the responsibility of every company and, in some ways, our own as citizens. But specifically for the digital state, I want to give an example. We have decided to consolidate basic services. With regard to basic IT infrastructure and job support, for this purpose, we will pool so far scattered units in a single institution, and we will also consolidate more than 150 servers that are currently separately located. We are moving qualitatively to a different level, moving towards the use of cloud services, both in the state cloud and in the use of the public cloud. The use of cloud services is certainly a smaller environmental footprint than the current server park, and it is in the budget, I think, over 20 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U49	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U50	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Estonia was still at the forefront as a digital state 15 or 10 years ago, and we were looked up from below. Is today's stagnant development behind little money, or do we have a shortage of people, we do not have so much human resources, or are we just lazy, lying on laurels and not bothering to work anymore?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U51	Thank you. Estonia's reputation continues to be good. As I said in the presentation, in order for us, first as a society and as users, to get a better result from the digital state and the digital society, we may have to move from enthusiastic development to a more process-based direction, where every product and service has a owner who is responsible for its development and management. With this approach, we will certainly bring the quality of services to this level, as we would like, because, for example, businesses today have only 48% satisfaction with services, and private individuals have 69% satisfaction. Our goal is to achieve 90% satisfaction. Have any of us passed us anywhere? I think that, in some areas, there are certainly countries in the world that are at least catching up with us, perhaps ahead of us. But it should not discourage us but, on the contrary, urge us that we are ready to further develop our digital society and digital state. Thirdly, the development of the digital society and the digital state has certainly been hampered by under-funding for the costs of running, for which 30 additional million came from the state budget, which for me was a very significant, very important step. It was born in cooperation between the government and various ministries. So customer-centred, product-owners, basic funding, and then we move forward with all the developments and innovations that actually have a lot of money in the funds of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U52	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U53	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I'm the speaker of the Võro language in December. This morning we discovered that the Võro language lacks a term like broadband. We announced a competition, but the people also said that this broadband connection, it's what you expect from communism, it's not like there's a rush. But the Chancellor of Justice once said in this debate that he has been approached by people who would like to get out of the e-state. Maybe here's the human focus you were talking about. I myself experience it, even as a person in the same area, that it is sometimes difficult to communicate in a digital society. Even simple things, applying for an ID-card again. I know a former high-ranking police officer comes to the villages to help with these pictures and stuff. How [to achieve] this human-centredness, so that people do not have the depression to let us out of the e-state, how to prevent [this depression], and how to make it all look better?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U54	I'll start with a statistical number first. 96% of people actually trust the digital state and the digital society. I told you about peace when I answered the previous question. Satisfaction is not something to be proud of today. Now, this example that you gave us is whether issuing an ID card or some other document could make it more convenient for a person. The answer is yes. It is also an event service that is in work, so that a person should not think for himself that I now have an ID card or a driving licence or some other document expires, but the state simply reminds him in a friendly digital way that your new document is ready, where we can send it to you or how we can deliver it to you. Such customer-centred solutions, I think, will help. But in order for them to be not a few examples, but an established culture in every person who owns one or another digital service or product, I think we have a lot of work to do to create ownership and responsibility and that desire that yes, I take care of this service and I want it to be convenient for the user. Of course, all of this must also be measured, user comfort and satisfaction can be measured, as can the private sector in the public sector. I'm sure we'll do that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U55	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U56	Thank you. Good minister! In my opinion, the situation is not normal. We have a certain turn of the grass and the energy that we need. How does digital society or this development plan deal with them? Will their priority be perceived and how much danger and opportunity? After all, digital requires energy and sometimes more than we can imagine.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U57	Thank you. We also have a carbon footprint when using digital solutions, and digital solutions also consume energy. The good news is that they consume less than the alternative solutions that we would use if we were just in the analogue world. Similarly, I referred to the fact that if we move from conventional servers, which have so far reached the limit of moral aging, to cloud solutions, the environmental footprint of this solution is also smaller. Perhaps, for me, digital is still the most important enabler for solving environmental and climate problems. It is clear that, for example, it is better to manage energy consumption, to organise production processes more effectively, on a data-based basis. I think that smart solutions in urban management, no matter how we talk about lighting or traffic speed control, depending on how frequent or how intense traffic is just, all of this is possible thanks to digital solutions. For me, digital is a great enabler. But this must also be done, and it must be done not only at national level but also at business level. In the future, it will certainly be much more difficult for companies that do not digitise and do not reduce their carbon footprint than they do now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U58	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Digitalisation is a very important thing. We know how fast the processes in society are happening now and how quickly this digitalisation is coming up. There seems to be some inequality among companies. Large companies can afford digitalisation opportunities. We know this service is expensive. Just when we think about the level of wages in the IT sector, we can derive prices from it. Unfortunately, small companies cannot, unfortunately cannot, and the gap is getting bigger. Could you describe the state's vision of solving this problem? How do we help and support these small businesses in this digitalisation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U60	Thank you. That's the right point of view. Certainly, smaller companies have capacity, both financial capacity, but perhaps even more important knowledge and skills. What the state can do and where we are actually helping is the measures of EAS and KredEx, including advice, including grants for digitisation, to change business models. This will all become more comfortable, better, faster from the new year for the entrepreneur, after the creation of a new organisation based on EAS and KredEx, where everything can actually become a comprehensive solution, starting from advice to funding. So that's where I definitely see an opportunity. I think that banks should do some of this work because they have knowledge, they have the ability to advise their clients. I think that banking could also possibly go back in a good way to the time when there was more partner relations between the client and the bank, and also help businesses both in terms of financing and digitalisation, because there is actually a lot of money. It's just, I think, the main challenge is skills and knowledge and counseling.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U61	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U62	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Undoubtedly, the completion of the last mile is a very important component in achieving the development leap of our digital state. I'd like to know from you how you appreciate this activity currently in operation in the ten-ball system. There's still a lot of complaining about being built in places that maybe aren't exactly the places that should do it today. At the same time, places where it is needed and where there is a great deal of interest, it still cannot be done for any reason. You'll find all this information in the Ministry, by contractors, workers and clients. In the ten-ball system, what is your assessment of this activity now, and why do you give such a grade? What are the main concerns about which information is collapsing to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U63	Well, on a scale of ten, I'd put it somewhere around three or four. And why? Some of the recitals were already listed in the question. I think that in the design of how the support measure was given funding for high-speed internet access, the developer had too much freedom to decide when and where he was building something. This is a place that I really want to talk to Enefit Connect and see how we can speed up this process. In the following rounds, the division is, first, self-governing, meaning that the municipalities themselves can set priorities for the order in which connections should be established within their territory, and there is certainly a desire to put deadlines and reporting there so that people can see how quickly the development is progressing. But also in this first round that Enefit Connect is currently developing, I have a desire to speed this process up.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U64	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U65	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. It is artistically very nice that you have brought the characters of the Estonian mythology world into the digital world, these forces, crats and so on. But practically, Estonia needs more and more IT experts to make it work and to make good plans. Would you describe in a few words how this process can be carried out?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U66	Thank you. Education and ICT education have one very important point of contact here with the educational development plan that you recently addressed in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. There's a very strong point of contact here. I have also spoken to Jaak Vilo, for example. Perhaps the greatest bottleneck at the moment is precisely in the ability to grow offspring. Not necessarily because young people have an interest in obtaining ICT education, but because we lack people with a doctorate, an ICT doctorate. We cannot solve this overnight, but we will certainly, along with the Ministry of Education, look for ways to find more ICT doctoral studies in additional funding and also in the private sector. I think that's the most important thing. Further promotion of ICT education among young people. I myself have used [the idea] on several occasions that ICT education is useful not only when working in the ICT sector, but it is a very important skill in editing in any sector, such as industry. Modern industry is very, very ICT-based. There are very cool jobs in already existing companies in Estonia, not to mention those that are created here. So if we promote and increase funding capacity in universities as well, we will be able to produce secondary growth, we will be able to produce doctoral students and thus young people will have the opportunity to acquire their education here and realise their awesome ideas in Estonia as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U67	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U68	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. Yeah, in remote rural areas, they're looking forward to a fast internet, but I'd like to take a look at it from the other side. The price of electricity is currently making records due to a failing stock exchange system and the indecisiveness of the government. Various studies have been carried out on our Internet and the speed of fixed internet connections and the price of fixed internet connections have been viewed in Europe. These studies have shown that our internet is slow, but expensive. The British research firm Cable carried out a study that looked at the average cost of a monthly broadband package in a total of 200 countries. It turned out that Estonia still has to pay a very crisp price compared to its neighbours. If we have an average package price of EUR 25 here, then in Latvia 14 and in Lithuania 11. Are we in a poor competitive situation, or how can we encourage the price of fixed connection to be reduced, especially for private individuals? I think it is very important to improve accessibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U69	Thank you. The Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority has compared and reviewed these prices and concluded that prices in Estonia are rather European averages, in some respects lower. The most expensive one is a single-gabit connection. But there has been an explanation that there are no services at the moment that need this speed. Is there anything we can do about competition? There is always something that can be done, and both the Competition Authority and the TTJA will certainly deal with it. I think that if we compare the prices of different services, it is very important to see that we still compare apples and apples. I can't tell if the example you gave me was comparing the same things or not. I'd love to look in there, and if there's anything out there that's worth studying, I'm sure the TTJA will do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U70	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U71	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. All this fast internet is beautiful, but these concerns come from all over Estonia. I'll read you a letter. There is a village like Ollepa village in Viljandi County and the letter is from there. I'm starting to say: "Why was the high-speed Internet project in Ollepa village Türi rural municipality? It doesn't make any sense. The connection was made in the village's former library room, a house with eight apartments at the time of the collective farm, which allows eight connections to be put on paper immediately without investment, which is because the house is virtually collapsing." Question to you, have you been to Ollepa's and have you spoken to the people of Ollepa's village? In fact, according to this letter, the paper has been used to make a beautiful bird, but there are 42 addresses in the village, and those who need a quick connection have not received it. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I'd like to know if they can. When are you going to see Ollepa?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U72	Thank you. The answer is, I haven't been to Ollepa. But I've been to a lot of places in Estonia. Since there was now a specific reference, I say that visiting this county, I think, could happen next year. I have almost circled Estonia, some [county] still exist. I'm going to Valgamaa, and then there's Läänemaa, where I haven't gotten to. But Ollepa's example is very good. I'm afraid it's not the only one. The example of Ollepa is how there are no limits or rules on the conditions that this connection must meet, so that it would be written, so to speak, that, yes, we took the high-speed internet not to the garage, but we took it to the consumer. Here is the big difference between grants for the next round. There, municipalities have a very important role to play. So if the villagers of Ollepa know where they want the fast internet and have passed it on to their parish, I hope that the parish will have listened to this wish and that the connection will also be made to the house where no one lives, but to the houses or apartments where people live. For this purpose, an additional mapping has been done by both Statistics Estonia and TTJA in order to provide the best possible picture of where people actually live. So this is a very good example, unfortunately, like the dark side. My wish is that we can give more examples of how things have worked.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U73	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U74	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Andres! The crater is known in our mythology as a creature who steals for his master, and the master must sell his soul to create it. Maybe it's a pretty dangerous creature. Is that a good choice for that name? It is a rhetorical question, but it relates to my next, substantive question. Totalitarian societies are implementing digital society and artificial intelligence against their own people, or creating control and monitoring systems and so on. Do you see any danger in this direction in Estonia and in the European Union as a whole, too, and if you do, what should we do to avoid such developments in any case?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U75	Thank you. Well, I believe that this bureaucrat and digikrat is a good crater, that he still serves the master, not that he's trying to catch something behind him. The master to me here is the people, we are doing all this for the people, not for the technology. Now the other part of the question is whether digital and artificial intelligence can be misused. The answer to this question is, of course, yes. As you yourself pointed out, totalitarian regimes do so. What is the situation in Estonia and Europe? As I said in the speech, there are no two separate rooms, there is one physical space and one digital space. They exist together, and all the fundamental rights that we have as citizens exist in both rooms. I think that the best protection for these fundamental rights is a strong democracy. This is where the difference comes from between the totalitarian regime and democratic countries. In the case of a totalitarian regime, there is no debate as we have here, no one can ask such questions. We here can ask questions and answer and have parliamentary control; no law can be passed without your will. So I believe that democracy is the best protection for fundamental rights, as well as the smart and useful introduction of artificial intelligence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U76	No further questions. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U77	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U78	Kristen Michal, Chairman of the Economic Commission, is now invited to the chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U79	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will take the Commission's view of what we discussed in the Commission on 16 November. Minister Sutt made an in-depth presentation in the Commission, like here, and showed the slides, too, here he didn't show the slides, but he did. The Commission had a major debate on new technologies. Jüri Jaanson raised the question of when the next one could become a reality in communications technologies. Today it may be early to assess, but the Deputy Secretary-General of Digital Development, Siim Sikkut, has estimated that there is probably no hope for standards to be created before 2025. My colleague, Riho Breivel, stressed the need for people, especially competent people, to develop the digital state. This was about the main one, as well as in the round of questions and answers, the round of the presentation noted that Estonia has a very cool reputation, very cool companies, companies and entrepreneurs who carry out activities in this field. At the same time, traditional business may still need to go a long way to get there. But the lack of people, especially in harder work, has been quite visible a long time ago. The question is, how many would it take? The Minister's forecast is that it would be necessary in the order of 400 degree IT people to grow up to succeed in universities. This issue has also been addressed in the development plan. In particular, the lack of qualified people is one of the most acute problems. Well, there you go. That was the end of the debate, because this presentation, this presentation, was not less thorough than here. For my part, I would add that, although this development plan is a little too lyrical for my taste, more lyrical than I would have expected, there is a lot of power and fertilizer here, it doesn't make it any worse. Ten years of anticipation and planning, how we can be more successful, so that the digital tiger does not fall asleep, so that the sector that names us as a country in the world and increases our reputation and has increased our reputation can act freely, so that new people can come on top and traditional economic sectors, as well as people in homes, can get good connections, this is certainly a very important development plan. So if you're interested, take your time and read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U80	I'm sorry! Andres Metsoja would like to ask. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U81	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! I will look at this table, which is attached to this development plan and which should illustrate such a financial forecast in a ten-year perspective. I'm kind of out of line. As a member of the Riigikogu, I would actually like to have a say, see what is really in this issue. It is said that all the state budget resources are in there in the same way. The Minister says that the European Union's subsidies are still being added, while at the same time it states that they are in fact already included here. What should I take as a Member from this table? Or maybe you were presented with tables that are a little more rewritten?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U82	Thank you. I can even see exactly what was presented to us. I have this presentation. But I can tell you right now that the idea of this development plan and the point of introduction in this Chamber is that MEPs and the public can thus get an overview of what is going on, and market participants, anyone who is affected, get a similar overview, and MEPs can give their input. If now some questions are left unanswered by the Minister maybe all the details of this remote control can not be described apart, then it will be possible to ask and specify later. Ten years from now, I'll say about 1.2 billion in this table. What exactly is it going to take, the Minister and his colleagues can answer that. If so, it may also be further discussed in the Committee on Economic Affairs. I liked in this development plan when we talk about numbers, the fact that very ambitious numerical targets have been set, how satisfaction and connectivity rates for individuals and businesses reach nearly 90% and 100%. I don't remember what the average calculation was, 94 or 96, something like that. Unfortunately, it will be until 2030, but it must be hoped that Minister Sutt will remain in office until then, then you can later ask him how it went with all this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U83	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U84	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I will actually continue my good groupmate's question. This is not only the subject of a specific development plan, but we have also had a series of 10 to 15 figures in the past, and they say that you will see that we are planning 1.2 billion and awesome results in ten years. But that amount must have been obtained somehow. It's not like they looked at the ceiling, it's the result of adding something together. It has been repeatedly pointed out here whether this table is open in any way. Well, okay, you can't bring everything in here, but there could be some kind of link that we could choose from. Was that what the Commission was talking about? Was it somehow opened, how do these figures come to be? One might ask why 1.2 billion and not 2.4 billion, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U85	As you said, you could ask, but the question you asked was not asked. There was just an overview in the Commission. In particular, we were interested in the ten-year substantive objectives in this development plan, as these objectives also give rise to financing opportunities. In the digital and digital sectors, we have had a pretty big gap in the intervening years, which is compensated by the current government. This has also resulted from the same principle that significant breakthroughs have been financed primarily by euro instruments and not so much by a budget with such fixed funding. But I'm going to tell you again that this shortcoming will be compensated. In the field of IT and in the digital field, the following questions and restrictive issues are, in fact, the lack of people and opportunities, not even so much the financial side. On the side of the associations, perhaps the question is how quickly these connections can be established in Estonia, so that we are satisfied with them and its quality. So, therefore, I dare just say so much to the colleagues of the Commission and to my own justification, this financial table was not taken apart, but, above all, we were interested in the substantive side of what this development is in the development plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U86	No further questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. During the negotiations, this point has a say in only... However, all members of the Riigikogu and representatives of the political groups also. Andres Metsoja begins.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U87	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Those who watch us on video! It is a little sad in this sense that perhaps this development plan should have been handled during the period when we were doing teleworking, which would actually once again have given us such input and a test of how this digital state really works. But we've learned this experience, and hopefully we've learned from that experience. What is the problem of the Estonian information society? I think that the circa 100000 households use not the most positive words as a digital force. They sound quite, I think, like, intriguing words like that, when it comes to teleworking, when it comes to teaching children, using multiple screens. Then everything that has happened to us in our homes happens: the connection hangs and getting back to the system takes its time, the thought goes elsewhere, and the democratic debate tends to fade away. But I am very pleased that this development plan provides an opportunity precisely for this debate in this Chamber and in society at large, because the circle of those involved has been very large, with very many proposals being made. What stands out for maybe yes, even as a proposal from the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, is that if we make one development plan, we should talk about money. Let's talk about this money now and now, because a balanced budget is one of the important objectives of the Estonian state. If, even during the development phase, we are not able to explain very precisely what all of this could cost in terms of certain chapters, then it is actually a pity. Very many of the objectives, thoughts, principles set out in this development plan are noble and right, and to argue against them, I think, no one has a substantive desire. What, then, would one Member of this development plan, one political group expect? I think, above all, that much said, which this development plan itself is dealing with, very briefly, that the operator's neutrality should be guaranteed in Estonia. This has been said for a long time, unfortunately, no steps have been taken in the legal space in this context and, in fact, this development plan does not say anything more than that the neutrality of the operator is important. But how we get to it, it's practically nothing. This actually means that the network should be one unit and the service provider should be another unit on this network. But it does indeed require a reform of the communications market and very vigorous intervention, and it seems that there is no interest in doing so. As far as the rapid connection is concerned, already in 2017 our market participants said that they would switch from copper to 100 megabit connections. It was in 2017. Today we live basically in 2022 and we set the same rate of 100 megabits in a ten-year perspective. Well, that's obviously a crazyly low ambition. We need a fixed connection to every household. We know today, in fact, that the Minister is organising the next round through his ministry, where the average household grade even in a densely populated area, in a white area, is somewhere 4,000 euros. We can easily multiply these 100,000 households by 4,000 euros, and we get that essentially half of the money... I'm asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U88	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U89	... this ten-year money would go on just to interconnect these households so that there would be a secure modern data communication connection for households. But if we move forward in the development of digital society with the principle that someone is still left behind, I think that in Estonia we live by the principle that no one is left behind. As an Estonian state, we are one whole; we are all taxpayers, regardless of where we live should be able to navigate along the road, be able to receive electricity either through an autonomous unit or a network and should also receive modern internet connection. If we want to develop a digital state, this should be ambition number one. But unfortunately this plan does not count this amount once again, so what is the need for Estonia? If we cannot even formulate this amount, the need for investment, in the 10-year development plan, in order to bring ultra-fast internet access to every household, then we are actually going the wrong way. It is easy to write the number that 100% by 2030 must be equipped with high-speed internet access. But this "fast" again means 100 megabits, which I don't think meets those expectations and the future we should build. Certainly, in the context of the digital state, also the meaning of education, all teleworking, distance learning. The COVID crisis has actually been the best teacher in the sense that, if you look at any of the benefits that this COVID crisis has given us, I am more than sure that, without the crisis, Parliament would not have been ready to order a teleworking format so that remote work could be done at all. I think we are so conservative in nature that we would still have wanted and wanted to do these things at any cost in this Chamber and that it would have seemed like an unreasonable expense. It's done today, tried, worked. I think it would have been just as sci-fi at parents' meetings if it had been said that the teacher was communicating with children on the screen. It would have been an impossible mission. But these myths have been broken and I think it's been a big step for our children. Children are also raising us, and this must probably be the case more and more in society, especially in the digital society. What is really still important, and by which I would like to end, is that digital society must not replace ordinary life; it must not replace traditions, important signs. I am still concerned about the fact that when a child is born in Estonia and a birth certificate is given to him, I find it a little difficult if it remains virtual and on paper it is not. These are points of thought that there are some values alongside digital society, important places in the value room that should be kept exactly the same and should not be forgotten. Birth certificate is a beautiful thing, and it could also be exhibited in the real world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U90	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U91	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I would say that a very optimistic development plan, the implementation of which will require an estimated EUR 1.2 billion. Great, flying words: digital power, digital revolution, smart village, crativägi. Everything is beautiful and the future is excitingly promising. But before focusing on new activities, the existing solutions should be put in order. So far, the people have been distrusted by electronic selection. This is unreliable, either because the person whose ID-card is being logged into the voting system is not identified. It creates a favourable environment for voting. This is what is done by giving your ID card to someone else and, of course, with PIN codes, so you can earn extra money or other pleasures during the elections. There are many people who do this, whether knowingly or without their own knowledge, in some institution. Also the so-called tank thing. In my earlier workplaces, I dealt with a number of cases when individuals had given their ID-card together with PIN codes to another person's possession and use. The best-known scheme was the use of such tankers on the management board of companies when one person signed different documents with the identity card of another person. The person who gave his ID card received a monthly fixed income for this favor, a fixed amount for each company. Good pay. This, too, has been a problem for years. Problem with the investigating authorities, the prosecutor's office, the IRS. Why hasn't these problems been solved so far? I have personally drawn the attention of the RIA to this, but I have been tried to make it clear that there are no such things, that they are not happening. However, I had to deal with these problems, their actual cases, both in the criminal police and in the IRS. At the same time, the Estonian Social Insurance Board reports that pensioners living outside Estonia must prove their existence by 1 March of each year and it is not enough to prove that they are alive, but that the pensioner must prove his identity together with the ID card during the video call. This means that he has to make a personal video call, and in the video, he has to keep his ID card next to his face, because he doesn't believe he's still the same person and that he's still alive. Similarly, notaries require facial recognition when performing notarial activities via a video bridge, or remotely certified, and do not just accept an ID card. On 25 August this year, the National Information System Authority commented that the inclusion of facial recognition would require that the question of privacy interference and accessibility, whether a person has a good enough internet connection or a camera to participate in the democratic process, has been discussed at both the legislative level and in society at large. Interestingly, such problems are not seen in the process of confirming your life. In their case, the state expects pensioners to have, or even need to have, a good internet connection and a good webcam, I am not talking about having skills. Why have these services, as I have mentioned, not been harmonised? Why are views, approaches and solutions different? How can a digital service platform built such a slime-slide address the new digital challenges of social life? Prior to the creation of new solutions, the existing solutions should be put in order and fraud-proof. To build a strong skyscraper, you need a solid foundation. Start with this. First unify the current bumpy and unsafe digital solutions and then move forward with your grand dreams. So we are more serious as a digital state. Otherwise, it would appear that there is no skill or desire to be a transparent, secure and innovative digital state. The rule of law should also be sought in the digital world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U92	Andrei Korobenik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U93	Okay. Good President! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Today, we had a unique document in the big hall, which sets goals for one of Estonia's most important areas for nine years. No other development plan is included in the overall development of the digital state. In the future, the public sector could be the leader and guide of the development of Estonian digital society, as it was 20 or 25 years ago. We hope that the new plan will bring us closer to this goal. We are all proud that Estonia is a digital state. As a digital state, the whole world knows us. It must be acknowledged that our success is largely based on the achievements of the past, but that is why this is the right time to reinvigorate the development of our e-governance. We need to do much more to be the world's digital leaders in the future. The key to our success in the digital world was courage: operational e-solutions were sometimes completed faster than legislation, bureaucracy was low, the key decisions for developing the digital state were made at the level of the President or Prime Minister. The development plan presented today sets ambitious goals, and the most important to achieve these goals is the change of attitude of officials and politicians. To do this, we must all work together. One important direction that was reflected in the development plan is the personal digital state. This dream has been living for decades, and now is indeed the time to realise this dream. I am talking about both existing services and new ones, such as personal medicine. The services of the digital state must be accessible from one place, pro-active, must see [in advance] the needs of the citizen, and must prevent his or her concerns and problems. With the help of a proactive digital state, we will finally be able to reduce the number of officials. Robots and automation must deal with routines, not people on public wages. The development plan pays attention to the availability of the Internet, and the debate in the large hall also focused on this issue. The state plans, among other things, to launch a high-speed internet across Estonia via 5G and 6G networks. The available internet was the secret of our digital state's rapid launch in the nineties. Today we are lagging behind our neighbours in terms of Internet speed. Only 58% of the Estonian population live in high-speed Internet-enabled areas. The characteristic of Estonia is, of course, that fast optical cable does not reach every farm, but no doubt new technologies will have a role to play in communicating the Internet in the future. Finally, the most important thing. No area is developing by itself; it requires people. The digital sector is no exception either. We need specialists so that we can continue to take the lead in this area, so that we can offer new practical solutions to our citizens and to the whole world, which will make life even more comfortable and easier. Training is needed within the country and must also be sought from outside. The main resource of the world today is people, and we must make much more effort for the top players to make their choice for Estonia in the future. Good luck with that! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U94	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U95	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will focus my speech on a relatively narrow question, without which, in fact, it is probably not possible to get a forecast of the cost of this development plan and the money. But before that, however, I would like to congratulate the developers of the development plan for the metrics. There are few, you could say that there could be more, and some problems can be brought to the attention. But they're specific, and indeed, they'd rather be few, but let there be concrete and measurable meters. The development plan's authors could certainly be commended for this. In addition, it is really now possible to observe it, so this is a linear line from which we can view how progress has been made. Expansion of the fast internet is perhaps the best way to see it. If we ask about satisfaction somewhere, it may not always be linear, but if we are planning a fast internet over Estonia to reach 100%, then of course it doesn't have to be exactly linear every year, but we can still draw some trend line and see how we're doing with this line. The one thing that actually connects all of this is money. Of course, money is not an end in itself, but money is still the one that connects people, connections, applications, that is, creates the possibility of making them [connectors and applications], creates the opportunity to train people and creates the possibility of having 400 people with doctoral degrees who will further commit themselves to the development of the digital state. The page that we have distributed here, it probably doesn't quite match the pages that are digitally available, is given a cost estimate. Indeed, EUR 1.224 billion has been planned for 10 years. This presentation of a time series has been quite common in the development plans that we have discussed and discussed in this Chamber. This has also been repeatedly pointed out in the past that there could be, at the very least, a link if it was not recommended to put it in the annex. But these numbers haven't come from anywhere in the ceiling, these numbers have been calculated very clearly, derived, some projections have been made, which is finally aggregated, and so it is then obtained. We also heard from the Minister that indeed, 69 million have been designed for this last mile, but it does not cover everything. Andres Metsoja also tagged his fingers and said that about half of this money could take at today's prices if we wanted to reach 100%. To make sure that these numbers really ensure that this goal is achieved, you need to go in a little deeper. Agreed, this ten years after forecasting money has its own margin of error and there may be unexpected changes in life, but if we really want to discuss and also want to have a say in subsequent budgetary strategies, then it would still be important that we can also get to subsequent governments... Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U96	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U97	... to say that we have a very important development plan, a digital state development plan, and we must add a certain number of millions to take our country forward. It's one place, one disadvantage I'm sure I'd like to point out. Another such problem is the digital green state. In this sense, it is positive that there is also a debate here on greening and climate-related issues, and there is also a reference to very concrete action that we are launching, implementing the digital state's climate and environmental sustainability and green agenda. However, this part could have been a little more precise, perhaps more specific, say, the most important goals, what is being desired to change where they want to move. Let's look at the links with the other development plans. Indeed, the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development has been outlined here, but this text could still have been a more concrete approach to this climate change than the government considers to be important. Finally. I hope, too, that these nice expressions don't go so far as to make sense of this cratch. The good minister also said here and confirmed that it was such a good crater who wouldn't steal. Basically, we know that in the context of the crater, how he punches the master with good and better. Sometimes a naughty child is also called a scratch. But let's hope it's not that we don't really sell our soul to the IT society, to the digital society, and we still stay in the real world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U98	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U99	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I was talking about the village of Ollepa. I could talk about another seven or eight villages that are similar, but they all have their own particularities. But I'm not talking about it today, I'm talking about what I'm supposed to talk about. I'd like to let a lot of smart people in this room. I'm talking about what's going on with the electricity right now. Jaak Aaviksoo, an academician, former minister, wrote on Facebook before yesterday's record price when there was just over 600 euros of megawatt-hour: "Electricity 1000! " He meant it would come at 8:00 in the morning. I don't know how long you have to wait before somebody shuts that crazy merry-go-round thing down. Now I'm quoting a little bit of the discussion of smart people here. Olari Koppel, does not name [the office]: "But why not 10,000 or immediately a million? But this is the first wind-free winter of this century that followed the rainy summer of Scandinavia. " Tõnis Palts, former minister and mayor: "It gives orders to put a wall on the stepside in Narva and no longer take it out and compensate the consumer for this insane price with its profits. " Olari Koppel: "The news was that Narva boilers are humming at full power. " Tõnis Palts: "Did it say how much full power it was? It is insane whether all the CO2 tax comes to our own reform party cashier with a note that there is no money, the money went to Italy. That is a very fundamental question. " Sven Soiver, journalist: "There is also a question of who will cover the losses if 60% of consumers have fixed the price already in September, now probably in the order of [their] size. " Tõnis Palts: "Narva Power Plants have not shaped the stock exchange price for a long time because they are not the most expensive production methods on the market. The production of electricity from gas has been more expensive for a long time. Indrek Neivelt: "It is impossible to explain what is happening. Eesti Energia makes a very big profit, the state receives a CO2 fee and higher VAT, all prices go to the ceiling, the government receives dividends and pays for this money. People like us comment here, journalists write articles, crazy editing is going on, and everyone has an action. Turtle stuff." [He's] a former banker. "Look at Denmark and other old European countries: a minimum of 175, a maximum 460. We have to revolutionize, says one citizen. " Tõnis Palts: " What are you talking about? Of course, it doesn't shape, it makes a profit, and it's very good. We are the owners of these power plants, and the normal government will compensate for this profit through the dividend to consumers. " Janek Maat: "I'm not talking about anything, trying to figure out how the price jumps up and down an hour and a day. From this news I realized that the price of us is, like, not dependent on us at all. " Tõnis Palts: " No, it doesn't. It's up to us not to be stupid because we can cover our own needs. The higher the price, the better the government would be able to distribute the results fairly to its owners. " Mario Lobanovski: "In Norway, many politicians are not satisfied with the fact that Germany's concrete emphasis is on Germany's closing down many power plants and relying on wind power. This has led to a situation in which Norway has to sell its own cheap energy at a very expensive stock market price, which in turn means much higher electricity prices for local people. " Andrus Pihkva: " This is not just Germany. Stupid, world-wide olipopolitic, but clearly anti-scientific notion that the wind and the sun are something so sure that things that work on fossil fuels must be forgotten. " Then Ivari Ilya, Rector of the Academy of Music and Theatre, intervened: "I have been obsessed with the question of whether it is an economy or a cruel circus show in which we all participate. " Quote from the Rector of the Academy of Music and Theatre! Former Minister Jaak Aaviksoo: "Ivar Ilya, of course, it is not an economy, rather the arrival of uneducated and irresponsible enthusiasts among decision-makers. It only gets worse at first."
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U100	Peter, would you like some extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U101	Yes, I would, if I may.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U102	It's okay. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U103	"Then, unfortunately, it could get worse before hope arises. The price of democracy. " Jürgen Ligi comes, colleague, well, it's getting easier: " Thank you, Jaak! You and I should, we both remember the 1 550 inflation, not to confuse it with the appreciation of one commodity. " Urmas Mägi: " Don't forget, citizens, that there will be 20% VAT and, of course, a transfer fee with tail and horns. The rush hour is on the way to work in the morning, so you have to give up your morning coffee, and it makes sense to sleep in your clothes so that you don't have to sweat in the dark. " Mirko Ojakivi, a well - known journalist: "It may not be in record-price hours that customers reduce electricity consumption, said Vikerradio news on Friday. " So, I can't read everything. Viktoria Lukas: "The best demonstration of stupidity. First we close everything, then we start to see where we can get it. Logic says, of course, you should stay over first, then you can turn something off. I don't know. " Indrek Neivelt: "It's some crazy experiment. Soon, the price of bread will be taken into account in the shop. The price of the most expensive loaf paid today is tomorrow's bread price in all the shops. "The end of the banker's quote. Paap Kõlar: "I wonder why the nuclear power state in Finland is at the same price level as us fools? Doesn't Russia make it cheaper?" I look at these discussions, there are many, wise people, but I will read a few more [thinking]. For example, Academician Niinemets: "The trading volumes on the stock exchange are very small compared to general consumption and there is no real shortage of the system." "Anyway, what happens when you collectively try not to consume at 7 to 8? For example, if I turn off the heat pump at this time of day, I am 95% behind my consumption," the academician graduated. Okay. Urmas Mägioja: "Where are our constitutional rights now? Can anyone explain? "Indrek Neivelt: "This cannot be explained." Okay. Priit Rohumaa, you are a former minister... I'll take a quick look... The former Prime Minister, Indrek Toome, says: "In essence, the ultimate profit of Eesti Energia is the illegal taxation of the Estonian electricity consumer. The state company should not make super-profits in peeling citizens; the government should put an end to this." "Good Advent time!" Ends the former Prime Minister. Okay. Oo, Kalev Stoicescu, foreign policy expert, Estonian 200 politicians: "I am not a soul-to-heart, but I still think that the main sources of common people's lives are water, electricity, today the internet, and now it is connected to this subject, and the most basic food products should be regulated by the state and kept within bearable limits. " And so on and so forth. Aa, and Meelis Atonen, once Minister, refers here to an article in 2011, where the Prime Minister said that joining the power exchange would not cause families enormous difficulties in coping. "When a person reads that the price of electricity rises by 60%, he thinks that Juhan Parts is some unscrupulous person. Actually, it's not."
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U104	Time, Peter!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U105	Yeah, yeah. I am about to finish, the last sentence: "Actually, we are making a significant change, which will significantly strengthen the Estonian economy and strengthen people's incomes over a period of 5 to 10 years. " End of quote. Thank you. A little smart people with us.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U106	Thank you. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U107	To be honest, I had absolutely no intention of coming to the point of this bill today to give a remote speech. But as they say in the well-known children's book "Agu Sihvka is reporting," I now have to use a quote: in order to be honest, I have to start by saying that our Minister Andres Sutt came here to speak. Here he acted like a perfectly normal person, gave a beautiful speech, and then he left the remote and quickly put the mask on. I understand, of course, that this is justified fear. Now that's the only place the members of the Riigikogu can pick up the button and ask the minister to listen, man, why is that? But, well, despite the good camouflage opportunities, we still recognize you, good Andres, you still have to communicate with us. So this disguise didn't serve your purpose today. So what was Andres Sutt talking about? Andres Sutt gave an excellent speech about the development plan of Estonian digital society until 2030. What are the vital reasons why I climbed into this remote control? In my opinion, Kert Kingo gave an excellent speech about the weakest place in this whole digital society, i.e. identifying a person by means of an ID card. I think that this could be summed up just as he ended his speech: start by harmonising the bumpy, unsafe digital solutions you have so far, and then move forward with your grand dreams. Now we are serious as a digital state. That was the so-called operative part. Basically, Kert Kingo is absolutely right, good Andres. Kert pointed out very important points in this whole identification of persons using an ID card. After all, we know very well how the Social Insurance Board [required] that pensioners living outside Estonia must prove their existence every year not only by means of an ID card, but also by means of a video call, showing in video that the soul is still inside. Understandably, there may be a situation that pension insurance money may suddenly start cheating out. Or another example: A video bridge is also used for notaries to detect the person's credibility by facial recognition, not only helps with the ID card. It makes sense. But the Riigikogu elections and municipal elections do not require such identification. We put an ID card in a nursing home somewhere, and at 3:00 a.m., 40 pensioners will do all their votes in ten seconds. Good Andres, is that normal? I say it's not normal. Actually, here's the problem. I'll be there in a minute. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U108	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U109	The question is what Kert Kingo said was important. The mere use of an ID-card actually allows huge frauds to be committed. Someone's gonna give someone an ID card and codes, they're gonna do it, and then they're gonna mess with those tanks when the money's been transferred to one person, after the third, and the whole thing's gone. Why am I saying all this, Kert told me everything? But I'm talking because listening to Kerd's speech, I went to good Andres to hear if you're listening. "Yeah, I'm taking notes here. Yeah, it's a good call. " I said, " Is it not reasonable that we should still use a video bridge during the elections to prove that this person is the person who actually casts his vote? Andres, what was your answer? "Oh, you see a ghost where it doesn't exist. " Totally strange. We need to use the video bridge to get the state money, we need to use the video bridge in notary transactions, and now that we are choosing a representative body, there is no need to do so. I see a ghost! But actually, good Andres, that's why the Reform Party gets so many votes. That's why you get so many votes that there's no video bridge to prove the identity of who's voting there. And that's what you stand against. That's why you say that I see a ghost where it's not really there. What was your answer to me in a so-called private conversation? It was that, but maybe we should also change the situations where we use video recognition at the notary and social security payments. I don't believe it. I just don't think so. But now we are in the process that, in fact, no matter what you say about the credibility of the elections, as long as there is no video bridge, this composition of the Riigikogu and the composition of the local government will not become what is normal in a democratic society. Why do people vote on paper? Just to avoid the possibility that voices are being carried around. So ultimately, good Andres, I think Kert Kingo's speech was extremely good, he referred to the points of pain in this development plan. I hope that, after such a small remark from me, such a requirement will still be introduced that in the case of elections, a person must be identified not only by means of an ID card, but also by means of a video bridge. Good Andres Sutt, Minister, who you are here and who we can touch sometimes, I wish you much, much strength to carry out this plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U110	Rep, I understand. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U111	Thank you! My name was called here many times, and I'd be a little more specific about what my name was called. When we are talking about the issue of tankers, I would point out that tankers leave a lot of funds in the Estonian Treasury because tankers act as tax fraudsters, committing crimes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U112	Thank you. Now Minister Andres Sutt has asked for the last word. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U113	Thank you, good manager. Thank you, good members of the Riigikogu, for questions and speeches. I answered the questions, listened to the speeches and would like to clarify three things. The first concerns financing. As I said in my speech, funding for ten years has been put together according to the best knowledge available at the moment. But I'm taking these ideas here to make this table more informative. My second comment is about the last mile and the ambition of how fast the last mile should be. 100 megabits per second was actually a minimum level and it has to be raised to one gigabit per second. So we're also talking about the last mile of super-fast internet. The third issue that was mentioned here in two speeches is whether e-elections and e-votes are credible. The answer is: yes, they are reliable, they have been audited, checked. There has been no shortage of e-votes. Who do the voters vote for? They give it by parties whose worldview matches their worldview, either they give it at the station or they give it by e-voting. I think that all parliamentary parties have received both paper and e-voices, and I think that this is the right thing for democracy. There was a separate discussion of electoral fraud. I think it is very simple and clear here: if there are such doubts, these protests must be presented. The Riigikogu Election Committee discusses and decides on these protests. I think everything's fine here, too. Finally. Thank you again for listening, thank you for your good wishes. In our ministry, we will certainly implement this development plan with commitment, energy and enthusiasm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U114	Thank you very much. Negotiations have been concluded and the agenda item is also under way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U115	We can go to today's fifth and last item on the agenda. The members of the Riigikogu are Jaanus Kariladi, Kersti Sarapuu, Viktor Vasilijevi, Peeter Rahnel, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Dmitri Dmitriyev, Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, Marko Šorini, Enn Esemaa, Aadu Musta, Kaido Höökelson, Tarmo Tamme, Jüri Ratas, Oudekki Loone, Siret Kotka, Erki Savisaare, Natalia Malleuse, Igor Kravchenko, Imre Sooääre, Marek Jürgenson, Mikhail Korb, Martin Repinski, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Mailis Repsi, Martin Helme, Urmas Reitellemann, Leo Kunnase, Uno Kaskpeiti, Peter Ernitsa, Riho Breiveli, Kert Kingo, Kalle Grünthal, Jaakmetsi, Pauli Häi, Hemelma, Helmani, Helkain. This is Bill 462, this is the first reading. I call Marko Šorin, member of the Riigikogu, as rapporteur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U116	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The saga of the presidential elections, which ended in the autumn and has barely passed, shows that the form confirmed by the Constitution is about to get in the way of time. At the same time, five years ago, presidential candidates traveled throughout the summer to the municipalities of Estonia, sometimes sitting in a chair that remained warm from the previous candidate. But in the end, none of them proved elected. This time the picture was quite different: there were no candidates until the last moment, and when someone appeared on the radar, the person who appeared on the radar soon gave up himself. The situation once again embarrassed politicians. Five years ago, when the situation was also embarrassing, the political issue was wanted to be discussed and developed, but apparently out of contention, it just fell off after the presidential elections. This time, after the oath of the President of the Republic of Alar Karis, the newly appointed 45 Riigikogu ambassadors submitted a draft amending the Constitution. Being one of them, I'm sure the next president could be elected by the people. 30 years of independence has educated our society enough, and now it is time to give the decision-making power to the Estonian people. The purpose of the draft under consideration is to change the order of the presidential elections so that the elections are conducted by direct election. A candidate can be submitted by collecting at least 10000 signatures. The period for the submission of candidates shall begin 60 days before the elections and shall end 40 days before the election day. The proposed draft amending the Constitution bears the clear spirit of the Constitution, in which it states that the highest authority is exercised by the people. This also means corresponding obligations and rights. However, the current wording does not give the highest authority the choice of heads of state. The fact that the President is currently elected by politicians does not add value to Estonia's life, but giving people this right would give them. I mention here that I have informed both the President of the Republic and the [previous] President of the Republic of Estonia of the processing of this draft in the Riigikogu. Of course, they know it without even informing it, but I think it's fair. I also communicated with the Estonian scientist Margit Tavits, who has specifically addressed the topic of direct elections in his 2008 survey. We exchanged views on several occasions. He is very interested in current developments, although, as he told me, he has not dealt directly with this issue since this book was published in 2009. However, social expectations can be felt. You can read in the [explanatory note] accompanying the bill from various surveys of the [opinion] of the people, which show clear support for direct elections. Of course, this is not the most important national issue. It doesn't help COVID, it doesn't create jobs in rural areas, it doesn't develop our IT capabilities or our economy. But he sends a signal to our society, a signal that politics is not a dullly moving mechanism, but that it is flexible to a small country and taking into account the opinion of the people. During the previous draft [debate], the village of Ollepa was repeatedly discussed. People in the village of Ollepa would also like to choose their president. Ladies and gentlemen, If you look at the last two choices, they're quite different in nature. But the paradox is that in both cases everything, both candidates and campaigning, has been absolutely constitutional. This is an example that the current procedure is in the way of time. It would be like a car with a nice color, speeding up well, inspection is done, but sometimes the brakes don't work. What is more, the current system allows a small group to decide who does not become president by simply placing blank notes in the ballot box or by simply violating these notes. It's nonsense. The mistake seems to be that there are a number of weaknesses in the system that allow a number of abuses: empty or corrupt notes, which I have already mentioned, bringing real candidates to the electoral body, or the campaign of the so-called wrong candidates, as it was in 2016. Our constitution is not a dead text. The constitutional elements concerning the President are: the President of the Republic as an institution, the Riigikogu and the people as the supreme authority. The election process, however, is not fundamental. If this is changed, the foundations of democracy will not shake and the historical continuity will not be interrupted, because we do not have that continuity. I am thinking here, of course, of the common ground with Estonia's past, not the last 30 years. As far as the ideas and attitudes of the constitutional authors are concerned, the world has evolved and changed so much in the last 30 years, so it is quite appropriate to look at those parts that are no longer up to date. We are surrounded by 14 European countries, where the President is elected by the people. The question is why now. Some feel that this issue should not be dealt with now, as elections to the Riigikogu are coming up. However, the initiators of the draft act find the opposite. It's a great window of time. The next Riigikogu elections are a little longer than one year. The topic would remain up during the Riigikogu elections, the debate would pass through a debate filter, and the next composition to come to this hall would already have known before starting work what important issue they must at least deal with. This is why we could also count on possible good cooperation between the two formations, today and the future. It is a brilliant time to tackle the issue of direct elections cross-partyly, to show political consensus without anyone taking a so-called political point here. A lot of us are afraid of that. But let's do this thing together, and none of us are gonna lose, we're all gonna win. The government, of course, has to deal with COVID issues now, but we can deal with other issues in parallel that do not have to be devoted to the government. It has been criticised that the directly elected President takes too much power, as this is allowed by a great mandate. Margit Tavits, mentioned earlier, has pointed out in his book that rather there has been too little study of this subject, and either one of them claiming that this is going to be the case, and others claiming that this would not be the case, cannot say that they are relying on some kind of study. However, the President may be more active than compared to the Head of State elected in Parliament. The authors Frye and Hellman have stated that there are no clear statements that this would be the case that the President takes a more powerful position than he has been elected by the people. If there was a direct link between the elected President of the people and a greater mandate, we should notice it on the international stage. At meetings, the presidents elected by the people and elected by Parliament should stand out, but we do not notice that very much. Although there are examples of directly elected presidents who have been very active, such as Lech Wałęsa or Valdas Adamkus, we also have examples of taking the initiative of the President. For example, the President of the Republic of Estonia did not give the President of the winning party in the Riigikogu elections the right to form a government, and he was not directly elected President. Lennart Meri's activity has only become more legendary in time. However, the presidents of Ireland, Austria and Iceland are not very involved in the implementation of policies, even though they have been chosen by the people of that country. Our own Lennart Meri often crossed his own powers in external communication, even though he was not directly elected. The Czech President Václav Havel did the same while they still had a President elected in Parliament. The Czech Republic now has direct elections. These are just a few examples, but they indicate that a much more critical assessment than mere assumptions is needed to assess the take-up of the President in one system or another. Moreover, these examples do not need to be that the President takes a stronger position himself, but maybe the government is more passive. So it can be said that the different presidents are, in contrast, active, but it has nothing to do with the electoral system. Rather, it can be argued that the activity of the institutions depends on the context and the personalities of the agencies. It is probably up to the President to be active if he is in favour of a coalition or opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, I call this time for the issue of presidential elections to be seriously addressed and changed so that we can avoid the mistakes made in the past. I would ask for this bill to be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U117	Thank you. We could now go to the questions, but first we have to make a decision. The proposal of the Estonian Central Party Group has been received by the Riigikogu to extend today's session until the agenda items are exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. We're gonna have to vote on that, but two minutes before that call sign. Ladies and gentlemen, We have received a proposal from the Centre Party Group to extend today's session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U118	43 delegates are in favour of extending working time, one against, no abstentions. The decision is positive, we can move on. Now we can go to the questions. Each member of the Riigikogu has two oral questions for rapporteurs. Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U119	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Waitress. I, too, am among the signatories to this bill. Sometimes it is considered that, if the President is to be directly elected, he must somehow have a very large number of powers. On the other hand, the most important mandate for today's President is that he must supervise what is actually happening in this house, whether Parliament, a parliament elected by the people, is based on our constitution in the way it operates and in the substance of its operation, that is to say, the President is the guarantor of our constitutional functioning. At the same time, the President receives, as a mandate, a mandate from the people he supervises. Does the problem that exists in Estonian legislation today seem strange to you? How much can we actually solve this problem with this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U120	Thank you. An extremely good question, and probably much wider than what you can just debate here right now. The President's placement in direct elections is also one of the topics covered in this book I mentioned. Of course, we have more institutions supervising the Constitution, and in this sense, democracy in Estonia has worked very well. However, such a problem is indeed that the President, who is the last instance before the law is declared, after the Riigikogu has adopted it, I see that there is indeed a certain contradiction here, has also been confirmed by this same society or its institution. So a clearer line, if the president is elected by the people, would be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U121	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U122	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! What is your opinion and perhaps the opinion of all the initiators? If we imagine that this law will come true, should the President's duties, which are included in the Constitution, be changed in parallel, or should everything remain the way it is? Is there any way that these tasks should be changed, something added, something taken away?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U123	Thank you. Got it. We also had this question in the Commission. The committee report will be made by Toomas Kivimägi immediately after me. The initiators of the draft act have not focused their focus on this issue and do not consider it important. It is now evident that the President has enough of such a role that we continue to maintain such an institution in the Republic of Estonia and that it is not necessary to add this institutional power to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U124	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U125	Good manager! Good waitress! What's interesting is that every time an election closes, things like this come up on the table. The President's direct elections have also come to the table just before the municipal elections. It is very logical that after the Riigikogu elections, it could be on the table and could make these decisions. I am absolutely not opposed to the election of the President directly. I have been carrying this idea in myself for years, until the previous presidential elections, when I realized that in reality the President is not elected by the people, but the President is elected by the press. The press will decide who the right person is. When people say it all the time, it's like an actor once said you're gonna believe you're the best. But I have a question. Does it also seem to you that this proposal, which is not a bad proposal at all, has come politically, but, on the other hand, it is a bad proposal because it has not been taken into account that the President should be given much greater authority if there is a national mandate?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U126	Thank you. That's a good question, I'll say it again. Here too, in the hallway, when I spoke with a few colleagues, it was said that this topic would come again before the elections. Name the time when there will be no elections in Estonia. They're almost always coming. The cycle of municipal and parliamentary elections is four years, the President five years, the European Parliament five years. They're going to shift into some kind of time cycle if it seems to be inappropriate again. But at the same time, in order to change the constitution, because it has to be done in at least two compositions, the initiators of the draft, on the contrary, have found an excellent time. The current composition can address this issue. We have plenty of time, just over a year, when there's a new setup. At the same time, the new composition that will come together in 2023, they already know that the subject is on the table and that they actually have the opportunity to press the red or green button and give the people the right to do so. So right now, what's going to be an election is, in fact, a demagogic move when you say that the elections are coming again. Why was this bill submitted now? We had the presidential election. We saw in the middle of the summer that the Riigikogu's reputation saved, so the Riigikogu did not lose its face, that we were able to choose Alar Karise in the second round. If the Riigikogu had not been able to elect the President itself this time, the people would have already insisted that what you were doing there if you could not choose the President five years ago and could not now. It was just great that we got such a candidate and got him elected. That must have been why [to do this] now before the elections. In my opinion, I personally think that this is a great time to deal with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U127	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U128	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, It is clear to us that with the voices of the extreme left, the liberals and the wereps, this bill will be dropped. Now I have a question for you: is the Centre Party prepared to initiate a draft referendum with the Estonian Conservative People's Party in order to obtain a mandate from the people for the direct election of the President?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U129	Thanks for the question. In fact, I do not have the mandate to answer for the Centre Party; I am the representative of the initiators of this draft. We in this Chamber all know the people who have initiated this draft, the people of the Central Party have all signed this bill. So right now I would call for this bill to be dealt with specifically so that it does not die because the next draft is coming.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U130	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U131	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Perhaps you could shed more light on the circumstances in which you do not want to give more power to the President. Is it your assumption that once the people have elected the president, the people expect the president to play the exact same balancing role as he is now? Do the initiators of this draft not expect people to expect the President to somehow contribute politically to resolving Estonia's affairs and perhaps to speak more, and if there is injustice, then the President would intervene? Is it your assumption that the President doesn't do something like this, that he's just gonna stay the balance of authority?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U132	Thank you. Also an excellent question. I actually spoke in my presentation of a somewhat active position or position of power from the President. But is that what the people expect? This is a somewhat demagogic question, because the people are never homogeneous. At the same time, the current public polls that have been conducted show support for the President's direct election. That the people expect the President to have more power of such studies, at least for me, is not known to have been done, or they have not been available at the time of drafting this draft. Perhaps it is extremely difficult to determine that the people are expecting something else. Whether they have to come in front of this house and waving scythes or posters, we don't know. But what about the different examples of presidential power or decision-making? I compared, for example, with the Czech President, who also has the right to appoint professors from universities. We know that universities are autonomous and that is not the right of the President. I rather think that 30 years have shown that the institution of the President as he is today is appropriate and appropriate for our small country.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U133	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U134	Thank you, manager. Honourable waitress! You have also given very exciting examples of the practice of Estonian state law, when the presidents operating under our current system have still quite strongly pushed for more space. But if more people are listening to us today via live web coverage, perhaps some examples from these 14 countries will also be produced? I'm sure we know the Finnish system best. So, has something strange happened to the direct election? No Lukashenko and Päts have come to power in these countries, right, where there are direct elections. We do not have any examples at the moment where, as a result of the President's direct election, this system of state would have gone rogue. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U135	Thank you. Another good question. I would like to start by saying that I think that we Estonians are more Nordic than the Belarusian Lukashenko, aren't we? We are probably vaccinated against this dictatorship as a result of which past we come from and where we are and what kind of attitude we have. I don't know how to name all 14 countries: Austria, Poland, Lithuania, Finland, Slovakia, Slovenia, Ireland. Indeed, it has not been noticed in the international arena that democracy would have disappeared in these countries or that the President would have hijacked power. I'm referring again to this book by Margit Tavits. By the way, it's in our Parliamentary library, but you can't rent it today, I still have it. There are further examples that there are also presidential campaigns for promises that under no circumstances the President has the authority or the ability to amplify. As I said in the report, rather, the activity of the President depends on what kind of person is filling this place, and also on how passive or active the government and Parliament are. Rather, this activity will be taken by the presidents if the government and Parliament have been more passive. This balance of weights rather works like this, not as it depends on whether the electorate has been a people or a parliament or a electoral body.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U136	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U137	Good manager! Good colleague! Well, those stories have been told in this hall until they're tired, and I've done it once on the speaker's desk. But I'm asking you, do you think this time it'll work? All the times it's been sent to the trash, no matter who's come out of it, Lennart Meri even at the end of his term of office and so on. Do you think this time it's gonna work out or they're gonna pull it again, people are stupid and he doesn't need anything? Eat the grass!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U138	Thank you. I will start by saying that there is nothing wrong with it if we discuss the good thing for a long time and a lot. Maybe that's what's gonna get us. It's still nine times, cut once. Decisions amending the Constitution are certainly the ones that need to be considered at length. I asked the current president what his position was. Above all, his view is that the subject should go through a parliamentary debate, because the debate may make it clear that the status quo is the best. This initiation does not mean that we have already found the best solution in the world. There are no best solutions, because the context, society and concerns that plague society are constantly changing. Is it gonna work this time? I have this sense of some kind of change going on this time. I feel that way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U139	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U140	Thank you. The subject is crucial, well reported, and changes are necessary. However, in the light of the academic expertise you have presented, let me ask why the initiators of the draft did not consider the implementation of the Irish presidential election model either, on the basis of a single transferable voice model, which would actually give a firm result in the first round of elections and would not need a second round of elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U141	Thank you. Now I can quote my favourite quote for the last five or six years, because the question that has been asked allows this. This [the idea] does not belong to me, it belongs to Külli Taro, who you probably know, who has often commented on the elections on TV: "There is no country in the world with so little population, so thin and uneven population density, which would also be a member of the European Union and NATO, with the resulting responsibilities, but is not as rich as Luxembourg. " It's a wonderful thing to say. We all know which country we're talking about. I always rely on the fact that we have our own country to rule, on what is best for us. Whether in Ireland, Malaysia or anywhere, we have to do the Estonian thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U142	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U143	Thank you. It's a very beautiful and correct quote. But you yourself referred to the Polish and Austrian models. Ireland is also sparsely populated, flatland, there are mountains, there are mountains, there are mountains, I went there. But yes, indeed, Ireland is not in NATO. But the question. Indeed, in the case of possible alternatives, we will focus on two models of how this can be taken. In most Continental European countries with direct elections, the proposed model of the draft is valid, but there are other countries that have a model of a single transferable voice. Why did the initiators and a very large number of representatives not consider it reasonable to apply a single transferable voice model in a possible direct election model? I would ask that, in the case of a single transferable voice model, you highlight what these possible options would have been if the direct elections had previously been implemented in Estonia by applying a single transferable voice model.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U144	Thank you. I do not remember myself saying directly that the initiators of the draft took over this model from Austria and others. We still followed the principle of direct elections, pointing out the differences in how the Constitution sets out the electoral system and how it could be in our view. Let us say here too: the current situation in which the Riigikogu and also the electoral body have been put into one system is completely unique in the world, and there is no such country. It has also been considered here on the subject that perhaps this right should be given to the electoral body. In my opinion, in today's context, it is already too late to consider this option at all. The electoral body is more common in federal states than in unitary states such as the Republic of Estonia. So I will continue to stick to the fact that Estonia can find its own model. We also have a unique model today, and we do not have to try so hard to find models in the world that we simply take over.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U145	We've developed a procedure. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U146	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. After all, the idea of the draft is to expand the elements of democracy, direct democracy in the constitutional environment of Estonia. It is in the interest of the minutes that the President of the sitting should be given an assessment by the President of the neutral sitting. Would the method of single transferable votes, which allows voters to assess all candidates in order to rank them as attractive, be more open or restrictive to the possibilities of democracy?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U147	Urmas! You'll be able to come and discuss this in the negotiations, and I'm not going into this debate right now. Thank you. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U148	Thank you. Honourable Fatherland ambassadors offer a chrylovic chair game in order to somehow give the impression that we are reforming the presidential order, although in essence we are not reforming. Well, that's not acceptable, of course. But the question to the current rapporteur is this: did you also have a debate in your group in preparation for the draft so that the President's institution, as such, would be abolished at all? I dare say that the last two presidents have deeply discredited this institution with their awakenings and left-liberal political active initiatives.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U149	Thank you. The brief answer would be here that, no, we did not discuss it, because, as I myself mentioned earlier, constitutional institutions are in the Constitution: in the sense of the President, the President as an institution, the Riigikogu and the people as the bearer of the highest state power. But this debate, whether we are going to change our constitution so capitalically that we are excluding the President's institution at all, we did not have any. Rather, we wanted to give the highest authority, or people, the right to make that decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U150	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U151	Thank you. Good Marko! I totally agreed with you when you told me that our president's functions were pretty well in place, but that's not the election procedure. But I think it's a little different though. The functions of the President and the way we choose him are inextricably linked. We cannot talk here about countries like Finland, where the President has completely different functions than Estonia. We need to talk about countries such as Italy and Germany, where it is similar, where the President is also elected by Parliament. But I was a little surprised by your claim that the President cannot abuse power because Estonians have such a character. I remind you, President Päts: was he not Estonian or was the people different in character?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U152	Thank you! There were, of course, several layers on this issue. I think this suggests that there is an extremely good question. It is perhaps too general in view of the substance of the draft that the mistake now lies only with who elects the President. What I personally don't like about this system right now, [this is reflected in] this funny example that I gave for a car that occasionally lacks brakes, it generally slows down, inspection is done, but sometimes it doesn't. Perhaps our system is one where a small number of members of the electoral body can be ruled out by [someone] who [may become] President. In my opinion, this is a nuance in the presidential election, which is a nuance that can be so-called misusing. Was President Päts Estonian or not? Of course he was Estonian. But we cannot take the context of President Päts today and interpret it in such a way that suddenly something like that happens in 1934. There are several historians in this hall who can certainly give long lectures on the overall historical background in the whole world where Konstantin Päts and Laidoner took power. It's a completely different subject, and I don't think it's gonna be a bad guy this day. The population of the world is already seven times that of Konstantin Päts.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U153	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U154	Good manager! Good waitress! Are you familiar with the verbograms of all of them more than ten times when they come out with such a bill? How many times do you think this debate will be repeated tens of times when [this debate] has taken place here? Another small question: did the Centre Party Group, when it was decided to come up with it, discuss it at all, or was it said that we had been in the drawer for 100 years and now suddenly succeed, as long as it came out in time and quickly?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U155	Thank you. Very good question again. Because I can say here that if it had been removed from the drawer, collected dust and presented simply automatically, then I would say that this initiative is populist. But our party, our group, the party above all, discussed the issue of the presidential election at its council meeting at the end of August. It is a joint decision by the party council that this draft will come out at the very beginning of the autumn session. In fact, I personally proposed an amendment to this temporal definition. I'm not familiar with previous verbatim reports or previous reports. And totally purposefully. It seems to me that we have progressed a lot as a society, we have all gotten richer in experience, we have just been behind the presidential elections, which have not been before, for the first time, when the President of the Republic was elected in the second round of elections. So I don't think that the context that would have been taken from the old verbatim is appropriate. In the fact that the questions are repeated, I am almost convinced that I have never looked in these [stenograms].
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U156	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U157	Thank you. I imagine you and I have different opinions. In my opinion, the current problem is rather that the functions of the President are too vague. Without consulting the Riigikogu, the President can travel to some country he decides to go to, and the Riigikogu is only post factum informed about what happened there. I see a problem here. But as for this Päts story, I don't think it's because the world has changed. It's about the rule of law. The rule of law is based on the fact that the law is not based on whether a person is good or bad, that if we choose a good person, he is also a good President. Laws in the rule of law are those that exclude a bad person from doing bad things so that they are legal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U158	Thank you. Well, the fact that the president can go wherever he wants to, we've seen it, that our presidents are going where they want. They sometimes go where we send them. Maybe a funny example, but the previous president went to Moscow and invited Putin over. In this Parliament, there was talk that he might come to visit, as long as he left. But it's got nothing to do with this, and maybe it's kind of a humorous cut-off. But as for the fact that our system precludes a bad person from becoming president, I dare be convinced that the people can rule out such bad people by their own choices. I do not believe that there is a so-called Count Dracula among us whose face appears only after he has been elected President of the Republic. All the 14 countries that have been repeatedly mentioned have there ever been a bad person who has become president because the people can't choose? I'm convinced that the people can choose, that our society has evolved. When the Riigikogu adopted the current constitution, we came from a completely different regime and I believe that the way of thinking was different. So I do not agree with this argument that, given the right to elect a President to the people, we are no longer the rule of law. Categorically, I'm pushing it off the table.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U159	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U160	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress Marko! Indeed, today we have talked a lot about the role of Parliament and the direct elections so that the citizen can directly elect the President of his country. At the same time, I do not believe that we have touched a very strong instrument such as the electoral body. The electoral body has also played a very important role throughout the ages. Here through your mouth, it sounded like if this Parliament chooses, right, it's like it's kind of a sting if the President doesn't pass the law. However, there is also the instrument that the electoral body chooses, and is there not? Was this whole electoral topic raised in the debate, by the initiators in the debate, or was it completely sidelined, as if it was not an important part of this discussion?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U161	Thank you, good Andres! Of course, that is a good question. There was, of course, talk of the electoral body, because it is now an integral part of our system. Whether it is needed or not in the presidential elections is a question of its own. Five years ago was needed, the President was not elected to the electoral body at the time, this time was not needed and the President was elected before that. When I was preparing this report, I went through the material. Rather, it has been said that the electoral body is characteristic of federal states, i.e. countries where regions are very different and with very different possibilities, say, different-looking, with their own rules, it is justified to come together and decide who will become the Head of State. Estonia is so small, [though] just now the Padari hall does not have the language of Setu spoken in one corner and the Estonian language is spoken in the other. We're not that big a country. In my opinion, if the electoral system had been changed five years ago or even ten years ago, it would have been more appropriate. But it seems to me today that this would have been an intermediate phase and that this intermediate phase is already late in the current situation. But, of course, we also had this discussion in the political party and in the political group. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U162	Mikhail Lotman has a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U163	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. I want to draw your attention to the fact that the speaker severely and tendingly distorted my words and also the Estonian Constitution. My words he distorted by saying that in my opinion, if we choose the President directly, Estonia is not the rule of law. I didn't say anything like that, and I didn't think about it. At the same time, the speaker said several times that Estonia would choose a leader for itself. From the point of view of the Estonian Constitution, the President is not the leader.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U164	Got it. We got that verbogram. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U165	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! We stayed with this electoral body. I like it. For me, it was an extremely good experience five years ago. I would not throw it into the trash bin with the first swing, but I would suggest another idea that would be extremely brave by the Riigikogu. If the Riigikogu is not elected and [election] goes to the electoral body, then the local government and Riigikogu try to choose and if the election is not elected, the members of the Riigikogu will be expelled from this room. Local government voters [can't] get out until there's a white smoke. You can only shove NATO's groceries down there when there's a slice of door, but you can't get out before you do. The Riigikogu will also have some motivation, such party games as are. After all, at one point it begins to be the ego of all members of the Riigikogu: we are being pushed aside! Have you thought about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U166	Thank you. The short answer would be that then we would probably get the exhaust President. I don't know if we want a president who's been drained. Here you can bounce a ball between different collections, the Riigikogu and the electoral body, but we do not deal with this bill here in terms of the beauty of the game. The current system has been commented on by the authors of the Constitution. Their assumption was that members of the Riigikogu or political parties, political groups, must find the widest possible commonality and, as if, seek reconciliation among themselves. This time, this conciliation or consensus was reached as a result of negotiations. But what has changed since then? We have sworn the President into office, but the consensus that could have been given in seeking such a compromise after that has not survived. So, unfortunately, this idea, which the constitutional authors have been communicating, is not of lasting value. Well, this white smoke issue is, of course, taken from the Vatican. The Vatican elections will achieve much greater attention worldwide than the elections of the Estonian President. It seems to me that this is such an extreme example that this draft was not discussed by the initiators.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U167	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U168	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You have submitted a draft amendment to the procedure for electing the President of the Republic [of the law], which has been signed by many members of the EKRE, and I have also personally signed to have this draft adopted. I remember very much how it was presented. Dear Jaanus Karilaid gave a beautiful speech with a pathetic loud voice about how we will meet the wishes of the people. But every thing has, though. In November last year, while the Conservative People's Party of Estonia had presented exactly the same draft, the Centre Party's members did not support this draft and the hall was practically empty. If my memory isn't too deluded, only the esteemed waitress asked a pathetic question. The question is why you want to take the political point by wanting to put forward the [draft], but when the EKRE did, you did not support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U169	Thank you for the opportunity to look back in history! I remember this procedural question because it really embarrassed me. I'm sorry, but the questioner then presented a draft for the initiation of a public poll, not a draft amending the constitution. There's a pretty big difference. At the time, I had a procedural question. I even remember Hanno Pevkur being in the manager's chair at the time. I asked him what bill we're dealing with right now. The honourable questioner was here at the time, so we have exactly changed our roles in this case. The draft was about the initiation of a public survey, but the whole speech and the answers to the questions were just as if a draft amending the Constitution had been tabled. That is why I asked this procedural question at the time. I remember it very accurately.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U170	Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U171	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good waitress! I understand your desire, the willingness of the initiators of the bill to meet and to do something about the dissatisfaction of the people. But isn't the main problem the way the President's role is understood at all? Your exchange with Mikhail Lotman also turned out to be like the people would choose a leader. Isn't that exactly one of those places where people's expectations may not be in line with what the Constitution really provides for? After all, the biggest problem has been that the President's mandate does not respond if he is elected with a large mandate from the people. How can we solve this problem? Why don't you think about how people can understand the spirit of today's constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U172	Thank you. I guess I have to apologize. It is not easy to answer all the different questions in a remote control. I said yes, "Head of State," but I wanted to say "Head of State." According to the Constitution, the President of the Republic of Estonia is the Head of State. Now the question is whether the President's powers or tasks are appropriate. I am convinced that, in this case, they are perfectly in place. Whether the people, if they could choose directly, would expect the President to have more power, I say that there are no such studies, it is rather cognitive or hypothetical. But you, as a college person, know that scientists are certainly not willing to sign something that is hypothetical. It is necessary to carry out either a comparative analysis or empirical observations and then you can begin to claim something and seek scientific confirmation of these assumptions or hypotheses. I would now say that we would stick to giving this supreme bearer of state power one right, which, in fact, this spirit of the Constitution would allow. The Constitution itself says that the people are the bearer of the highest state power. Perhaps this spirit will be fully preserved, and even quality will increase. The contents of the President's institution, let's say, maybe these discussions will come after this really happens. But we're in this hall, I'm pretty sure we're not afraid of work. Our job is to debate, discuss and find the best solution. So I'd say that we're gonna roll up our sleeves years later, and we're gonna deal with this. But we should not be dealing with this because we need to prevent these changes from coming. So let's make it even and sharp, but let's take consistent steps.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U173	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U174	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! One important part of the backbone of democracy in Estonia is the electoral system. The integrity of Estonia is the starting point that is always spoken of, along with the regional administrative division. When we are talking about Parliament, we are actually talking about electoral circles. When we are talking about the collection of voters, we are talking about the involvement of different Estonian municipalities. This change removes the role of the Head of State from such regionality. Did you discuss that our big problem is that more and more people live in Tallinn and this golden circle? Are we choosing the heads of the Estonian state or are we choosing the heads of the golden circle? That is the question that should be answered in this debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U175	Thank you. In fact, this question opens up one of the pussies that may not have to be brought to the table in this dispute, but may now be used in the context of this question. It's a decoy duck thing. Just because we have constituencies does not mean that all the delegates elected here are from the circles from which they have obtained their mandate. As a result, there are considerably more gold ring ambassadors in this Chamber than a mandate from the regions would allow. But I'm telling you, I think it's gonna unravel a whole other pus that shouldn't be discussed here. And this involvement of local governments... I believe that the Republic of Estonia is small enough and that our population is small enough. This [opinion] that if voters are not involved in the presidential process, we will get a golden circle with the President I have such a feeling that it is once again hypothetical, which cannot even be proved. Still, let's say the President's relationship with the local authorities is furnished by the person who works in Kadriorg. We have had very different presidents, I am certainly not going to compare them here, but there have been those who have been more face to face with their people, there have been those people, those who have been face to face from abroad. One of the tasks given to the President is to represent the Estonian state in foreign policy. I do not think that the President we are going to get is directly related to the involvement of the local authorities, who take into account the opinion of the local authorities. I'd stick to the fact that they're not in direct contact with each other.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U176	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U177	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Toomas to Kivimägi: I can't ask you a question. I would also like us to have a second reading, and all of us here can express our thoughts in five minutes, and who doesn't make sense in five minutes, he can always take three more minutes. But why dramatize, we do not choose the President for Estonia, we simply choose the President for Estonia. That's not why he has so much power to put there if the choice doesn't turn out to be so good, because we know that the old people are saying that it's gonna be new and worse. But the problem is, at that point, the presidential candidates will compete with each other, who can afford the most. The differences are starting to come from whether one candidate drinks coffee and the other drinks tea, because on the whole it's going to be a show like that, like your mother smells familiar, and after a commercial break, no one remembers how many straws anyone had. Indrek Tarand would have become President of the Republic of Estonia in 2009. Would that have been good?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U178	Thank you. Of course, if we were to vote for the President, the show you mentioned would certainly be bigger than 2016 when a lot of presidential candidates literally campaigned. At the time, it was discussed in the same way that this campaign was not directly needed, because the people could not choose them anyway. As we have finally seen, none of them worked through the summer and worked hard for the President [candidates] were elected either. Once again, I refer to this book, which has already been mentioned several times. There, too, this nuance has been pointed out that it will certainly be allowed to do things that the President's institution will not allow them to do later, and the show will also have more, and the expenditure on the campaign will also be higher. But in view of the fact that these empty promises can manipulate the entire nation, I say on this point to manipulate 101 people, it seems to me that it is certainly cheaper and more effective than to manipulate the entire nation. So it seems to me that this quality is going to increase here, too. If someone really is determined to instill the entire nation so to speak, it shows the ability of this team to consolidate the people behind it. What's wrong with getting a president with such a capable team?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U179	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U180	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! You have answered various questions here that have touched both the garden and the garden holes. All the corners have been covered. I wanted to understand whether these are your personal views and convictions or what you have answered here and reflected in the discussion are in keeping with the understanding of all the initiators. How many meetings did the initiators have where you discussed these issues? Was there a consensus that you reached a common understanding of only the changes to the electoral order and that you did not discuss the change to the President's office, or did you not find a consensus that his duties could be reviewed in connection with the procedure for electing the President?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U181	Thank you. Since questions have indeed come from, as you yourself mentioned, the garden and the garden hole, I have certainly been forced to use my own personal opinions on certain issues, because the initiators of the draft did not hold such a meeting, where exactly the same questions would have been asked that I could rely on in preparing or commenting on my answers. At least in our group, or say, in the council, where the initiation of this draft began, the question of the President's duties was not discussed. So this conflict was no longer, as was the hypothesis on the question, that there was such a [debate] and we did not find consensus. No, this question was not raised.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U182	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U183	Thank you, Mr President. Good Marko! I would argue against my colleague, Mr Lotman, who gave the example of Finland. In the sense that there have been two completely contradictory tendencies in Finland. Firstly, the President's power has been greatly reduced in the Finnish Constitution. The current President, Sauli Niinistö, has much less power than Urho Kaleva Kekkos, elected by the electoral body, for example. At the same time, the direct election of the President in Finland, the election by the people, is quite a new thing. It's a matter of the last few decades. In fact, before the President was elected by the people, he had much more power. Do you agree or do you object that you can't create such a direct link that the president's power is proportional to his election by the people?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U184	The short answer is once again this thank you for the question! just that I'd rather say it's not in a direct relationship. It would be extremely difficult to find that connection. In the same way, it was discussed here with my colleagues and was meant for the same case that in Finland, precisely when direct elections were being held, the President's power was being curtailed. Of course, by reminding myself of my favorite quote again, I would not like to directly compare other countries. It would be recalled that it is precisely in our own country or our own people that we will find a suitable option in terms of how we will fill the institution of the President and how we will choose him. The example of Finland is extremely good, which I think proves that there is no real link between the size of the mandate and the so-called perfection of power. So that's a very good point.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U185	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U186	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! I will try to think about this policy-making way for you, your group and your coalition associates. There aren't really any coalition mates here, so we couldn't make a deal. Well, it's like, as I've heard, this bill stays on the table of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I have a question, so he doesn't stay on that shelf. Have you thought about what book Thomas would give to Kivimägi so that this bill would not be left to collect dust on that shelf? So that there is no empty space on that shelf, he could be given a reasonable book by the Commission. We could move on with this bill. But it's the same policy. The Minister of Education and Science just last week brought before us an action plan for the transition to education in Estonian, about which the middle party said it was not appropriate. Now I see there's a bill that doesn't fit the others. Is that some kind of idea of a new way of doing politics?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U187	Thank you. Since there were several layers on this issue again, I will try to respond to or comment on all of them by memory. This book, I don't know, would be easy to say that if you had to choose only one book, it would be extremely difficult. Many books need to be read and processed to make wise decisions, and I dare say that reading alone is not enough. We can still make wise decisions if we discuss matters and, in advance, do not so-called shut down any attitudes in our souls. The fact that the coalition partner has not signed the bill is perhaps where a good nuance emerges, which can be recommended to political parties. Not recommending "recommendation" is [at this point] an extremely bad word. But quite a number of political parties have probably, over time, been either programically or mentally rejecting direct elections. Now, the same nuance I was talking about at the beginning, that this is a great window of time. This window of time enables this change to actually be realized. Some political parties have previously written in writing that they do not support direct elections, and this is the basis for both asking questions and giving future speeches. But this debate also allows for the revision of political party programmes. I am not going to mention specifically, I know to a large extent those parties that have so-called 'closed' this point. This debate can also be held in its own large councils and come along with the call that I made for us to go, now, in full composition, to support this draft and to make a decision in our own composition, no one, not the initiators, not those who are coming forward with it, cannot take this political point. We're still scared by rivalry from time to time that somebody's gonna take it. If we show that we are, 101 Members of the Riigikogu, in favour of this bill, no one gets the sign that he did this draft or he pushed it through, but this formation decided to finish the first reading, I mean now this three stages, so that we can have the first stage completed, and the next composition can already make a final decision because of these discussions and attitudes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U188	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U189	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In today's system, I mean, when we look at the electoral body, one of the most successful aspects is that it has a strong regional aspect. We know that Tallinn's influence is growing and growing, and the population here in Tallinn plus the surrounding municipalities is already almost half the Estonian population. But the number of voters is the same example here, Tallinn versus Ruhnu is 400 times the proportion of Ruhnu's vote in Tallinn, the percentage of Ruhnu's representative. How do you comment that we reject this one of the few well-functioning regional aspects, and that's the way that the big cities will choose the president for us?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U190	Thank you. As I said in the meantime when I answered one question, electoral councils are actually politically characteristic of countries with very large regional characteristics, i.e. federal states, not unitary states, as is the Republic of Estonia. That's one thing. Yes, the aspect of regional representation is very important. Several presidential campaigns have shown that the Riigikogu is more of a place where I say well in general right now, so to speak, the urban men choose the president, and when the electoral body comes together, the rural men choose. There are no derogatory nuances in my response right now. At the same time, I, as well as the questioner, have both come from the local government. We know that the electoral body has previously been sent to the Council, perhaps the Chairman of the Council or some member of the Council, who has not even received a clear mandate in his own region. I mean here that some of the presidents of the council are alternate members and, thanks to possible leads on the ground, he has received this position. It is precisely if these very voters exercise this veto right, that they either shoot empty ballots or write "Miki-Hir" or exclude someone who does not become the President of the Republic, then to my soul, such a thing is against me. Our out-of-court system today, however, I am commenting on other people's thoughts, was initially [considered] in order to rule out the chance for Arnold Rüütel to become president, later in order to keep Savisaar away. I am not going to bring the names of people who are active in politics today. Such an exclusionary system is, in my opinion, even the most undemocratic. That's my personal opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U191	I don't see any more questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U192	Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U193	Let's go to the second report. The rapporteur is Toomas Kivimägi, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U194	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Commission discussed this draft at its meeting on 23 November 2021. I regret, as an initiative, that Mr Reinsalu did not discuss the method of a single transferable vote at the committee meeting and that this was not raised by the representative of the Fatherland, who did not attend the session either. But that wasn't what we were talking about. But let us now go to the debate at the committee meeting. A good colleague, Marko Šorin, also made a very balanced and very thorough presentation at the Commission meeting. But in this Chamber, he also exceeded what was in the Commission, which is why I hope Marko will not mind if I do not repeat what he said in his committee sitting here, because that would be, to a large extent, a repetition. He received a second from Paul Puustusmaa, who also praised this draft and pointed out that Lennart Meri was already referring to it at the end of his term of office. I do consider it important, as Mr Puustusmaa mentioned a number of our colleagues, as well as their views, to quote: 'In a fascinating way, the current proposal has been done virtually literally in the past, and it has been supported, among other things, by [i]same people, such as Urmas Reinsalu, supported by Siim Kallas, supported by Jürgen Ligi, and can hope that their support remains. " I just think it is important for colleagues in this Chamber to say this so that the people who have been called can either confirm it or disprove it. However, this position was expressed by Mr Paul of the Puustusmaa Commission. The second issue raised by Mr Puustusmaa is one very fundamental question: namely the choice of the method of amending the constitution. Namely, he referred to a waitress from the initiators who had already proposed this method, or at least the initiators had considered it important that two successive Riigikogu formations should do so. That was the choice that had been made. But Paul Puustusmaa indicated that the method of amending the constitution can only be chosen after the second reading, i.e. between the second and third reading. Indeed, in that sense, Paul in Puustusmaa is absolutely right that the way of amending the constitution is decided at third reading. As you all know, ladies and gentlemen, the opportunity to change the constitution is first in the referendum, second in the two successive formations of the Riigikogu, and third in the urgency of the Riigikogu. There are three different ways. Indeed, the Constitution states that what kind of method is chosen is a little even peculiar was, in fact, decided only after the second reading. The Constitutional Commission shall decide on this choice or proposal to the Grand Chamber at its meeting. The other thing is, when it gets to this hall, whether its way is part of this bill or not. If you look back in history, in 2015 there was a bill for lowering your voting age from 18 years to 16 years in municipal council elections. Then, indeed, this way of amending the constitution and the draft itself were put to the vote at the same time. But it doesn't always have to be like this. As an example, if the Committee on Constitutional Affairs considers that a referendum could be the way to change the constitution, a majority of 3/5 members of the Riigikogu will be required to vote on the referendum. In such a case, it should be voted through before the Chamber and then voted on the draft. The comments read that if the same choice is made and if, for example, this proposal does not find a way to amend the Constitution, to put it to a referendum as an example by me, [support], then the draft will be considered to have failed and will fall out of the procedure. However, in the case of the choice of two successive forms of amendment, it can be put to the vote at the same time as the draft, since the number of votes required for both the draft and the chosen five to be supported is the same number. Marko Šorin also admitted that they have indeed expressed their views. He also admitted that this choice was actually a question of the grand hall of the Riigikogu after the second reading on the proposal of the Constitutional Committee, but they, as initiators, simply felt that it would be clearly more appropriate and better, because indeed two Riigikogu configurations can make this choice in what way and how to proceed with it. The second major block of discussions was whether it was really necessary to have substantive arguments to change the procedure for electing the President of the Republic to the extent that the initiators of the draft have come forward or not. As chairman of the committee, I emphasised that Estonia is still a parliamentary republic, in accordance with the content and clause and the idea of the Constitution, where representative democracy dominates direct democracy. If we also look at this division of power, it actually correlates with the power given to Parliament or given to the President or to the Government of the Republic. Indeed, I have seen this concern here, which has also been referred to on several occasions in this Chamber, that, on the one hand, when it comes to the direct election of the President of the Republic, the President of the Republic should not have a much greater power, as the people have the expectation that the [President] will have a mandate for such a large nation, and then there will be a disappointment that the mandate will be large, but little power. That could be a problem. I'm sure it's not today. Since the President of the Republic is elected either in the Riigikogu or in the electoral body, the [people] will not feel that the President of the Republic would have such a mandate if he had such a draft and the President of the Republic was directly elected by the people. However, the initiators of the bill did not see the problem. Marko Šorin, on behalf of the initiators of the draft, also mentioned that over the entire 30 years of independence, both the people and politicians have seen the limits of power on which the President of the Republic is acting. They do not have, like, expectations or perceptions of a power or mandate greater than what is written. Paul Puustusmaa gave him a second, who said that if the president gets a big mandate, but he has little power, it's like a classic intimidation. Mr Paul Puustusmaa also mentioned at the meeting of the committee what made me a little cautious that, on the one hand, as the initiator of the draft, he did not consider it important to consider the relationship between the division of power, the President of the Republic, the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic, but he did not rule out that this could be done at a later date. This is also what Mr Šorin, the rapporteur for the initiators of the draft, referred to in this Chamber. I think it's kind of a little hesitant, since it's the impression that we're gonna do the President's direct election, and then we're gonna start putting in power. However, my personal opinion, which I did not express at the time in the Commission, is that it should be together. Not that we're gonna do the President of the Republic's direct election today, and then we're gonna get him into power. They should take place in parallel. Another story is that it is not considered necessary to give additional power. As my colleague Kunna hinted, the President of the Republic of Finland, who is now directly elected by the people, has not really done so, and perhaps in Finland this conflict has not arisen either. So there was a lot of talk about whether or not additional power should be given. It is also important to note Oudekki Loone's position. He explained that the first role of the President of the Republic was to supervise Parliament so that Parliament's work would comply in substance and form with the Constitution. There has been a lot of talk about this in this Chamber, too, which has been discussed. On the one hand, if the President of the Republic is elected by Parliament, he must supervise who elected him. In this regard, it can, of course, be assessed that, when it comes to direct elections to the President of the Republic, the so-called mandate of the President of the Republic to supervise this Parliament is considerably higher. However, I admit that time has shown that there has been no conflict or contradiction. If the President of the Republic has found that a law adopted by the Riigikogu does not comply with the Constitution, there are several examples if he has not declared it. In essence, there has been no such contradiction in practice. The remark made by Lauri Läänemets is very important. He was concerned that if it was a direct election to the President of the Republic, the President could no longer be a mediator. He gave just this example, which is also the last example of practice, that the election of President Alar Karis required the support of four of the five political parties in Parliament in order for the President of the Republic to be elected. This has indeed succeeded, and this is actually a positive example of this, a confirmation of the functioning and goodness of the existing electoral system. There really is going to be a bit of a contradiction here. I, too, dare to say that the President of the Republic has a much broader political mandate and support than he could have in direct elections, especially in view of the last example. I would stress that there could be direct elections. In the case of direct elections, he is probably initially a candidate for one party or another, who will be elected at one point, and then this political support behind his back will be considerably smaller. In the case of today's electoral system and the example of Alar Karis, this political support is considerably greater. I don't think that should be underestimated. Lauri Läänemets also stressed the same issue of powers. He also saw the contradiction that today's President should not be directly elected by the people. That was Lauri's position in the West Forest. He did not rule out that the powers of the President of the Republic could be increased, but he was of the opinion that this debate could not last a few months or even one or two years. This should be a significantly longer period. Paul of Pulpland said the same thing I was referring to. The same issue of power, whether to give additional power or not. Mr Puustusmaa said at the committee meeting that this issue could be decided in the future if it should become clear that the current mandate would require more rights and responsibilities for the President. He doesn't think it's necessary right now. Perhaps the same thing that I have repeated and which Mr Šorin also expressed: they, as initiators of the draft, do not see that at the same time the powers of the President should necessarily be increased, which is an important subject for discussion. However, Paul Puustusmaa mentioned that he did not agree with Oudekki Loone's view that, as an alternative, the power of the electoral body could be increased. There has also been a lot of talk about the electoral body here. Mr. Pulpland said it was the worst idea that could ever be. People are elected to the electoral body by foreigners, temporary residents and their children and, therefore, the electoral body is not appropriate for the independent state to elect a president. Rather, the influence of the electoral body could be reduced or eliminated at all. The comment that I said in the committee session is very important and I consider it important to mention here too. Namely, the constitutional comments. I do think that 30 years for a single constitution is not too long and it cannot be said that he is something old and needs reform. In fact, as rapporteur for the initiators of the previous speaker, the Constitution has served us well and really must be appreciated by the foresighted people who drafted this constitution, so well it has worked so far. These comments also include this provision: "The choice of the method of electing the Head of State generally takes into account the competence of the Head of State. In providing for the direct election of the President in a parliamentary state, it must be taken into account that this will give the President a strong mandate, with few rights to use to the extent that the people expect. This may lead to public disappointment and constitutional problems if the Head of State, on the basis of the mandate received from the people, starts to extend his powers in practice. " This provision is in the comments of the Constitution, a description of the manner in which the President was elected and the President directly elected. Toomas Kivimägi, as well as Marko Šorin, we both mentioned that we believe that today's election procedure for the President of the Republic probably needs to be improved. To what extent, it is a matter of its own. The proposal that I put forward and which I certainly do not claim to be author is that, in any case, the President of the Republic could be elected and should receive the elected electoral body. There is, in fact, one very simple solution: these same blank and corrupt notes should be excluded from the number of valid notes and then this problem is not [deck]. This is what Marko Šorin actually repeatedly suggested that it is not like a good method. This opportunity is entirely there. Today, with my colleagues in the secretariat of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I discussed whether this amendment would require a change in the constitution or not. We read § 79 of the Constitution, which states: "The Council shall elect the President of the Republic by a majority of the members of the electoral body who have taken part in the vote. ' by a majority of the participating members. Regarding the question that is considered to be the one who has participated in them, the same view has been expressed in the comments: "Everyone who has placed the note in the ballot box does not have to be counted as a voter. It is possible to consider as participation only the publication of the preference for selection e to be based on the number of valid notes and to disregard blank and corrupt notes. Similar logic is used in the calculation of the simple quota in the Riigikogu elections. " Such an example is actually there, and for me it was very important, still a fundamental question as to whether it requires a change in the constitution or not. I think all colleagues agree that this could be the point where the [president] will finally be elected if the President of the Republic of the Riigikogu cannot be elected. I think this change would be self-evident. I also asked my colleague Marko Šorin whether the initiators of the draft had also discussed their proposal with the President of the Republic. We all know that one of the first statements made by the President of the Republic after he took office was that he raised on the table the necessity or possibility or justification of changing the procedure for electing the President of the Republic. At the meeting of the Commission, my colleague Marko Šorin replied that they had contacted the Office of the President of the Republic and discussed it with the Head of the Office, and the President had sent him such a message that he did not intend to state his position at the moment, but he was very much in favour of the politicians' debate. So the President of the Republic is very open to it, and it is not a surprise either, because he himself actually came up with a similar proposal. As far as I know, and I believe that all colleagues are aware of this, on 13 December the President of the Republic has asked the leaders of the political groups represented in the Riigikogu to discuss all these issues, including the draft that we have on the table today, how and how to proceed with it. So much more that the Commission had also been asked to attend the meeting as a representative of the Ministry of Justice of Mariko Jõeorg-Jurtshenko, but his speech was relatively short this time, insofar as the Government of the Republic did not formulate a position on this draft. A corresponding position and this letter exists. That's when the procedural decisions were made. Firstly, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 7 December. It was a consensual decision. Secondly, propose that the first reading be completed. On its side were Toomas Kivimägi, Oudekki Loone, Tõnis Mölder, Paul Puustusmaa, Marko Storm, 0 abstentions were 1, Lauri Läänemets. Thirdly, appoint Toomas Kivimägi, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as the representative of the lead committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U195	Thank you very much. Now we can ask questions. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U196	Thank you. I'd like to do a procedural question first. May I?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U197	All right, procedural, if it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U198	The question is that we only have four minutes until the end of the sitting, and if I ask for one minute, there will be three minutes to respond. I know Thomas is very principled and wise, but I have a very wise question too, so I would expect a very thorough answer. I am afraid that it is not possible to ask me this question at this point, because I do not like this simply crossing in terms of time. Is it possible, Mr President, to put my question on the agenda for the next day, on the agenda for tomorrow?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U199	I can't just do it, but we can agree that if Thomas really gets halfway to answer the question, we'll continue tomorrow. I'm not opening negotiations until he's finished answering. So please ask a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U200	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I heard you talk about the Constitution. You also referred to the constitutional comments that it says so. I recall that the constitutional comments have been amended at least three times during this period. Accordingly, I assume that the generations' growth has also changed the visions of the principles of the Constitution, and they may not always coincide with what the founders of our constitution originally came out with. I therefore consider that it is not justified to address this issue solely on the basis of comments. Here's my question. The highest power in Estonia is exercised by the people according to the Constitution. I don't think we have an argument about that. For me, the strange question is when a small group of people decide on the decision-making power of the highest authority. Is that following the principles of the Constitution on this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U201	Thank you, good questioner! I was lucky to find out your question, so now I should stop answering so I could get ready for tomorrow. But no, I'd love to. Point one, this is certainly not a violation of the principles of the Constitution. Once again, I repeat the saying a hundred times that according to the Constitution, Estonia is a parliamentary republic. It is the case that representative democracy dominates direct democracy. Yes, indeed, the people are the highest authority, but it also states, through which they carry it out, that they will carry it out through a referendum and through the elections of the Riigikogu. So in this sense, the Constitution defines the forms and ways through which the people exercise their highest authority. But when we look at powers, competences and responsibilities, it is actually clear that the Republic of Estonia is a parliamentary republic according to the Constitution, which means a similar division of power as it now states. The second, which concerns comments. I do not want to make comments above the provision. The rule of law is, of course, more important, but just to create this background, it is often important to see what is behind it, what is meant for. I do not want to praise the comments I made here a few times, although more often, I referred to the various provisions of the Constitution in saying one position or another. But the comments are just the background. Once again, they do not take precedence over the provisions of the law, whether it is a constitution or some other law. But you can at least create backgrounds and opportunities. Once again, in any case, we are obviously, if you also look at the Commission's procedural decisions as a group, of course, open to this debate on the procedure for electing the President of the Republic. Either to the extent that it is written in this draft or in any other or third way, in any case, we are quite convinced that certain changes need to be made there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U202	Now I have a question: is this question considered closed by the respondent?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U203	Yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-07_U204	Then I'll finish today's session and we'll move on tomorrow.
