ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Today we have the last working day of the VI session of the Riigikogu. It's not like he's on a big day, we don't have any points on the agenda. It is possible, however, to pass on drafts and enquiries if you wish. Really? Not even from the Fatherland? Got it. There are no drafts and no requests for information. Then we'll do a presence check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U2	The 54 good ambassadors are still with us. Now, as we have no points on today's agenda, I can declare the sitting closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U3	But before we all go on a Christmas vacation with our families or even a meeting with the voters, I suggest we not leave the hall because I hear we have Santa in the house and he's gonna be here at some point.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U4	Hello, hello. Hello, hello! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U5	Please! Everything's prepared here. Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U6	Thank you. Thank you. Thanks a lot, Hanno! Okay, I'll look behind you. I was hoping to see Martin-boy there, but you're there. There you go. (Martin Helme: "I was banished. ") Banished now, yes. I thought I had such a good steady back at least. But it's good to see you, really! Noble, in such good health! Well, I guess we've all gotten a few more years around here in a year. The Christmas man is also 42 kilos heavier today than last year, which shows that life is actually going pretty well. Who else can I see? You see, there are people here... Oh, I thought you were shopping. But it's okay! What, then, can we say about this year? Every one of you thinks and remembers. When I walk through the city, through the land, through the woods, through the villages, I see that the candlelight is more this year than usual during Christmas. The heart is warmer now. One person was driving a car with a candle on the window. So we're kind of on our way to a more natural environment. I've been thinking this is one of the first steps of a green turn. When a person looks at his electric bill, his face turns green and the first step is done. Some of the lonely ones are, from the nearest point of view, merely indifferently camels and didn't interact with it. One day, we'll get back in a circle to the fact that the utility costs are close to zero, and that's because, well, what doesn't pay if they don't? What matters most is that there is a good word for everyone. And if there's often, I'll see that there's no one... Perhaps [there should be] a debate on a crucial national issue about the joy of Christmas: Christmas will come as usual this year, but the proposal has been that the joy be pushed to next year. I don't quite agree with that either. What's the pleasure? Here you can see the person who has listened to the call to find the least handsome sweater. Let's just say that a sweater that is woven in jams during rush hour is the best thing. You can see what date and when it's been the hardest. One deer will suffer no criticism. I know the moose, and I've never seen an animal like that in my pack. But today's man has gone so far from nature, he just has to remember it by knitting. What else did I want to say? I have a gift bag with me. I imagined that today there were not many people in the Chamber, because we only have one item on the agenda, it is giving gifts. I thought no one cared, but vice versa. It warms my heart. We'll give you a hand signal, good people who have a poem prepared for today. You see, it keeps coming. So, uh, you see, Mardi has one too. I had a plan that I wouldn't listen to your poems today because there was another plan. But actually, later on, I will, once we've done a very important job. It is often said that there is no unanimous cooperation in the Riigikogu. I don't really agree with that. Given the number of laws that have been passed in Estonia, regulations would suffice for about 40 ordinary, normal countries. And there's more and more. That's why you can't be blamed. But in order to demonstrate how the Riigikogu actually, regardless of which political group it is from or where it belongs or to which it is going in the meantime, from one political group to another or from one political group to another, the cooperation actually goes all the time and very fast. It is often said that if there is a good idea for a coalition to happen, the opposition will certainly oppose it. Or vice versa: the opposition comes up with a good idea, but the coalition opposes it, although it secretly thinks it's a good idea, but unfortunately it's not ours. Let's do a big joint effort. I have a bag here. All right, I'm gonna throw it on my shoulder. I look at a bottle of water with a jealous look, but I can't drink because I can't have a beard. Now, I'm gonna go over to this table and I'm gonna have [something] in this bag. I ask one brave person from each group to come here. I understand there are few of them, but the person who knits his own sweater... Hello! Well, noble too. I'll put it over here. Here you go, Upper. Take that towel from the other end of the towel. Let's pick it up. All right, let's match it. Hey, Mart! It's good to see you! As we now see here, the camera can also look at it, there is a puzzle here. I'll give each group a nice bag. Mart, I'll give you one. There's a bag for everyone here. [[Mart Helme points out that there is another Mart, namely the Netship.]] The other Mart, too, I see, yes! Let's pass it on. (Santa passes to the representative of each political group a sachet containing pieces of puzzle.) The Fatherland can too, yes. (Mart Networker asks if he can.) Yeah, maybe you too. It is now possible to make sure that you can call for help. Here's a picture we're putting together. All you guys thought we could get out of here by half eleven... (Somebody's gonna pass on Santa's fallen belt and braces.) Oh, I've already lost my belt. Thank you. You thought we could get out of here at halfway, but send a message back home that we won't be moving until 6:00. George! [[Addresses Üllar Saaremäe.]] Or what, George, it's noble! I suddenly remembered you're George. Noble, please, there's a piece of paper on the window. Get that big paper over there and give it to me. Now, which picture do we put together? People on the balcony! It's a very simple picture. It is a beehive that, of course, symbolizes the House of the Riigikogu. Here, you see, the Üllar flies, and here's Mart and Riina, and here in a row they keep flying. That's the picture we put together. Each one has ten pieces of a puzzle. Let's get them out of the box. You can invite a helper, such as Mart, to keep that picture in your sight. It's kind of a picture. Are there such [helpers] in the EKRE? Maybe some of them are. There's an auxiliary microphone here, too. Riina's already started. Usually the puzzle is assembled... (Mart Helme: "We did not agree on this, where the lower edge is and where the upper one is. " Riina Sikkut: "Here's the top. ") I'll go and see for myself where the upper or lower side is. Maybe the camera can send it to the big screen. You see, there's actually more of these pictures, they can be distributed more. I see that... Mart, do you have any bees?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U7	No, I'm allergic to bees. To the great sadness of all progressive mankind, I was attacked by bees ten years ago and almost died. But for the benefit of all progressive humanity, I survived.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U8	Yeah, yeah, that's a nice Christmas story to cheer up on. I thought there was nothing strange about a beautiful picture like a beehives. Sure. It's such a beautiful skill. But I was afraid it wouldn't work out. At the same time, members of the rest of the Riigikogu, be a good and buzzing background. [[It's buzzing.]] Viktor's here to help. I think the first end went very easily, and now this hard part comes. Here you can see how it is handled, whether the roof should be on top of everything, or whether the roof can be used as a wall or as a floor. If anyone sees the big picture, I'll ask. Noble, look, there's more of those pictures on the table. You can have it, anyone can take it. Well, thank you! So this is the big picture. [[Raise the picture and show it to the camera.]] I'm gonna show this camera, too. It's very beautiful. That's a beautiful picture. Next year, we'll put together a puzzle that shows the inside of the beehive and is about a dozen times larger. The small picture shows that when I first thought there wasn't much hope, the situation is the same. People have often actually felt that why it takes so long to do one thing or another and why so many people are needed by the Riigikogu. If we can get this picture together before half past 10:00, we'll understand that the big picture will also help the people we already have here. [[The puzzle assemblers are discussing.]] I'm listening to the discussion here. The hall's already buzzing. Does the hall require results yet? (It is called out of the hall: "Yes! ") Yes, let him still be. Okay. The sky doesn't go in the middle of the house, but it can be. It's gonna be great. While active work is under way, you and I, good people, will be able to deal with what the heart is enjoying. It's a little buzzing, though. Martin has distanced himself in the whole process because Martin knows Father Mart is here. But I don't think you're gonna see what's going on on that table. Corners are up, corners are up. The house is getting ready. Lonely wanderers are still in line on the table. So, and if otherwise there are very different views, then right now it seems to be good.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U9	The media will see what politics looks like on the kitchen side.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U10	Otherwise, the media always just thinks. But politics on the kitchen side looks like, Mart, say it's usually much calmer than the dining room part.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U11	After all, everyone is good friends and acquaintances, only it is necessary to take various ideological positions in public.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U12	Yeah, well, so people don't understand. The reality is that everyone's goal is to make Estonia better. Only these Estonias look like pigs and cuckoos in terms of similarity. But mostly, the plan is to make it better. Dear friends, we can begin to applaud quietly, and this applause can become a great emotion. Anyone want to comment?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U13	More or less we fit into the framework of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U14	Within the framework of the Constitution. Let's do a little dance here and show people. [[Raise the puzzle and show it to the hall.]] Aha! [[Let's hear it.]] Let's all gather around this picture, everyone who did this job, and let's do one together. That's what I'm talking about! And this is a signal to all the beloved people of Estonia that if necessary, everything will be quick, and if it doesn't happen quickly, then it will not be very necessary. Okay, but let's just leave this beautiful picture here right now. Let's put it on the table. It's a very important table. On it, the votes usually count as the president. But here's the question. I already have good gifts. Mart, I'm sure you have a poem and a song.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U15	Right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U16	Maybe while you're here. I'll give you the microphone. I thought I'd get a gift for that alone, but if now there's a long ride as a bonus, don't be a good guy, come on up here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U17	Thank you. However, someone who is not a board member asked to come to the remote. Ladies and gentlemen, the public behind the cameras! Our party's advisor, Aarne Mäe, has put some of his current thoughts on paper in verse form. It can be sung, but I'm still just gonna recite. The song is "The Riigikogu for Santa Claus" [and it must be sung] in the European Union's anthem or "Over the Snow" way. Then let's start at the beginning and finish at the end. "The spruce shines and the room shines, The electricity's cheap today. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Megawatt, that's a ton. Let's put out everything that burns. We shook in the dark. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. Someone with a long needle. There was a storm tomorrow. Make sure you get home soon. But when you meet with reform on your way, Take them to help, too. To make them more effective in dosage You can be glad to give the injection. And if that's not enough, Put on several sips. So that our people wouldn't be in half, You have to choose the shots. Don't leave it to them. Sell Estonia. When you meet the centers on the road, Don't forget them, too. to help them pay their debts, Get in the app with a cab. Don't be afraid of EKRE trolls, a small reminder of: There are no more monsters in the closet. But it's all wrong in the picture. Autoroll, Porto Francol Sunrise makes a long road. When the summer comes again: The flower, where did you get here?" Such a day-old freshness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U18	Mart was talking about the EKRE troll, it would drive downtown from Mustamägi, and it would be helpful. But, you know, this year's good Christmas presents are like this. Just as we had a beehive, there is one jar of honey for every member of the Riigikogu, one such symbolic package, from different corners of Estonia, from islands, East Viru, Southeast and West. It's going to Mardi right now. Here you go! Good elves have already delivered all the good sweets to the factions. All right! Good luck, Mart!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U19	Good luck, Santa! I hope there's enough snow to get to Lapland.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U20	Well, it's nice that Mart can talk to a microphone as well as a microphone without a microphone. But now, nobleman!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U21	Dear Santa Claus! Honourable Riigikogu! I'll be in front of you after the second reading of Aapo Ilves with the second reading. For information, the first reading took place in the Riigikogu on 19 December 2019, the second reading on 17 December 2020. There were a lot of amendments between the first and second readings; I will not repeat them, who is interested, you can look up the verbatim. Anyway, the person standing here wired it up, and I've made a proposal to cancel to continue the second reading today, on 16 December 2021. It is all such a parliamentary formality.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U22	Yeah, yeah, I didn't get it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U23	Right. And there were two amendments that were taken into account in substance. This means that they do not enter the Christmas verse text directly, but they are taken into account and behaved according to them. The first proposal came from the Socialists and was to pay sickness benefit from the first day of illness. None of us want Santa to hang around in kindergartens, homes, schools and businesses, and no one, not even the Reform Party, was against it this time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U24	So he'll just hang out?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U25	Let him just hang around somewhere, yeah. Congratulations! So it's finally gone in somewhere. Let's hear it for you! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U26	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U27	The second amendment came from the Fatherland. This concerns the draft law amending the language law, i.e. the companies that have hanged Santa Claus in Estonia, the intermediary companies must pay 6400 euros instead of 640 euros if they have been wronged against the language law and brought here Santa Claus in a language.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U28	We had an accident when they brought Santa Claus in pudding.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U29	We will apply EUR 6400 in the same way in the case of putism, but there is another clause: in the case of putism, this amount can be raised to 64000. Congratulations, Fatherland, it's been over too!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U30	Let's hear it! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U31	I'm not going to read the Christmas song again because of a lack of time. The third reading will take place on 15 December 2022. This will be the first Christmas song of the Estonian poet that has passed all three readings in the Riigikogu, and next year, I hope, we can send it without delay to the President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U32	Thank you. Let's hope the President doesn't reject it. [[Let's hear it.]] Now, come on, Üllar, see, take it to your friends too. It's a beautiful honeycomb. So don't eat everything. That's great! Now who'd like to come next?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U33	I've got an assistant, Madis is gonna be talking about a nice poem.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U34	Madis always has [one poem], he recognizes it. In the old days, when he went missing when he was a kid, they found him reading a poem somewhere. Be my guest!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U35	Yeah, we've got a reservation in the group. In order to command others, people who have more beautiful clothes will be able to do so. But, dear Santa, the beginning of our sitting today was indescribably special. Maybe you didn't sense it, but most of the people in this hall did. In fact, there were no procedural questions at the beginning of the sitting. It's very amazing. And on this very subject, I had a little poem 15 minutes before the hearing started. Santa's gorgeous, I have a procedure. question: is the Dwarf could we choose the Riigikogu? It's a day's work, isn't it? Busy doing, just working. But we mortals, It's not like elves. Often, as you can see, Let's enjoy our voice here. Hours, hours, lines shall be of a procedural nature. Flag of the Riigikogu's reputation Keeps Kalle Paide high. He's secondd by Urmas, The bride and groom at every wedding. Boring, empty would be ether, If only Peter sat silently. So, dear christmas man, the task before you, To benefit from the Christmas Eve, You elf make a candidate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U36	Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]] All right, but a person with ugly clothes will take a present. Good luck! Be my guest! Go get the remote that you can get from there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U37	Ladies and gentlemen, The social democrats are currently anxious about the really big compensation for the first day of illness, which is a big step. We hope that, at the latest at the last session of the next autumn session, there will also be support for raising the income tax-free minimum to the minimum wage. That would also be a beautiful gesture before the holidays. I have nothing to resist the poetic Christmas performances of Üllar Saaremäe and Madis Milling. It is a great pleasure to have such a creative talent in the hall. But I, too, have been [ready] this morning, walking into kindergarten we repeated the Christmas poem because Santa's next performance will take place at five o'clock in Poska kindergarten, as I understand. Very nice poems have been written. And when we think about the cooperation we've been doing, I'd like to read to you [one verse] of a very beautiful children's book, Signe Ora and Katrin Erlich's book of Uncle Eed. " I'm skipping the first five verses. But this part of the end is something we could all think about. "Eed likes that the world was created this way, That nobody's like anyone. Some are fat, others are tall, Half are boys and half are girls. Some people have a favorite goose roast, the other one only has chocolate. One goes to the theater, one goes to the store, One goes to practice when the other stays in bed. Some people have a favorite carbon black, The other one prefers white. One speaks quietly, the other makes noise, There'll be one when the other leaves. Uncle Eed is happy about this. that the world is still so passionate." Happy holidays!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U38	Happy holidays! I'll take another present from here. Okay. Be my guest! Good luck, you bastards! I think there's more recruits here. Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U39	It is customary for coalition groups to have members of the board not to joke, but to work. But we have ladies and gentlemen who are happy to make jokes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U40	Hello, good Santa! The joke is part of the job, because if you're just talking seriously, it's as good as eating wieners, you eat a lot of those wieners! But you put mustard on it, it's going much better.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U41	Yeah, yeah, I've been watching that there's not a lot of serious talk going on around here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U42	Once again, it depends on who understands and understands. And we don't make it all up, and the voters write us a lot of letters. This time, the voters wrote that they were wondering if Santa would ever arrive because he had to sit in quarantine for a long time. I don't know what country it's been all over, all right? The long beard is also epidemiologically potentially dangerous.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U43	Yeah, well, he's squealing and he's tickling about all sorts of things.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U44	We even know the name of these things, don't we? But luckily, nothing's gonna happen because Santa's got elves. I was told by the voters what the names of the elves were. I didn't remember either, Santa certainly knows them, but so do you: two elves go around, one is Wolt, and the other is Bolt. They're gonna bring everything in nice and non-contact. And there's no need to talk to them because half of them only speak Dwarf. But when someone knocks on Christmas Eve and you see Bolt and Wolt at the door, you'll be happy because they're not just coming, but someone ordered, someone sent, so they're meant for you too. So thank you, Santa, for your good elves! Hello to you, long life, come to us again and again! Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U45	Thank you. Yeah, it's always been that when a person's talk comes from the heart, you don't always have to put a point in it. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] That's right, yeah. There you go. Be my guest! Please! Good luck and strength! Whoa, now we must traditionally ask whether the board of the good Riigikogu has prepared something special. Sure, Hanno and Martin are gonna come and give us this acrobatic number, I know.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U46	Good Santa Claus! We have, of course, such a story that we have had a great deal of agreement on the board lately, but we did not have that consensus today. It got so bad that George took offense and left. But he promised to have a separate session with you after, to take Santa separately. Since we have this law on home and working procedures, which says that if the Bureau cannot agree, the large hall will have to vote. But today we're dropping the vote, and we agreed Martin would sing. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U47	[[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U48	I've had two different performances for Santa since I was three years old. I've been doing them for 40 years or more.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U49	Yeah, I know.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U50	You know, you have them both in your head.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U51	Which one do you choose today?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U52	One is climate warming and the other is the energy crisis. Which one do you want?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U53	It was interesting that educators and teachers always asked when Martin started singing about global warming in 1981, what was it? That's what they asked me. I said it's gonna take time, it's gonna take time, but it's gonna get there sometime. But maybe it's warming.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U54	Good for you. "There in the far-far north, where bears walk on ice, They walk when the ice cracks, the weather in Estonia is getting colder."
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U55	Very pretty! [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Yeah. I remember a boy named Lauri, who once sang a song like this: "It's spring time again, it's melting away from the lakes, and the hockey player doesn't drown. Shaibu, it's a tough man's game. " So you always hear the truth from a child. And I'm always glad that a certain part of you, Martin, has always been a child.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U56	It is.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U57	Yeah, yeah. There's a lot of kids in here, then in the hall. One has more, the other less. Some have many children. But it's okay.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U58	I also wanted to tell Santa that the task of the Board of the Riigikogu is to always close the sessions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U59	That's what I meant, yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U60	Just so you don't get very comfortable here, actually, the final words are we usually say the trial is over. Right now I don't look like Ivar. Ivar is here as an envoy for Võro, he's been speaking Võro for the last few days. But right now, I'm gonna pass on him. But my little child, now quite grown up, usually ends Santa's [salm] with a very simple poem, and it is also appropriate to sum up today's poems that it is an old "Thompson, Cub, Cub, Cub, Poem is over. " That's how the poems are over, so no more of us will sing to you and throw you a spaghetti.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U61	But to the board in the same way, you see, there are honey cans here. This can is from Pärnamägi. Look, Martin!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U62	This is my constituency.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U63	And who's gonna give Jüri?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U64	We're taking him.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U65	He'll get it, I'm sure he'll get it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-16_U66	George, too. Sweet! But I'll tell you again, good people, I have it here. We welcome all the good people and the bees they have worked with. For example, if you now go to your group's rooms, there are honey cans on the table. Where did they come from? From Kõrvemaa, Talumetsa village, then from Põltsamaa, Ubasalu village, Avespea, Tõstamaa, Kehtna rural municipality, Otsa farm, Muhu rural municipality, Forest edge from Tartumaa, Karula, Luhasoo, Paganama county and Emmaste, Viljandi and Võrtsjärve. So the whole of Estonia got together nicely. All right. It's okay, guys. It's okay. After all, difficult or difficult times are such that when ordinary, boring times eventually come, those boring times can be a source of great joy. We'll see you again next year, and then there's been something exciting. To make it even more exciting, you're still taking care of it. So, for strength, health, eat honey and keep the flag high. Good for the end of the year and new! I'm waving from here. Well done! Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]] [[Santa's leaving.]]
