ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-18_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the session of the 5th working week of the 5th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. Members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-18_U2	Hi! On behalf of the Social Democratic Party and Raimond Kaljulaid, I would like to hand over a draft law amending the Health Insurance Act and other laws, which will allow more generous reimbursement of sick days even from May onwards. During the autumn, we discussed long-term compensation arrangements for sick days under the conditions of rapid spread of the virus, and the agreement reached by the government is valid until the end of April: 70% of their pay will be reimbursed from the second day of illness. Our proposal is to extend, as provided for in the Coalition Agreement, even after the payment of 70% of sick days for all persons starting from the second day, so that the employer and then the health insurance fund will initially compensate and do so for an indefinite period. However, [we have another suggestion]: since the virus spreads very quickly, as the Prime Minister has confirmed, to a large extent in the workplace, in order to keep people at home with a positive test result, without fear of loss of income forcing them to break the rules of isolation, a positive test result could result in people receiving sickness benefit from day one and immediately paid by the health insurance fund. This is an additional cost for the country, but it is actually a relief for employers that, in a crisis situation, the country will take on compensation for sick days for people with a positive test result. I think this is a very sensible proposal, and we are now presenting the draft because the end of April is no longer far away. In order for us to be able to arrive at a reasonable pace in the course of the procedure for the reimbursement of sick days, this is a very good time to begin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-18_U3	Thank you. The draft has already been submitted electronically. Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-18_U4	Thank you, President of the sitting. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of six members of the Social Democratic Party, I am discussing an inquiry into the design of tax policy for the Minister of Finance, Keit Pentus-Rosimpus. More specifically, this inquiry concerns the issue of property taxes. This issue has again been topical in recent weeks and property taxes have been referred to, for example, by the Prime Minister's Economic Advisor Ardo Hansson, as a possible additional source of tax revenue. We would like to ask the Minister for Finance, who is very honourable, what analyses have been carried out in the Ministry of Finance on property taxes. Hopefully, the answer to this question will also provide an opportunity to discuss the issue of property taxes in the Chamber of the Riigikogu and to discuss it constructively. The inquiry is signed and submitted digitally, electronically.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-18_U5	Thank you. There is. The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish to transfer drafts and enquiries. On behalf of the Management Board, I have adopted one draft and one inquiry, and the Management Board of the Riigikogu processes them in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Ladies and gentlemen, presence check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-18_U6	88 members of the Riigikogu registered, missing 13.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-18_U7	Let's go to today's agenda. Today we have one item on the agenda, this is the first reading of Bill 312 on the amendment of the Credit Institutions Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. I ask the Secretary of Finance, Keit Pentus-Rosimanud, to serve as a waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-18_U8	Thank you, Mr Vice-President of Parliament. Dear Members and colleagues of the Riigikogu! You have before you a draft law amending the Law on Credit Institutions and other laws in connection with it, which was already initiated by the previous government and is now before Parliament. It is largely a draft law related to European Union law, the transposition of amendments to different directives and regulations into Estonian law. This, in turn, has been part of the response to the financial crisis which led to a complete overhaul of financial services regulation. The main objective of the draft is to enhance bank risk management and to ensure financial stability, in particular by enhancing the credibility and transparency of the banking sector. Certain requirements for banks will also be made more proportionate, especially for smaller banks. In short, the amendments contained in the draft. First, the capital requirements for banks will be clarified. At present, banks are already subject to minimum capital requirements, which need to be kept above all to cover losses on loans issued. The draft also specifies the requirements for internal capital. In the case of internal capital, the bank must take into account the specificities of its activities, risks such as operational risks arising from information technology. In addition, the basis for the calculation of the capital held for resolution purposes shall be specified. To put it simply, banks are currently provided with the resolution buffer necessary to ensure that the bank's losses in the event of a crisis are quickly covered and recapitalised, each bank must also collect the corresponding reserve to fill this buffer, but this draft amends the basis for calculating the buffer, simply because of the practical need. Under the rules currently in force, the respective buffer is determined as a percentage of the total balance sheet total, but the volume of risk-weighted exposure amounts will be taken into account for the purposes of this calculation. The second amendment concerns the approval procedure for bank owners, i.e. holding companies. There's no such detail today. This will allow for more effective supervision of undertakings, where appropriate. Thirdly, the competence of the Financial Supervision Authority will be clarified. For example, in a crisis situation, the Financial Supervision Authority can suspend the bank's contractual obligations vis-à-vis third parties, such as payments. The Financial Supervision Authority's right to suspend the Bank's activities, i.e. to establish a moratorium, is also extended. At the moment, the Financial Supervision Authority can establish a moratorium when payment difficulties arise, but in the future, if this draft is approved, a moratorium can also be established in the event of, for example, a breach of money laundering requirements. Fourthly, the requirements for the activities and remuneration of bank managers will be relaxed. That is, if their performance fee is less than EUR 50000 per year. At the moment, the law sets out exactly what conditions and the extent to which performance fees can be paid to bank managers. In essence, this time will become more flexible for Estonian banks in the future. It also provides for the possibility that the bank manager can carry out academic work when managing the bank simultaneously or in parallel, if that is of interest. The fifth amendment is that the initial capital requirement is currently EUR 5 million when a bank is set up, but according to the draft proposal, if the draft law enters into force in Estonia, the bank could also be set up with an initial capital of EUR 1 million. The designers have considered it important that this change also provides an opportunity for the emergence of fintech banks in Estonia, for example. However, an important nuance is that small banks cannot provide investment services and the Financial Supervision Authority can decide whether or not such a bank may or may not establish branches in other countries to mitigate risks. Also, as volumes increase, the Financial Supervision Authority has the possibility and right to require such a bank to have additional capital. But in conclusion, yes, the drafts have initially been presented by the drafts that this change could have a positive impact on competition in banking. Sixthly, the National Audit Office will have the right to audit the activities of the Financial Supervision Authority, this amendment is not related to the transposition of directives, but the right to audit the Financial Supervision Authority would be limited. The Economic Audit Office, which the National Audit Office may carry out over the Financial Supervision Authority, does not mean that the National Audit Office will take up internal financial supervision or intervene in any way in the exercise of financial supervision. The substantive activities of the Financial Supervision Authority will, of course, remain independent. Thank you. I'd be happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-18_U9	Thank you. You really do have questions. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-18_U10	Thank you. I hope you can hear me. I haven't used that format before. Madam Minister, would you personally hand over your deposits to an institution that has failed to put together more than EUR 1 million of equity capital? The development of Estonian banking and financial markets has always been one-way, increasing the capital base and credibility. This step is in the other direction. Tell me if you would trust such banks, given that small financial institutions have been deceiving their depositors.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-18_U11	Thank you. In the context of this draft, I would refrain from ex ante assessments of the fact that a bank with lower initial capital is in any case less reliable. I think, like any other depositor, I'd consider all the risks. But yes, such very general assessments I would rather not give in the framework of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-18_U12	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-18_U13	Good manager! Good minister! I have a question. We are quite familiar with this bill. It's prepared during your predecessor, Martin Helme, and now you're reporting it. But I'm not aware of how much in the meantime, after a change of power, this bill has been amended. If it hasn't been changed, I don't have any questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-18_U14	Thank you. This draft has not been amended. It's in the form he was approved by the previous government. And since it is largely about transposing European Union rules, there have been no changes here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-18_U15	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-18_U16	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Dear Minister, I ask you about the reform of the second pillar of pension in Estonia. After we discussed [the draft] in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, for example, the results of the year LHV emerged in the meantime. The payout of the pension pillar, as has become apparent, has a significant impact on the financial performance of the banks and also has an impact on the bank's capital. Does this draft relate in any way to the impact of the reform of the second pension pillar and the disbursements that banks have to make to those who want to leave the pension pillar? Does this have any effect on the banks' capital situation? Does this bill affect this subject in any way?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-18_U17	Thank you for your question. We cannot say that this is directly related to the amendment of the second pillar or that there is a direct parallel to this draft. But if I were to think about what the link might be found here, I still think that changing the basis for the calculation of the capital holding calculation for the same resolution might be [indirectly], because the calculation of this calculation will actually make the calculation of the required reserve more flexible, right? Indeed, in the past, the requirement had to be calculated on the basis of the total balance sheet and could have been difficult for a bank to predict in certain circumstances. It is very difficult for banks to directly influence how people hold their deposits or when and how much money they take out. Indeed, from now on, the buffer requirement will still be calculated on the basis of the volume of risk-weighted exposure amounts. That kind of indirect connection could be here. But in other respects, yes, [this bill] is not directly related to the change in the second pillar for banks.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-18_U18	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-18_U19	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. I can tell you that most clients in credit institutions are not familiar with this law. That's why I'm asking you to explain in a concrete, clear and simple way what will change for customers if we adopt this law here sometime.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-18_U20	Thank you. Nothing changes directly for customers under this bill. This change may be linked to the fact that all the amendments introduced at the level of these directives and the European Union aim to increase confidence in the banking sector. And, of course, I think that for customers, the fact that the banking system and banks are reliable is a positive change. But nothing changes for customers on a daily level.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-18_U21	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-18_U22	Good manager! Good minister! It really has something to do with the European Union's banking package and its 'transposition', but I would like you to open up a little bit of the background. A new member of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank has somehow tried to question the adequacy of the European Union's banking package, asking you if you would trust your money specifically to a bank with only 1 million euros. This is also a follow-up question to the question of Urve Tiidus. What's the contradiction here? What's the background? Is this just a bully or is there different views of Eesti Pank and the Ministry of Finance or within the party? Open up some cards, that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-18_U23	Thank you. That's definitely not picking on you. I think that it is very important that this specific amendment also be thoroughly considered in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and among Members of Parliament that the reduction of the initial capital requirement from 5 million to 1 million is appropriate and that the risks referred to in the question referred to by Jürgen Ligi, a member of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, have been adequately grounded. I think that this is something that certainly needs to be considered in the debate and discussion of this draft in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. In this first debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, this particular question also arose on the right number of times: is the objective of increasing competition in the banking market by mitigating the initial capital requirement outweighing the potential risks? I believe that this is something that MEPs pay close attention to during the procedure. This certainly is not a pointless difference of opinion or exactly what you mentioned, spiteful, but a serious decision that must be considered.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-18_U24	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-18_U25	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, Such drafts are usually also negotiated with the social partners and with the relevant legal entities and their representative organisations. I have a question as to what kind of feedback the banks themselves have on this and whether there are any hidden points inside which the banks have put here and which will perhaps come as a surprise afterwards. What has been the feedback from the banks, and is there anything else that could be pointed out here?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-18_U26	Thank you. There's nothing hidden here. The explanatory memorandum to this draft is 108 pages, very thorough, very detailed. Everyone has a chance to see all the details. And, as has been said a few times, the main content of this draft is the transposition into Estonian law of the amendments made to European Union law. In fact, it has to be said that the deadline for transposition of these directives has already expired and most of the amendments were due at the end of the previous year. It is precisely because the consultations with the parties and the involvement were thorough that we have only now reached the point of defending this draft before Parliament. All the provisions of the Directives that need to be transposed are sometimes beautiful technical and detailed. As a result, all this preparation has been a substantial work. This draft was really submitted to Eesti Pank, the NGO FinanceEstonia, the Estonian Banking Association and all investment firms for coordination and opinion. Comments on the draft were received from Eesti Pank, the Banking Association and the Financial Supervision Authority and, in general, these comments have been taken into account in this draft. Annex 3 to the explanatory memorandum gives a pretty good overview of this. So, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. All the changes are very thoroughly reproduced in the explanatory memorandum. I strongly recommend that all interested parties read the explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-18_U27	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-18_U28	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. Thank you for this good overview of such a large and technical package. I ask about the part that concerns not the transposition of directives, but the rights granted to the National Audit Office to evaluate the activities of the Financial Supervision Authority and to carry out economic control. Where did this idea come from, and what are the views of the Financial Supervision Authority and the National Audit Office? Is this a change in which the parties concerned agree that it is necessary and will help to meet the objectives that are desired?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-18_U29	Thank you. To the point where this proposal or idea originally comes from, I honestly owe the answer. It has been a long debate about the fact that the Financial Supervision Authority should be able to control the controller in the same way, isn't it? This particular solution, which has been reached, has been very thoroughly discussed with both the Financial Supervision Authority and the National Audit Office in a way that makes it the best and most accurate. It has, of course, been approved by both the Financial Supervision Authority and the National Audit Office. And I would stress once more that the National Audit Office will have the opportunity and right to audit or control to a limited extent. It will be able to monitor the effectiveness of the management of the Financial Supervision Authority in the future, but will not be able to assess individual decisions taken by the Financial Supervision Authority. The National Audit Office will not have this right. Perhaps once again: The National Audit Office itself does not start to carry out state financial supervision or intervene in any way in the exercise of financial supervision. It has been, yes, such a thorough preparation process and I think the solution found is best.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-18_U30	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-18_U31	Thank you. Dear Minister, I'll ask you about the comments or the coordination table. Here Eesti Pank has given its position and they have asked for the same capital requirement from 5 million to 1 million. They ask what the problem will be solved, and they feel that it does not need to be reduced. Consequently, I also have a question: this did not come out quite clearly in the debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Does the Ministry of Finance have any evidence that in practice some of the founders of the fintech bank have problems that the capital is not being raised? This is another area, but the developers of a nuclear reactor in the Funderbeam environment got a million euros in one hour. Does the Ministry of Finance have any information that some of the founders of the fintech bank have problems meeting the current initial capital of 5 million? Is there a problem in practice?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-18_U32	Thank you. That's a clear question. I would probably be wrong if I now reached general conclusions here on all the history of recent years, or would say an immediate answer. I think that this is one of the issues where I am happy to take this opportunity to review the known or possible problems you are referring to and then send you a written reply on this. Indeed, as the debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs also continues on this particular provision, I think it is a good thing that it exists. I just don't have the data on me right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-18_U33	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-18_U34	Thank you, good Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Thank you for your previous answer and I apologise for not asking directly about this draft. Since this package of changes should actually increase the resilience of the banking sector in times of stress or crisis and improve supervisory opportunities, including requirements for credit institutions, also linked to the risks taken, I would look at this issue more broadly and ask for the following. Does the Ministry of Finance intend to apply a similar risk-based approach or a package of changes to ensure better coping in crisis situations to, for example, savings and loan cooperatives or some other financing platforms where private individuals actually invest, the risks they take are overall high and affect their livelihood? Is there also a plan to leave the banking sector and to adopt such a risk-based approach there?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-18_U35	Thank you. First of all, we want to take over the changes coming from the European Union. Like I said, we're a little late for that. The risk analysis, and the side you referred to in your question, must be dealt with on a daily and ongoing basis. At the moment, we are focusing on making sure that the changes that have been made at European Union level can also be incorporated into our legislation. The assessment of risks and its necessity are, of course, what we mean on a daily basis. I would not mention any concrete initiatives at the moment, which would be proposed here in the near future, but, of course, if there is a need, then there must be a response.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-18_U36	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-18_U37	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-18_U38	And now I ask Aivar Sõerdi, member of the Monetary Affairs Committee, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-18_U39	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance discussed this draft at its meeting on 9 February. At this meeting, this draft was presented by the Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus and Thomas Honourable and Advisor Helen Korju-Kuul, Head of the Financial Markets Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance. I don't think there's a need to go over the contents of the draft, the Minister has already explained it. He also explained this in the Commission. Indeed, this is a transposition of EU financial legislation. These include two directives, the Bank Capital Requirements Directive and the Recovery and Resolution Directive, and two regulations, the Bank Capital Requirements Regulation, as amended, and the Resolution Mechanism and Resolution Fund Regulation. I will give an overview of what we discussed in the Commission and of what aspects we dealt with. The Minister also made a comprehensive overview of the objectives and content of the draft within the Commission. Indeed, the objectives of this draft are to ensure and enhance financial stability, to ensure and increase the credibility and transparency of the banking sector and to ensure banks' resilience in stress and crisis situations, as well as to establish more proportionate requirements for credit institutions compared to the current situation and to link these requirements more closely to the risks taken by the credit institution. A pretty important part of these amendments to the directive also concerns the requirements for the remuneration of bank managers. The Commission was asked to explain why the capital requirements of banks are being lowered and asked to introduce the right of the National Audit Office to assess the activities of the Financial Supervision Authority. We also addressed both issues in this Chamber today. But indeed, as the Minister emphasised, neither of these changes comes from the directives. Member States have discretion in setting capital requirements. So far, there has been an initial capital requirement of EUR 5 million and the desire to reduce it has come from an interest in increasing competition. Mr Honourable added that this amendment would encourage the possibility of setting up fintech banks, which could result in more and less capital. At the same time, if the bank will continue to grow, the bank will still have to increase its equity capital. Such small banks must not provide investment services. And if they want to provide services across borders in another country, such as the establishment of a branch, the Financial Supervision Authority can limit this activity if it sees it as too risky. However, as regards the additional rights granted to the National Audit Office, they are indirectly linked to European Union law. Here reference was made to the comments made by the European Court of Auditors in the direction of the Member States, according to which the National Audit Offices of the Member States could look at what local financial supervision authorities are dealing with and how effective their activities are. But yes, as the Minister emphasised, by increasing the competence of the National Audit Office, the National Audit Office is not granted the right to assess individual decisions made by the Financial Supervision Authority regarding banks, investment companies and other objects. The speaker asked why this difference is due to the fact that the capital buffer previously required of credit institutions was fixed as a percentage of the liabilities, but is now based on the exposure. What is the essence of this difference, and what is the reason for this amendment to the directive and why? Mr Honourable replied that during the last financial crisis, many countries came to rescue banks, but now they want to avoid it and that is what the banks need to form resolution buffers for. The amendment to the Directive also changes the calculation methodology, distinguishing between large and small banks. The limit is EUR 15 billion, which is the reference size to determine whether the bank is large or small. Our Estonian banks are small in the European context. It was before that a rigid and relatively uniform calculation would be made, based on the total amount of the bank's liabilities and calculated by a corresponding percentage, but the risks associated with the assets will be taken into account in the future. As a result, banks with more risky assets in the portfolio have to hold a larger buffer. Aivar Kokk asked about savings and loan cooperatives, which offer services similar to those of banks, but there is less risk management for them. Mr Honourable said that the activities of savings and loan cooperatives are not regulated within the framework of this draft, but the Ministry of Finance has a separate draft in place, which also plans to amend the regulations on savings and loan cooperatives. Jürgen Ligi asked whether the buffer requirement for banks would be stricter in the future and whether the risks had been mitigated. Mr Honourable replied that, in parallel with the current draft, the regulation directly applicable to the European Union would also apply to banks, and that there would be some additional requirements concerning the liquidity of banks. The Regulation applies directly and that is where the requirements become more stringent. Ivi Eenmaa wondered whether lobby groups had a role to play in drafting the draft. It referred to the same reduction in the minimum capital requirement. Thomas Honourable explained that such a proposal really came from the NGO Finance Estonia, which brings together smaller banks as well as investment companies and fund managers. The proposal to lower the capital requirement was also due to the fact that this possibility exists in Lithuania, for example. The speaker also asked about a bond-related change. In fact, the draft also raises the nominal value. Mr Honourable explained that this regulation also follows from the directive, but that a distinction must be made between the various bonds in the future. The bill is based on riskier bonds that can be included in the bank's mandatory risk buffer. If something happens to the bank, the Financial Supervision Authority, which is going to restructure the bank, can decide whether or not investors in riskier bonds with a high nominal value will lose money. That depends on how bad the bank is. However, banks also have the possibility to issue less risky bonds. Finally, Riina Sikkut asked whether anything would change in the day-to-day activities of Estonian banks after the implementation of the bill. The Minister explained that in particular risk accounting methodologies would change. Resolution buffers are being implemented in the transposition of the Directive and will result in better preparedness for potential crises. As a result of the change, small banks will have to hold a smaller buffer. For the sake of greater transparency and reliability, a requirement for the approval of owner companies with significant participation in credit institutions will be introduced and banks will also be obliged to establish uniform remuneration principles for their managers. This was a brief overview of the debate in the Commission. The Committee on Monetary Affairs took the following consensual decisions: Firstly, to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by today, 18 February. Secondly, the Commission proposed to close the first reading. Thirdly, to appoint a rapporteur here, Mr Aivar Sõerd, Member of the Commission. And fourthly, it is proposed that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 4 p.m. on 5 March. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-18_U40	Thank you. You have questions too. Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-18_U41	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! How many credit institutions are left now, who are affected by this draft? And did the Commission also discuss the state and capitalisation of Estonian banks at all times? I ask this primarily because, at least among the people, there is such a myth that most credit institutions are actually foreign banks. How many other banks based on Estonian capital are there besides LHV? What's the broader picture? Are the interests of foreign banks more at stake here, or are there capital-based credit institutions in Estonia? Can you give me a heads-up on this? Was that on the committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-18_U42	That was not exactly the question in the Commission. But indeed, this draft and these amendments to the directives concern commercial banks operating in Estonia. Now, if I'm talking about my memory, we should have four banks of systemic importance: Swedbank, SEB, LHV and Luminor. In addition, there are even smaller banks: Coop Bank, Bigbank. These commercial banks operating in Estonia are within the scope of this draft and these directives. But, as I understand it, perhaps this bill is more relevant to banks of systemic importance, i.e. larger banks, SEBs, Swedbanks, Luminor and LHVs, where the risks are higher, the volume of debt liabilities are higher, the risk calculation is more diversified. The volumes are larger and changes in accounting principles resulting from these changes in the directives may have a greater financial impact on the calculation of risk buffers for these banks. In this explanatory memorandum, the impact was highlighted in the example of Swedbank; these effects are not very significant. In particular, it still concerns the direction taken by the same banking package in the European Union in order to make the activities of banks, to make capital accounts more transparent and to ensure that banks are better prepared for possible crises. As regards the preparedness of Estonian banks and their security against buffers and reserves, compared to other countries, the capital buffers of our banks are actually quite good, as well as coping with stress tests. As far as foreign owners are concerned, the majority of the Estonian banking market really belongs to Scandinavian owners. But I think it will provide additional certainty, perhaps also giving stability to our local banking system, the fact that the parent companies of our larger banks are strong Scandinavian banks. This could, of course, affect us from there if, for example, these Scandinavian owners themselves find themselves in difficulties, for example, when the situation on the Swedish banking market, the housing market deteriorates and the parent banks start pulling capital out of this area. But these are all hypothetical risks. In fact, compared to the rest of Europe, the parent companies of Estonian banks are still very strong, large and well-capitalised banks.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-18_U43	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation by the political groups. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 312. The first reading is closed and I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 5 March at 4 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda is exhausted and the session is closed. Thank you. See you in the next sitting!
