ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the Monday session of the 14th working week of the V plenary session. Now is the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. Urmas Reinsalu, do you have a bill or an inquiry? Please, the chair is yours!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U2	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of Tarmo Kruusimäe, Helir-Valdor Seeder, Raivo Tamme, Sven Sester and myself, I will hand over an inquiry to Prime Minister Kaja Kallas regarding the information published in the press, according to which yesterday, on 9 May, the conscripts of a certain unit of the Defence Forces were required to wear civilian clothes instead of uniforms, as movement in the form of the Defence Forces may be misinterpreted. Our questions concern who imposed a restriction on wearing the form of the Defence Forces in connection with the gathering around the Bronze Soldier on 9 May. Is it true that this restriction was imposed and what is meant by the malicious interpretation of wearing the form of the Estonian Defence Forces? This will certainly have an effect in a situation where a decision was taken not to use the form of the Defence Forces as a symbol of the withdrawal of the Republic of Estonia, and this certainly cannot be accepted. According to the National Defence Act, the Prime Minister is, in a broad sense, the organiser of and responsible for the management of the Defence Forces. We hope that the Prime Minister will clarify without delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U3	Now the representative of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching three draft laws today. First, the draft veterinary law. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Rural Affairs in the proceedings of the draft law. Secondly, the draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Mauritius on the prevention of double taxation and on the prevention of tax evasion and fraud and the accompanying protocol. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance. Thirdly, the draft law approving amendments to the Convention on International Carriage by Rail and its Annexes. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure in the proceedings of the draft law. All three draft laws have been transmitted electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U5	On behalf of the Bureau, I have adopted three drafts and one inquiry and, of course, we will decide on their further processing in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Dear members of the Riigikogu, we are now conducting a presence check. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U6	91 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present. Let's go to the adoption of this week's agenda. I shall put to the vote the adoption of the agenda for the 14th working week of the V session. Mr Ossinovski has a procedural question. Please, Mr. Ossinovski! Yes, please! [[No sound.]] Yeah, Evgeny! We're listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U7	[[Remote connection]] Any word from me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U8	Yeah, a little bit. Now, please, try talking again! [[No sound.]] Evgeni's procedural question remained. The system shows that he is registered as present and connected to the information system of the Riigikogu. Let's try to get back in touch. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U9	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! I have a question about the Bill 329 initiated by the Social Democrats in February. According to the Home and Working Procedures Act, it had to be at first reading a long time ago, but unfortunately the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has not even discussed it. Does the board know anything about the reasons? If you don't, would you be willing to explain these reasons?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U10	Thank you for your question. This issue is indeed for the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and I believe that the representatives of the Social Democrats in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs can ask the Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs nicely. Mart Helme has a procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U11	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I have a question about today's agenda. Is it correct that we are going to make a final vote, a government vote of confidence, in a situation where this bill has not been assessed by the Chancellor of Justice or the Supreme Court? According to our assessment, and I think that not only in our assessment, but in the opinion of many lawyers and healthy people, this item is clearly in conflict with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U12	Thank you. Today, the procedure for this bill is entirely correct. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U13	Thank you. Did I understand correctly from your reply to Mr Ossinovski that the Board of the Riigikogu does not have the competence to comply with and monitor the Law on Home and Working Procedures, whether the committees are complying with it? Is it a matter for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to decide whether or not to comply with this law and so it will remain, and you are not interested in it in the Bureau?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U14	Thank you. I'm sure the board would be interested if such a signal were received. The question now is whether or not the Commission has discussed it. You can still ask the chairman of the committee. Members of the Commission shall discuss when they have one or more items on the Commission and when they shall bring that item to the Grand Chamber. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U15	Thank you. We just received this information from Evgeny Ossinovski. We are aware of this [problem], and the board should be very concerned that we are not complying with the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U16	Thank you for this question, but once again: it is not a procedural question in the sense that it is not about the procedure for conducting a sitting and it is not about the adoption of the agenda before us. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U17	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I cannot agree with you that this does not concern this point. This bill should have been on the agenda several weeks ago and since it has not been on the agenda in the last two weeks, it should have been on this agenda today, in accordance with § 97 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures. The Commission has not discussed this issue and, for some reason, the chairman of the committee has not put this item on the agenda. The question now is what to do in such a situation, so that the rights of members of the Riigikogu are guaranteed. Would the Bureau take this matter up and encourage the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to put this draft on the agenda?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U18	Thank you. The Bureau would draw the attention of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to the need for all committees to respect the deadlines set for the drafts. Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U19	Thank you! It was good to hear that the Committee on Legal Affairs had to look at this, and as a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, I am, but I want to know the legal basis. The agenda will be drawn up from those drafts that have already been received by you, and the attitude that if any drafts stand anywhere, they will be. Like in Stalin's time that there is no human, no problem with the bill, no problem. Or are you still worried that some sort of bill will be handed over to you or your co-workers here, and that's why your interest ends?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U20	Thank you. Just as any chairman of the committee has a duty to ensure that deadlines are respected, so the Riigikogu Board will certainly monitor this. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U21	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. You answered Mart Helme's procedural question that the item on the agenda today is correct. How can you say this in a situation where neither the agenda for today nor the agenda for this week have yet been adopted?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U22	Thank you. We'll go to that as soon as we finish the procedural questions. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U23	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President-in-Office. My procedural question is as follows: why today's item is 51 votes, not 68 or 76 votes?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U24	Thank you. This comes from the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U25	Draft 329 talks about changing our citizenship policy. I do not think I support this initiative in essence, but it is also impossible for me to oppose, in form, that if one political force has presented it in this Chamber and we have the right to deal with it within seven weeks, it will be violated [the law]. Could the reason be that the government did not express its opinion on the draft easing on citizenship policy, but gave up its opinion on a matter of principle and, therefore, the government coalition does not dare to bring this draft into action in due course? There have also been cases in the past where no draft laws have been introduced within seven weeks [the Chamber], but then it has been based on the practice of Parliament that all political forces in Parliament, above all the initiators, have accepted it for some procedural or other reason. The question at the moment is that I think that the representatives of the Socialists should clearly state whether they want to keep this draft longer, or whether they want it to be done within the time required by law, within seven weeks...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U26	Is there a question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U27	I think I have a proposal to the President to ask the Chairman of the Social Democratic Party Group so that we can unravel this sweater, because it is a very dangerous precedent. If the seven-week rule is being broken, it can become a very voluntaristic policy in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U28	It wasn't a procedural question. Let's keep going. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U29	[[Remote connection]] Yeah, I still think I have a procedural question. Let us recall the debate on the marriage referendum during the previous government. The Chancellor of Justice then knew and knew the President and all other figures that this was contrary to the Constitution, even though no actual expertise had been carried out. Now you know that today's item is not against the Constitution. I am saying that this is contrary to the Constitution, and pushing through with this roller today will lead to this dispute and to a very conflict between the observance of our constitution and the exercise of some kind of political will.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U30	Thank you. It wasn't a procedural question, it was an opinion. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U31	Thank you, good vice chairman. I want legal clarity. What amounts of money are we talking about? If we are discussing the impact of the draft, then if the impact of the draft poll was perhaps 400,000, then we had to make sure that we had the Chancellor of Justice's assessment. At present these amounts are considerably higher in the case of draft Decision 353. Let me get this straight. Now, in the case of the rest of the larger sums, there is no need to look at whether they are compatible with the Constitution. We all share EUR 10,000 very accurately, but if there is talk of millions, then everything is kosher.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U32	You can ask the bill waitress. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U33	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. To my previous question, you answered that this is due to the rules of procedure and the rules of procedure, so that only 51 votes are required in our vote today. However, I am saying that we are voting today on a draft decision which is essentially constitutional. So I am still asking: why is today's vote not provided for as 68 or 76 votes demanding?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U34	Thank you. The Constitution lists which laws are the laws of 51 votes. Siim Pohlak!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U35	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Once again, who is responsible for putting this thing on this agenda so quickly? As Mart Helme pointed out earlier, the Chancellor of Justice has not made an assessment; the Supreme Court has not issued an opinion. Who is responsible, then, if there is any trouble with this huge common property, if some countries leave the Union, or if something else happens? We also have this without proper consideration at national level. As a member of the coalition, I ask you: will the Prime Minister take political responsibility and resign or will the Minister of Finance do so? Why do we have to hurry up with this thing? Why is it rushed into today's agenda and still as a vote of confidence?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U36	Thank you. You can also ask this question to a representative of the government. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U37	Thank you, Mr President. I have a question about the fact that we, along with Kert Kingo, submitted an inquiry last week to the Minister of the Interior, Kristian Jaan. We asked about double citizenship. The reason was that the Riigikogu has such a member of the Reform Party as the esteemed Valdo Randpere, who has Estonian citizenship and also has Swedish citizenship. Now, however, the Riigikogu has returned this [inquiry] and said that it is not clear from the inquiry which task or obligation has been assigned to it by law has not been complied with by the Minister of the Interior. Is there now a situation where the Minister of the Interior does not have to answer [an inquiry] that one of the members of the coalition is in some doubt about the issue of national security?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U38	Thank you. This was not a procedural question about our agenda today, and it was not a procedural question about the approval of our agenda today, which we are currently discussing. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U39	Thank you. I do think that we need to be clear about this 51 or 68 or 76 vote, because if we adopt a draft decision and it goes against the Constitution, then we have taken a decision that is not valid from the outset. If we were to discuss, for example, the border agreement here, we would all understand that it has the same threshold for votes as if we were dealing with a constitutional amendment, because the current line is running at the place of constitution, and we cannot shift it with some lower number of votes, which is that ratification of the foreign treaty does not require a higher level of vote. If we have taxes and budget in accordance with the Constitution of the Riigikogu's exclusive competence and we take the decision that taxes and budgets are no longer the exclusive competence of the Riigikogu, we are actually working here today, through the draft decision, to amend the Constitution and this is not legal action.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U40	Thank you. This is the decision of the grand hall of the Riigikogu, which is supported by several votes at the end of this bill. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U41	[[Remote connection]] In your reply, you told me that the Constitution contains a request for today's vote. I do not know that there is a paragraph in the Constitution that describes the requirements for voting in the Riigikogu. Why don't you tell me which section of the Constitution states that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U42	I'm about to do the Constitution, but I think it should be § 104 and, more specifically, paragraph 15. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U43	Thank you, good vice chairman. Did I get it right that if we want to get an answer from the Bureau before implementing this agenda, we will have an hour and 42 minutes to ask these procedural questions until the new person who answers the remote control, rather than saying that you will receive answers from the drafter?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U44	It wasn't a procedural question. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U45	[[Remote connection]] In essence, all these questions are procedural questions, because I dare say, Mr President-in-Office, that you are currently grossly violating domestic and operational procedures. You're essentially rolling over our constitution. I would like to remind you that our northern neighbour, Finland, who is always taking the lead, has decided very clearly in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that this same issue of the Re-Fund needs a two-thirds majority because it transfers certain decision-making processes to the European Commission. This is a question that can be very clearly contrary to the Finnish Constitution, and in our case too, it is very clearly contrary to our constitution. It is therefore my proposal to exclude today's item from the week's work programme and to return to the Chamber with this matter after the evaluation of the Chancellor of Justice and the Supreme Court has been obtained and decided in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs how large a majority it needs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U46	Thank you. I would like to draw attention once again to the provisions of the Constitution. Paragraph 104 of the Constitution states what are the drafts requiring a majority of the composition, and paragraph 15 states that [these include] laws relating to foreign and domestic loans and the property obligations of the State. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U47	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. You have answered several procedural questions so far that these are not procedural questions. Consequently, I would like to ask which legislation will give rise to your competence to assess the nature of procedural issues and whether your assessments are primarily based on the content, form or subject of the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U48	Thank you. Paragraph 74 (2) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu states that questions can be asked about the procedure for conducting a hearing. Mr. Korobenik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U49	Thank you, Mr President. For a quarter of an hour, there has been a debate here on how many votes are needed for the adoption of the law on today's agenda. I have a procedural question: how does this relate to the adoption of the agenda? If, after all, it turns out that the number of votes was insufficient, then we do have specific mechanisms in place to deal with the situation even after the adoption of this law. Why are we discussing this issue now, before the agenda is adopted?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U50	Thank you. It is very difficult for the President to see what procedural question anyone would like to ask. If the question has already been asked, I will react according to whether [the question] was procedural or not. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U51	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I repeat my proposal to remove this item from today's agenda and this week's agenda. Your explanation that the loan decision will be made by the President-in-Office of the Riigikogu, Estonia will not take the loan, the European Commission will take the loan. It's basically a different subject. This is not our decision to borrow, it is the decision of the European Commission. Our decision is whether we agree that the European Commission will or do not accept a loan instead of the Government of the Republic of Estonia. This is contrary to the Constitution if we are willing to delegate this right with only 51 votes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U52	Thank you for your question. Once again: how many members of the Riigikogu decide to support this bill or not, we do not know at the moment. To this end, we should discuss this agenda and then the members of the Riigikogu will be able to shape their opinion after the presentation. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U53	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I will ask you about today's item on the agenda. Here the number of votes for the debate has been, and you replied that this was decided by the Riigikogu, which is supported by several votes. Am I to understand that the number of votes required is flexible and depends on the result? If there's more votes, then it's going to be more votes, and if there's fewer votes, we'll settle for less?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U54	This bill must be supported by at least 51 members of the Riigikogu. Andrei Korobenik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U55	For a change, the mid-group does not agree to remove this item from the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U56	Got it. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U57	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. You refer here to § 104 (15) of the Constitution of Estonia, which says that the Riigikogu will establish laws relating to foreign and internal loans and the property obligations of the state. In fact, we are not dealing with the law, we are dealing with a decision, and there is a very important difference. The Constitution does not give the Riigikogu the opportunity to approve any decisions on borrowing, but rather laws relating to property obligations, and therefore the Riigikogu cannot discuss this point and it should definitely be removed from today's agenda and from the whole agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U58	Thank you. Indeed, when looking at ordinary draft decisions, they require a simple majority of votes. However, since financial issues are at stake here and this is an external agreement, there is indeed a 51 vote requirement. Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U59	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I will continue, however, from where who is responsible and ask that there be a sign of how it came to us in a vote of confidence. Did the government make that decision? Were they consensual? Whose signature is down there? I'd like to hear some names.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U60	Thank you. The Government of the Republic made this decision on Thursday and, as far as I know, the decision was consensual. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U61	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! We want to build a tunnel under the Gulf of Finland. If the European recovery package is common and if the legislator on the northern shore of the Gulf of Finland needs the approval of two thirds of MEPs, but on the south bank, for those who want to be connected to Finland through the tunnel, 51 votes are enough, how does that add up? Are the Finns stupid, speaking in rural language, and they don't understand? And we understand that this is nothing that we are discussing today?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U62	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the national constitutions in the European Union are certainly different. It is up to us that we need a majority in the composition for this. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Today you have referred repeatedly to § 104 of the Constitution. It is also noted here that the procedure for the adoption of laws is laid down in the Riigikogu's Law on Home and Rules of Procedure. I think there is no dispute that the item on today's agenda is a decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic. I have absolutely no doubt that you do not know the difference between a decision and a law, so in my opinion this section of the Constitution to which you refer does not correlate with the draft that we want to deal with now, because it is a decision, not a law governed by § 104 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U64	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention once again to the need for a simple majority for the adoption of the ordinary draft decision. So if you want a debate on whether the call for votes should be reduced, I think that this is not appropriate in this case, because the earlier practice of the Riigikogu provides that the majority of the composition is spoken of in such decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, if anyone else has a procedural question, press the right button, not the word[reception button]. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U65	[[Remote connection]] Thank you! I also looked at this section of the Constitution. It says "voice," but it leaves a lot of room for interpretation. Can we decide in this way that the word that has the ugliest singing voice will prevail?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U66	Your decision is a matter of your conscience. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U67	Thank you, Mr President. I still don't think you answered my question. I asked how the decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic can be linked to § 104 of the Constitution, which provides for the adoption of laws in the Riigikogu. The law and the decision, you should know very well, are different concepts.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U68	Yes, I understand this very well, and even the school learned that the laws and decisions are different, but since the foreign treaties we deal with as decisions of the Riigikogu, we interpret the decision we accept here also in accordance with § 104 of the Constitution [and we need] a majority of the composition. Otherwise, we would rely on a simple majority of votes. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U69	[[Remote connection]] I am just sighing hard, because it is quite clear that the Presidency is abusing its position, dealing with demagoguery, dealing with different interpretations of different laws in order to push its will through when the agenda is approved. That is why I am also saying that we believe that we are dealing with a constitutional amendment and that it requires at least a two-thirds majority, or 68 votes. If the coalition decides to push it through this way now, it must take into account that we are challenging the adoption of this decision at all levels of the court.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U70	Got it. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U71	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President-in-Office. If we approve this recovery facility, it will introduce pan-European taxes. Our constitution states quite clearly that taxes are only imposed by Estonia. There is no double-thinking here, and the treaties of the European Union also rule out all forms of joint borrowing. Paragraph 113 of our Constitution states that state taxes, charges, levies, etc. are laid down by law. Now you want these pan-European taxes on packaging and on coal, and whatever else is invented to take some kind of decision. This is quite clearly an unconstitutional act. You have to adopt a law to that end. So this makes it impossible to discuss this matter here in the Riigikogu today and it should be removed from the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U72	Ladies and gentlemen, I would advise you to ask the rapporteur for substantive questions, but for the time being, to ask procedural questions about the procedure for conducting the sitting so that we can go to the adoption of the agenda and then to the substantive procedure of the draft. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U73	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Since this draft decision 353 is now being put on the agenda and it has been strongly pressed here, I would still like to know whether the Chancellor of Justice has been asked to give an opinion on this, or is it simply being pressed here?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U74	Thank you. The draft decision of the Riigikogu has been before the Riigikogu and has passed the first reading here. We are now at second reading and the Government of the Republic wanted to link it to a matter of trust. That is why it is on the agenda today. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U75	[[Remote connection]] Thank you! I'm looking and I don't understand the reference. [[Shows the Constitution.]] We are not paying any attention to what is the substance of the draft. It's not in the title. For some reason, I have the impression that at this point in time, the President of the sitting is taking advantage of his authority. That is influencing authority: if the ambassadors say that this is contrary to the Constitution, he simply says that it is not. What else do you call this kind of power trade? I don't remember.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U76	The President has never taken any position on this draft, but has wished to go to the adoption of the agenda and the discussion of the draft so that the rapporteur can answer all your substantive questions. Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U77	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. As has already been pointed out here on some occasions, the Republic of Finland has made an addition to its Constitution in 2011, according to which, if the draft concerns the transfer of competence to the European Union, to an international organisation or to an international institution, Parliament can accept this decision if it is supported by at least two thirds of the Members of Parliament. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs of the Finnish Parliament decided that this was such an important draft. However, the Estonian Government has gone entirely the opposite way to link this draft to a vote of confidence, trying to take the opportunity to propose improvements from the representatives of the people when deciding on this crucial issue. I do not want to overdramatize, but do you not feel that this situation is similar to that of 1939 and 1940 when the Estonian Government decided to give up part of its sovereignty without a substantive discussion? However, Finland did not do so, and you all know the consequences. Since there seems to be an analogy here, should we not learn from these consequences and really take the matter out of the agenda now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U78	Thank you. However, I would like to remind you once again that a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is needed for the adoption of this draft decision, and I recommend that you ask the rapporteur for the draft. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U79	Thank you, Mr President. I assume that the Riigikogu can handle all kinds of things. However, in order to have procedural access to this debate, this [draft] must still comply with the Constitution and other laws. You can't start discussing things that the Constitution doesn't allow. I would like to refer here to §113 of Chapter 8 of the Constitution, according to which state taxes are imposed on the basis of the Riigikogu Act. My question is this: so that there is no dispute about whether the Riigikogu can deal with it or not, please tell us which law allows us to deal with the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the financing of the European Union's re-launch plan and the approval of the Council of the European Union's decision on the system of own resources. What law empowers us to discuss these matters?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U80	Thank you. In its work, the Riigikogu is governed by all laws, including the Constitution and, of course, by the Home and Working Procedures Act, which sets out the procedure for dealing with both draft decisions and draft laws. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U81	[[Remote connection]] I come back to the fact that this draft has not actually been dealt with, because our proposals for amendments were, in essence, all undisputed, because the government decided to link this to a vote of confidence. Now I say that this is a criminal and reckless step by the government towards the Estonian people and the constitution. Governments come and go, and this government goes with shame, because it has decided not to consider Estonia's sovereignty as something else. Therefore, all these issues, all these discussions are both substantive and procedural, because our procedure does not consider it possible to discuss this draft today.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U82	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U83	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mr President. Why don't we do it democratically anyway? A very large and significant proportion of the members of the public find it to be a procedure contrary to the Constitution. We do not have any assurances from any institution controlling the Constitution that this would not be contrary to the Constitution. Let's get this off the agenda! We take account of the wishes of the MPs and adopt it as a law, as really § 114 of the Constitution states that state burdens are regulated by law, not by a decision of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U84	Thank you. Every member of the Riigikogu is able to shape his or her position after discussing the draft and then vote. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U85	[[Remote connection]] Thank you! Just for the sake of legal clarity, I want to know. If the election of the President of the Riigikogu was 70 votes behind, is it because today perhaps our Riigikogu voting system will not spread to Spain and that is why this decision will be pushed through by a simple majority?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U86	Thank you. Nobody pushes this decision by a simple majority. As I said, this bill requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U87	Thank you, Mr President. I previously asked about the national taxes and charges that the Constitution requires to be dealt with as a law. When I asked you what the law was, you said the constitution and other laws. If you are absolutely certain that your course of action is correct, taking into account your academic background, I would have a very big request that you not remain monotonous, but refer specifically to this law, which gives the right to deal with today's item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U88	Thank you. The Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu lay down the decisions and laws to be dealt with in the Riigikogu and the procedures for their processing, which decisions and laws require a majority of compositions, which do not. This is also specified in § 104 of the Constitution, which says that only by a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu will the following laws be passed, and then there is a list. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U89	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. I really hope that you will talk to the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs about the 329 issue, so that we do not have to repeat this debate next Monday, and that would be nicely on our agenda. But this issue, which has excited colleagues here - Mr Puustusmaa proposed that it be resolved democratically. Am I wrong to say that, according to the Riigikogu's Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, this line of procedural questions, which is currently being set up, is pointless because Mr Korobeinik, on behalf of the group, said that they would not agree to remove this item from the agenda? Moreover, in fact, according to the revised version of the Rules of Procedure, the EKRE no longer has the right to make a proposal to withdraw this item from the agenda because they are not the initiators of the draft. So, in fact, this debate does not matter, because nothing can be done either by the President of the sitting or by anyone else.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U90	Thank you for that question. Indeed, whether or not to remove [this item] from the agenda is now exhausted, and now I would like to go on today's agenda and, more specifically, on the weekly agenda. Reuben Kaalep.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U91	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Please explain how the question of compliance with the Constitution on today's agenda is still not a procedural matter for today's sitting.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U92	Thank you. Once again, the way the [member] of the Riigikogu shapes its decision is a matter for each member of the Riigikogu. If there is time for voting, the vote shall indicate whether the draft is supported or not, and it shall also be clear whether or not the draft is adopted as a decision. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U93	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. With a view to the future, I would like to ask whether this non-manufacturing of drafts and the twisting of rules and regulations will be the way the Riigikogu works in the future with this coalition.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U94	Thank you. Like the Government of the Republic, the Riigikogu is primarily based on our own rules of procedure and our own rules of procedure. Indeed, according to our Home and Working Procedures Act, one of the drafts initiated by the Government of the Republic can also be linked to the matter of trust of the Government of the Republic. Paul Woodland!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U95	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. Good Hanno! You rightly pointed out that § 104 of the Constitution states which laws will be passed by a majority of its members. We're talking about the law. The reference to § 113 of the Constitution would also be appropriate if we were to talk about the law. But we have a decision on the agenda [draft]. It doesn't correspond to the sections of the Constitution you're referring to. Should we not still behave correctly and remove this unconstitutional item from the agenda?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U96	Thank you. Once again, as I said, and this has already been said repeatedly, ordinary draft decisions will be adopted by simple majority. The Riigikogu is, by a majority of its component members, deciding on this draft precisely because it is an analogous decision, as stated in § 104 (15) of the Constitution. Kalle Grünthal!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U97	Thank you, Mr President. Please tell me, can a decision of the Riigikogu impose state taxes and charges, the imposition of which is in fact the competence of the Constitutional Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U98	Thank you. It is already a matter of substance, but as far as I understand, we do not impose any national taxes on this draft decision. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U99	Well, we're still messing with this for a very substantial reason. There are two basic documents. One is the Constitutional Supplementary Act adopted in 2003 in the referendum, which gave us a limited mandate to delegate power to the European Union. And the second is the Supreme Court ruling in 2012, which discussed the admissibility of the ESM. There, in the same way, Estonia assumed financial obligations, but in addition delegated a certain part of its power. At the time, the Supreme Court's decision, in which the votes were divided into practically half of 9 state judges was divided, 10 judges supported the conclusion that the 2003 referendum mandate was exhausted and the further delegation of power was contrary to the Constitution. I would point out that the 2003 referendum mandate was on the amendment to the Constitution. Today, we are talking about a decision by which the European Commission will introduce taxes in the future. The establishment of taxes is constitutionally pure prerogative of the Riigikogu. Nobody else in Estonia can impose taxes or enforce these rates in any way. It is not the government and it is not the competence of the European Commission. If we make this decision today with a draft decision, we will actually change the Constitution. And we will do this by sneaking up, in particular, when we say that today we will do it with 51 votes, although the requirement for a simple majority of votes is usually the case for draft decisions. It can't be that we're a little bit of admitting that we need a higher threshold, but only a threshold so high that the coalition's voices are enough. It doesn't really add up. If we go to change the basic principles of the Constitution, 51 votes will not be enough. Now I just have the question: what happens if we adopt this draft decision today, it is linked to a vote of confidence, we assume that the coalition's votes will stay well, and we have taken an illegal decision? Where will this decision go?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U100	Thank you. The Riigikogu still makes its decision in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, and here we need a majority of the composition. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U101	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good vice chairman. I have this simple kind of question. I am sure that, at this point in time, the Chancellor of Justice's office is listening to this [debate]. Obviously, the Chancellor of Justice would be able to walk here if we asked a few more procedural questions. But I ask you, how much time does it take for the board to formulate a question for the Chancellor of Justice? The Chancellor of Justice would obviously be able to answer that question, but we will not get an answer until we ask him.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U102	Thank you. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that the decisions of the Riigikogu are usually taken by simple majority vote. As this is, as I have told you, in § 104 (15) of the Constitution [as described by analogy], the Board of the Riigikogu has seen the need to treat it as a draft of 51 [to be adopted by a vote in favour]. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U103	[[Remote connection]] Well, it's still very embarrassing how the President-in-Office messes up, talking about the law, the decisions. It is clear to all of us that there is no law here. Here we are talking about the decision of this coalition, the draft decision, and the coalition has decided to illegally push it through by its majority, by amending the Constitution, by putting Estonia in a position where we give away an excessive piece of our sovereignty, which our constitution and our Treaty of Accession do not provide for. That is why I say that this is illegal activity, it is illegal activity, and the fact that you currently have a majority in the Riigikogu does not change that you are engaged in illegal activities and the surrender of the sovereignty of the Estonian state to political centres outside the Estonian state or whatever name we give them. I therefore advise you to think very seriously. Jaak White compared [the current situation] with 1939. The more we surrender sovereignty, the harder it will be for us to defend our independence. Unfortunately, we see that this coalition does not think like that and thinks differently. You're working on breaking the law in the worst way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U104	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out once again that when we arrive at the approval of the agenda and the discussion of this draft decision, you will each have the right to ask two questions from the rapporteur and then every member of the Riigikogu will be able to come to the remote control to give a speech of up to eight minutes. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U105	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. I am still asking once again why the Board of the Riigikogu does not want to take a prior opinion from the Chancellor of Justice as to whether or not it is a draft according to the Constitution. In this case, it has been stressed repeatedly and repeatedly that § 104 of the Constitution talks about the law, but now we are simplifying the framework for processing the decision to deal with the law. In that case, we may also begin to amend the Riigikogu Election Act by decision or change the Presidential Election Act by decision in the future. It's not correct, it can't be correct. The proposal would still be that we are doing this democratically, that we are doing it legally right. Let's take this thing off the clock, ask the Chancellor of Justice for an opinion, and then we can go on right.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U106	Thank you for your opinion. There are no more procedural issues, and we can go to the adoption of the agenda. But now that the debate on procedural issues has taken so long, it would also be polite to do a public suffrage before voting on the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put to the vote the approval of the agenda for the 14th working week of the plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U107	65 members of the Riigikogu supported the adoption of the agenda, 20 against and 1 abstention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U108	Our first and only item on the agenda today is the second reading of the draft decision 353 of the Riigikogu's decision on the financing of the European Union's re-launch plan and on the system of own resources of the Council of the European Union. The rapporteur is Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of Finance. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U109	Honourable Parliament! Thank you for this sentimental introduction. This debate today, which ends with a vote of confidence by the Government on the proposal of the Government of the Republic, is in fact no more or less than Estonia's choice between supporting the division or unity of the European Union that emerges from the crisis. The historic re-launch plan will provide support not only for Estonia that emerges from the crisis, but for all the Member States of the European Union that have been hit hard in this long-standing crisis. The wish of our parliamentary group against the European Union to fail the recovery plan is detrimental to Estonia, economically. In addition, this desire is included in the plan for Estonia to become a destroyer of the European Union. Why are we having such a debate in this Parliament today? One party in the government that supported the European Union's re-launch plan a little more than a year ago has, in the meantime, fallen in opposition. We can all see how this party is now searching for new topics to divide the country in the run-up to local elections. A month ago, the same anti-European group in Parliament launched an initiative to withdraw Estonia from the European Union, which, in my opinion, is part of this not a very clever strategy. This is also the main reason why today we are trying to block the re-launching plan supporting the exit of the entire European Union from the crisis in this way here, by linking the final vote to the survival of the government, we are discussing in the Estonian Parliament. The re-launch plan is an initiative of historical scale that is necessary and worthy of support for Estonia, even for two reasons alone. Firstly, the economy, the survival of jobs and the growth of people's wealth are intertwined with the European Union's economy. If the European Union as a whole is doing badly, if the health crisis is going to be a long and tough economic crisis, then Estonia will also be doing badly. The re-launch plan will help to mitigate this risk and help to get the European Union as a whole out of the crisis. The Re-launch Plan provides up to EUR 750 billion of additional support for the economies of the European Union. However, this re-launch plan will not be implemented until all the Member States of the European Union, which already gave their approval and confirmed this agreement at the level of the Heads of State in July last year, have also adopted it in their Parliament. There is an anti-European party in the Estonian Parliament who has undertaken an attempt to block the additional support of hundreds of billions that are eagerly expected throughout the European Union. And even if the attempt to split may somehow serve the personal campaign interest of the leaders of this party, this attempt is detrimental to Estonia as a whole. Without the re-launch plan, the additional money it contains, the economies of the Member States of the European Union are without a very large source of funding to support reforms and exit from the crisis. It is in Estonia's interest that this should not happen. Secondly, the re-launching plan brings additional money to Estonia of 1.3 to 1.5 billion euros. This money includes over EUR 200 million of direct crisis assistance, in particular to cover the costs of COVID, vaccination and testing. This re-launch plan includes some EUR 200 million in additional funding for job creation and business support in Ida-Virumaa, with over EUR 60 million in additional funding for the Rural Development Fund and up to EUR 1 billion in total for the sectors we have learned to see in this last crisis as a possible future model for survival in similar circumstances, such as the development of digital services. We will pay a little over EUR 1.3 to 1.5 billion for this vital support now, starting in 2026 over a period of about 30 years, to EUR 1.088 billion. Also, in a purely pragmatic way, it is a good agreement for Estonia. But you're against it. The faction of the Riigikogu against the European Union wishes to take money from Tallinn Hospital, Hiiumaa Hospital, Järvamaa Hospital, Kuressaare Hospital, further support for tourism and agriculture, energy efficiency of apartments and boiler houses, to name only some of the funding points of Europe, or our own "solicited" projects. The expression 'Europe is forcing' is one of the most bizarre arguments in this sub-project of breaking Europe. I think it's as mature and as credible as the statement that I had to run away from home because the evening's brush was forced. Are these the maliciousness of Mrs Merkel and Mr Macron, which forces us to act in order to have cleaner air in Viru-Nigula, faster Internet in Pärnu-Jaagup, or smaller heating bills in Kilingi-Nõmme? No, it's not. These things are important to our own people, to the people of Estonia, and to the voters of the EKRE, among other things. In all of this, of course, if you have noticed, the anti-European group will not tell us where it would put the money itself if it were not to be placed in the health sector or in the green and digital revolution, in order to make Europe as a whole more future-proof in economic competition with the United States and the Chinese economy, which are moving in these directions with peniload boots. If EKRE had not been in government for many long years, you could imagine things in this regard. But EKRE was just in the government, and he could put the money where he wanted it. Therefore, we also know where that money, given its own wisdom, went. It was put in an oil factory, for example. These 125 million and more can now be lost at all because the construction of an oil plant has stopped those who are standing up for the environment, and it can stop. The money was also put in a wind farm called Louis Freeh, put in MES and EAS to his friends, put in Porto Franco. And that list could go on for a long time. We know about the results of the last few years where EKRE wouldn't put money. The tourism sector, in the opinion of this party, would probably suck the finger and strawberry pickers into strawberry stalks. We have heard the statements "Why do we need the money of the European Union at all? Why do we need a loan and a re-launch plan from the European Union at all? Estonia alone, on its own, would be able to borrow on much better terms. " There is one small but important point in this thought development: namely, it is not true. Under the same favourable conditions, for such a time and in such volume, Estonia would not receive the money itself. That's it. From the recovery facility, as has been said, we will receive up to EUR 1 billion and a half billion over the next five years and will pay back EUR 1 billion and EUR 88 million from 2026 in the next 32 years. You can see with your naked eye that we're winning. We'll pay back less in the future than we can today. But it is particularly clear when we also mean a change in the value of money over time. We can use this money quite right now, but in 32 years' time, the sums to be repaid are far from worth as much as they are now because of inflation. If we were to borrow the same amount alone, what would be the result? The assessment of the Treasury is this: if the Estonian state were to issue 30-year-old bonds in the same volume itself, the average interest rate for this 30-year-old loan should be 1%, i.e. 15 million per year, with current sovereign ratings and interest rates. If we were to redeem these bonds in 25 years, for example, the loan cost to the Estonian state would be 375 million euros. Perhaps we should pay back, in round terms, not an indicative billion, as is currently the case with the European Union, but an amount of EUR 1.9 billion. If we were to borrow this money on shorter terms, the interest cost would be lower than the 30-year loan, but even if that were the case, we would pay a total of 113 million euros. In other words, clearly more than in the case of the repayment tranche, and that is only on such a not very realistic assumption that the interest on loans will remain at a non-existent level for the next 25 years. On 21 July 2020, the Heads of State or Government of the European Union agreed on the European Union Re-launching Plan and its financing principles, including the system of own resources for financing the budget of the European Union. Estonia is one of the equivalent parties to this agreement, which was born a little less than a year ago. One consequence of this agreement reached last July is that all Member States must approve the decision on the European Union's own resources system before you today. As has been said, until all Member States have completed their national approval and ratification procedures, the European Commission will not be able to take the necessary loans to implement the re-launch plan. The crisis is ongoing. The agreement to provide support for its exit was already made in July last year with the participation of all the countries of the European Union. But now our opponents of the European Union, the EKRE, have decided to simply torpedo implementation. All the statements that have sent out this action carry one general philosophy: the worse for the European Union, the better for the EKRE. I predict, a good EKRE envoy group, that both the initiative you promised a month ago to withdraw Estonia from the European Union and the attempt to block the re-launching plan that brings Estonia EUR 1.5 billion will fail. Firstly, because most of the Estonians' historical memory and sense of history continue to be completely adequate and have not shifted so far as to split up an existentially important connection for us as part of a cynical and domestic policy campaign. Secondly, because the European Union is economically very useful to even its opponents. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! On 6 May, so very recently, we discussed the use of European Union budget money in Estonia as a matter of national importance in this Chamber. Parliament's committees have also repeatedly discussed the content of the re-launch plan. However, until the start-up plan and the decision on own resources are taken, all of this will not actually come to life, to the economy and to the people, because the money cannot be used until the European Commission has been given the power to raise this money on the market. The crisis has been going on for over a year. It can be said without exaggeration that it has probably been encountered in a way or another in every company in Estonia and in every family in Estonia. I am pleased to note that most political groups and political parties forming part of the current Riigikogu have been directed at the introduction of the European Union's recovery fund, the re-launch plan and the shaping of conditions at various stages of the process, and all the political groups of the Riigikogu have been involved in the parliament. It is high time now that we finally approved what was agreed this year, so that the expected aid can actually begin to move. Honourable Riigikogu, I ask you to support this bill. Thank you! I'm ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U110	Good waitress, Minister, thank you. You really do have questions. Martin Helme, please! [[A voice from the hall.]] Let's keep going. Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U111	Thank you. Can you hear me? There was a problem with the connection.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U112	Yeah, I can hear you now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U113	[[Remote connection]] Okay. Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. If there is a problem with this huge collective debt, for example, some countries are leaving the Union or something else that is damaging the economy, finances or sovereignty of the Republic of Estonia, then who is responsible? We people are constantly saying that politicians are not really responsible for anything, that they are not responsible for their bad decisions, that they are not responsible for causing financial damage to the state. In addition, serious questions have arisen about the constitutional compatibility of today's vote. You haven't asked the Chancellor of Justice for an assessment, you're just going to take a risk. This is probably not what the Estonian people expect of the Government of the Republic of Estonia. You can stay at the Kilingi-Nõmme boilerhouse as well as a number of other nice things you mentioned, without doing so. And when you brought that brush comparison, I'm saying that right now, it's like the Reform Party wants to stick a hot oven job in its mouth instead of a toothbrush. This isn't a better plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U114	Thank you. This part of the question, of course, remained a little confusing here. But, of course, first of all, I would like to congratulate you and your EKRE colleagues on the start of the campaign to withdraw Estonia from the European Union and also on the start of the [election] campaign of local governments. I understand that part of the EKRE strategy is to raise votes in Estonia without EUR 1.5 billion. This means that, in essence, you want to take more than 1000 euros out of every Estonian's pocket, even when you count newborns. I doubt that this is a very successful election strategy. I also understand that you have politically chosen to get more votes from the Centre Party, especially from Ida-Virumaa and Lasnamägi, and to do so precisely with the opposition of the European Union and, of course, with a good word in mind of Russia's 'great civilization'. I also do not believe that this is a particularly successful strategy among non-Estonians. If the voters in these places realise that with the current pranking, the attempt to roll through the current recovery plan, you will do nothing but actually prevent support from reaching their homes, and if your goal of failing the restarting plan should be successful, then it will mean less money for their home and poorer quality of life. That's not a smart plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U115	Procedural question, Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U116	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. It seems to me that I was not heard at the beginning, because I asked clearly who was responsible if this was done contrary to the Constitution. The minister started talking about the EKRE and taking it somewhere else. Did you hear me or didn't you? My question was, who is responsible?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U117	Yes, thank you! I heard. Let's keep going. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U118	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Do you think the European Central Bank is an independent institution? And should the independence of the central bank be seen in the same way as the interests of independent nation states and the independence of the financial interests of the private banking sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U119	Yes, it is an independent institution.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U120	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U121	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Very interesting introduction and discussion. I'm listening, and I'm looking at the pattern of manipulation. EKRE still has a lot to learn from this. But I would like to ask my question for the sake of the verbatim. What taxes will come at the request of the European Union in the future? Can Estonia say no if it is not useful for Estonia, but the European Union wants these taxes? The tax on plastic packaging waste is already an example here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U122	Thank you. This bill and the re-launch plan do not add any tax that any person or company would have to pay. It does not include the introduction of any taxes. And just as there has been and will continue to be, the principle of unanimity applies to the European Union's tax policy. It can't be any different. By the way, Mrs Aart, I remember that in an earlier debate you were rightly concerned about the situation in the tourism sector in Estonia and about the support that the tourism sector, including rural areas, is planning or planning in the near future. It must be said that REACT-EU, which receives additional funding from the Re-launch Plan, will channel an additional EUR 17 million to the tourism sector and EUR 63 million to the Rural Development Fund. That is what you are currently opposed to by blocking the adoption of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U123	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U124	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. The duties of the Supreme Committee of the Riigikogu will end in connection with the question of trust pursuant to the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, and the Government of the Republic will prepare a draft of the materials necessary for the second reading. I read this draft explanatory memorandum on the amendments. I would remind you that the Fatherland tabled one amendment and the EKRE 765. In the explanatory memorandum, the Government of the Republic says: "The Government of the Republic does not consider it possible to accept proposals that would go beyond the limits of the agreement reached by the Heads of State or Government of the EU Member States in July 2020 and/or do not fall within the scope of the own resources decision. " I dare say that the Fatherland proposal does not fall under either qualification; I cannot comment on the EKRE proposals. Why did you not take into account the proposal of the Fatherland, or what is the government's position on our proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U125	Thank you. Mr Seeder, I understand the content of your proposal from your earlier questions, and also from the debate we had with each other in this Chamber. You actually wished the Riigikogu to play a greater role in channeling European Union money and in sharing [on this subject]. But now, if you look at this particular proposal for improvement, which has been formulated in such a way that the use of own resources in Estonia takes place on the basis of the decision of the Riigikogu, this wording has not been successful. It is unlikely to be implemented in such a way that your goal can actually be achieved. Unfortunately, you did not provide any explanation for your amendment at all. Just as I said in the debate on European Union money in this Chamber on 6 May, it was in principle that Parliament would be more involved in essentially directing European Union money in such a way as to support our far-reaching tasks, major reforms and changes, I think it is sensible and right. In itself, the fact that the committees are doing this quite actively now and have taken on a very good role is, in my opinion, very much appreciated. I certainly support that. But this particular amendment, really, if you also read it over again, I think we can continue this debate later, [then you will probably understand that] its wording was not the most successful.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U126	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U127	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! It's always interesting to listen to each member of the Porto-Rollo government's elegant lies. I wasn't disappointed today either. Thank you. But the one-and-a-half billion you serve here as a gift from heaven is to be paid back. Do you now know what the interest on this loan is? How big is it if you know?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U128	Thank you. You know, you can portoroll as much as you like. Every time you do, it suggests you've run out of substantive arguments. The amount of Estonian repayments for the additional support to be paid is 1.3 to 1.5 billion and 88 million. That's what I said in the introduction to my speech. This is the amount of repayments that Estonia is paying for making it possible to mobilise 1.3-1.5 billion now, depending on the change in the economy of recent times. Mr Reitelmann, since you, too, in a previous debate, were concerned about the financing of the vaccination and whether and how much money is planned and what we have in terms of forecasting and preparedness for a situation where vaccination and COVID testing must be continued, it should be said here that the re-launch plan also includes additional money for these activities. For testing and related activities: 22.26 million, for vaccination, i.e. vaccines, for vaccination, more than 25 million euros. So if your previous concern was serious and there was no illusion, then this restart plan will include additional money for these important activities as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U129	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U130	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Minister of Finance! I certainly support the adoption of this decision. Indeed, in my view, such a trivial delay in this decision is not justified. I am generally of the opinion that, in a crisis situation, we should also borrow if necessary in order to invest in education, social affairs and public services and to emerge stronger from the crisis. I would like you to open up your fiscal philosophy a little more broadly, because you very much support this decision, but at least at national level you have practiced such vulgar neoliberalism, that the country is always bad, everything that can be privatised, everything must be cut off. For example, you want to cut off the interest money to let the local governments see if they're helping the children or not. Could you explain why you have one view of European politics, but a completely different view of monetary policy within the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U131	Thank you. Mr Ossinovski, we obviously also need to continue this debate in greater depth in internal politics. When we talk about borrowing, we start with whether we are talking about borrowing to cover running costs that are unsustainable, or whether we are talking about borrowing to invest. Just in a situation where Estonia currently has a total of EUR 8 billion for the next four years to invest more than EUR 2 billion per year, the main issue should not be where we can borrow additional loans, but how we can use the EUR 8 billion that we have in order to reach important large projects and projects supporting new growth in the future. This is a principle which, in any case, must also be supported for national policies. If running costs, operating costs, fixed costs are consistently higher than revenues and if they are rigid and if we have a situation where we still do not have reserves for more difficult times to cover all this deficit or have been spent, then the current reaction has been such that the sinker is grabbing for the loan. However, it is a slippery path in this sense that once it has been completed by this route, we continue to talk about paying running costs with a loan, it is like gambling addiction. It is difficult to give up, it is difficult financially, there is less and less money left over from the repayment of loans to cover the necessary things and make the necessary decisions, but the need is growing. So what's left? What's left is that you have to double the loan. This is neither sustainable nor sensible. I think there's a reason to ask where we could end up in the first place. Instead of increasing the debt burden, however, I will say once again, we must look for and find places where the substantive policies that have been practiced so far will be reformed. If this substantive policy is not for reform, we know that in any case the pressure will follow for tax increases, which is not a good solution either in the form of tax increases or in the form of credit dependency. The fact that the re-launch plan allows investment in places that are particularly important to come out of the crisis and which support new growth and which help to make large investments in places where it would probably take us long and long years to make the same investment with our own tax money will help the Estonian economy as a whole. And as I described earlier in reply to one of the questioners, it is purely economical at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U132	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U133	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, With your infamous green turn in Ida-Virumaa, you want to cut through the work experience of historically established miners' dynastys. Perhaps in essence, there will also be a loss of experience and know-how in history. The comfort is you're creating new jobs. But my question is, what about our resources? Who's gonna mine them later if we don't have our own ability to do that? Who, then, will continue to mine our natural resources and national wealth? We don't have our own capabilities. And the consequence is that we land with our national wealth, which could develop our economy, to the same level as the African countries where the mineral resources there are mining and profiting from developed industrialised countries. Why haven't you ever talked about this? Who's gonna mine them later?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U134	Thank you. Mr. Grünthal! If your heart is concerned about Ida-Virumaa and I have already realised that this is the case, then the re-launch plan is linked to the fair transfer fund and the financing of these measures. A total of EUR 353 million will be allocated to Ida-Viru County through the Fair Transfer Fund. It is designed directly to support the success of Ida-Virumaa, to support the living conditions of the people of Ida-Virumaa. Don't mind it. Why do you object?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U135	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U136	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. Honourable Minister of Finance! In order to assess whether, in this case, it is not legal nihilism, I ask: under what legal provision, law and section can the Riigikogu decide to replace the laws provided for in § 104 (15) of the Constitution with regard to foreign and internal loans binding on the Estonian state and the property obligations of the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U137	Thank you. Well, that debate came here very carefully before I had the chance to come to the remote. I think the answers of the President of the sitting of the Riigikogu were exhaustive and there is little to add to this, frankly. However, it is quite appropriate to make a reference to the fact that, in June last year, when the government approved the positions on the re-launch plan in the then government, if I am not mistaken, not only with the participation of one Helme, but with the participation of two Helme, the government at that time adopted positions which the explanatory memorandum states that the re-launch plan will not change the nature of the European Union, it is done within the framework of the current Treaties and it does not require them to be amended. This is the position adopted unanimously by the previous government.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U138	Martin Helme, please! Question one.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U139	Thank you. Yeah, well, I didn't hear your introductory speech, but I hardly missed anything. Because how do we know a reform party is lying? The answer is, the mouth is moving. This previous reference you spoke about, Estonia's views. Yes, they were indeed Estonia's views that there must be no change, that the treaties of the European Union must not be violated, etc., June. In these positions, to which you also referred, there was also a very simple sentence. Indeed, the re-launch plan must not lead to new central European taxes. Now, this is going to be a very interesting question. If [the amount of the loan] is as high as we have it, how is the repayment going to take place? It stopped hanging in the air last year. But how will repayment be made if there are broadly three options: will there be pan-European taxes, or will the amounts paid up by the Member States become much higher, or will payments to the Member States be much smaller? What are the choices that are left now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U140	Thank you. The explanatory statement of the positions was literally what I quoted earlier. Indeed, this concerned an explanation of the positions expressed by the government that the re-launch plan does not change the nature of the European Union, nor is it in any way contrary to the current Treaties. This has been done within the framework of the existing Treaties, in particular, and does not require their amendment. To this, Mr Helme, you have given your own approval. Repayments shall be made to the budget of the European Union. As we discussed and described this draft at first reading, each Member State is responsible for its own role. It is so unambiguously stated. And perhaps it is also important to overcome what happens when there is a situation where the limit for Member States is temporarily raised to 0.6% of GDP. Of course, I would like to ask you that, if I remember correctly, you have just recently said that there is no need to repay the loans at all. I don't know what you're worried about. Which one is it? Should it or shouldn't it be? Take one line and try to stand firm on it. But yes, as far as possible and very hypothetically, according to this plan, Estonia's contribution to repayment can temporarily rise to 0.6% of our GDP. Later, this change will be offset against our deposit liabilities, which is also an important part. So let's remember: 0.6% of GDP. Your party raised Estonia's loan burden by 9.8% of GDP in two years alone. This means that it is a loan currently being discussed for Estonian finances or any insolvency of Greece compared to the EKRE, to be honest, is a very small risk, even ten times less risk. As you certainly have remembered and well known since a year ago, the European Commission is obliged, before asking the Member States for this 0.6% money, to use all the alternative financing options at its disposal. Perhaps the probability that all other options have been exhausted and this scenario will materialise is very low. But even if it does, it's more than ten times as much as our own increased loan burden over the last two years. Of course, it is also important that so far no Member State has failed to fulfil its obligations. This means that we should talk about the bankruptcy of some Member States, but it is a very, very hypothetical situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U141	Mart Helme, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U142	[[Remote connection]] Yeah. Since the Minister mentioned that the two ministers, the two Helmets, were in the previous government who approved this recovery plan, I would remind you that Martin Helme, in the Council of Finance Ministers, refused to approve it and this was done by the current President of the Riigikogu when he passed the decision of the Minister of Finance. So it's not true that we approved it. And I have a request to the Honorable Chairman: maybe to check the state of the Minister of Finance's mental state, whether he's under some kind of drug or he's having some kind of mental disorder right now, because I haven't experienced as aggressive a lie as we are hearing right now, I haven't experienced my entire career in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U143	Honourable members of the Riigikogu, please respect the Minister in our conversation. I'm sure that goes for your last line too. I, too, could explain this process years ago in the context of a procedural question, but I shall cancel it. Let's keep going. Please, let's maintain respect and respect. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U144	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I, on the other hand, thank you very much for your speech. Really, very bold answers. Anyone who would like to look into the reimbursement scheme, see the explanatory statement, that's very good. Martin Helmel will certainly be overreacting, with both numerically and in other ways explained refund schemes and ways and risks as well. I ask, however, that the European Union has very sympatheticly put all other issues, including the collection of own resources, at the service of its great goal, or 'green turn'. On the basis of the recovery of plastic waste, this share of own resources will be taken into account. But what about Estonia? If we are aiming at this type of greening, are we going to follow the example of the European Union and shift the tax burden to more polluters and polluting activities in the case of our own tax system?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U145	Thank you, good questioner! I think that a more in-depth debate on the future of the tax system lies ahead as a whole. Its role is certainly also that of charging for, or paying for, activities that are burdensome to the environment. As far as plastic waste, plastic packaging waste and their recycling are concerned, it is true that we are in a pretty bad state when we compare ourselves with many other countries in the European Union. But even if we do not make this comparison, but just look at the current situation, we certainly need and can do much better with the resources that have already been produced, so that we do not just throw them or leave them somewhere in a dump on the right side of the dump, in the worst case in the wild, to pollute nature for a very long time, but find more and more ways to recycle and re-use this once produced resource. This is what the Ministry of the Environment is doing very seriously and very well. So I believe that we have reason to expect initiatives and news in the near future precisely about how, first of all, to motivate us to sort and collect, but secondly, how to motivate precisely these production capacities to emerge in Estonia so that we have the capacity to recycle the material. Work is ongoing in this area and is necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U146	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U147	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Following this so-called presentation, I think it is important to note first that you are quite low here instead of introducing the draft and answering questions, instead of being arrogant with the members of the Riigikogu. But my question: can you give your word here that this bill, if it is now adopted, will not lead to any tax increases later on for us Estonian taxpayers?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U148	Thank you. Yeah, this bill does not include tax increases or new taxes concerning the approval of the restarting scheme as it is here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U149	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U150	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Dear Minister, You answered my question that the European Central Bank is an independent institution. However, I am concerned about the potential conflict of interest between the central bank and the private banking sector, which also provides loans to countries and the central bank. Indeed, the world's debt has never been as great as it is now. Last year it accounted for 32% of the gross domestic product of all countries. The debt burden of the euro area is also 84% of the total production in the euro area. In this situation, do you really think it is wise to take another huge loan? Aren't you afraid that this process could ultimately lead to the collapse of the world's financial and banking system, as we know it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U151	Thank you. I think that if this additional support agreed last year does not reach the economies of the Member States of the European Union in order to enable them to emerge from the crisis more quickly and to have support in precisely those sectors and places where it is most needed, it may end up with a very long and tough economic crisis for the European Union economy, which probably even the most cynical of us do not want at all. I think it is therefore important that this recovery plan is finally adopted and that it also leads to real implementation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U152	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U153	Thank you. Dear Minister, I come back to my previous question, concerning the amendment of the Fatherland, on which you said that it is entirely reasonable and correct, but the wording is not appropriate. And now the Government's explanatory memorandum states that you do not take into account proposals that go beyond the limits of the agreement reached by the Heads of State or Government of the Member States of the European Union or do not fall within the scope of the own resources decision. The amendments proposed by the Fatherland do not fall under either of the non-qualification requirements. Maybe he should fit. When you said that, in essence, it is perfectly appropriate and correct, what prevented the government from essentially taking this into account? The law allows you to come here, in a modified or improved form, and to properly define Parliament's role and role in the use of the recovery facility. Why didn't you act like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U154	Thank you. However, this is the case that this proposal concerns you in the process of holding our subsequent discussions within the country, after the re-launch plan has been approved and implemented at European Union level and when changes to own resources have been implemented. This concerns the national process and the national process is not part of this decision. So, therefore, I think we can continue this debate and do it quite constructively.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U155	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U156	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! You mentioned here that running costs were covered by a loan. The most popular party in Germany is now the Green Party and it is very possible that Annalena Baerbock will become the next Chancellor of the Union. The German Greens have written their electoral platform and published 137 pages. It's a crazy document with a green twig with a terrible price tag on it. They even want to withdraw the debt brake from the Constitution and give the German State the opportunity to borrow unlimited. Well, if Germany changes, the European Union will change. So for change, we'll probably have to be ready and start taking a terrible debt. But the purpose of any debt should be to create jobs. I ask you what the government's plan or purpose is. How many jobs are going to be created for this billion and a half?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U157	Thank you. The government supports job creation in a way that is done by the private sector. The government itself will certainly not create jobs in this form in the Republic of Estonia. But when you were concerned about the European Union's policy in general, and specifically about the electoral programme of the German Green Party, I realized that you have started your local government campaign with the initiative on Estonia's withdrawal from the European Union, which you announced about a month ago in this Parliament. I think it's a much more dangerous plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U158	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U159	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'm gonna ask you a little bit about legal. You said you had nothing to add, but I hope you have something to add to the debate that went on at the beginning of the sitting. Indeed, the executive edition of the Constitution says that whether it is a law or a decision to be adopted should not really depend on a majority. However, he clearly states that, when it comes to taking over property obligations, there could actually be a law instead of a decision, because there is greater constitutional control. In this context, I ask in what way, in your vision, the decision by which we approve this specific European Union initiative and the underlying European Union legislation are in agreement. Or, in fact, how connected are they? European legislation also says specific amounts, etc.; our legislation simply approves it. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] If, for example, in the future, this European Union document will be amended, in your vision...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U160	Good questioner! Your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U161	... The Riigikogu needs a new mandate, or do we give such a bill of lading?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U162	Your time! Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U163	Thank you. First of all, yes, this first observation was very precise. The executive edition of the Constitution states that acts relating to state loans or property liabilities to the State should generally be decided by a majority of votes in favour. And this form of act itself, whether it is a law or a decision, is by no means the main commentary of this executive publication. That's right. And the current decision still concerns an agreed one-off mandate. If there are significant changes or if there is a new, additional package or amendment, then, of course, if our laws so require, it must come back to the Riigikogu or discuss the next or other initiative in such a form and in such a way as the law requires.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U164	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U165	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I asked my first question, who will mine our mineral resources, and I also pointed out, of course, that with this green turn in Ida-Virumaa, you will actually eliminate the lifelong work experience of miners in this sector. Instead, you answered my question by giving these people a lot of money from the recovery fund, and that is the end of it. But you didn't answer my substantive question. And now I ask you, listen carefully, please, who will mine our mineral resources after this heroe has been carried out? So we don't have our own sector anymore.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U166	Thank you. Mining can be carried out in the Republic of Estonia, as in all other Republics, by people who are qualified to do so and who continue to work in this sector. It can't be any different. Your question must also have been about job creation, about how many more jobs will be created and whether there will be more jobs in the whole of this re-launch scheme. In fact, this impact assessment is really saying with the Re-launch Facility, when we are only talking about the Re-launch Facility, not the whole big re-launching plan, which includes a total of approximately 3100 jobs per year, i.e. a total of 13000 jobs for the whole period, for example, REACT-EU direct crisis assistance. That is why I am saying once again: it is crucial that it is actually possible to implement this plan at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U167	Martin Helme, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U168	Thank you. I'll take care of something first. The Recovery Fund did not go to the Finance Ministers' Council last year, but was always only at prime ministers' level. And on my previous question, I must say that this is exactly the case: we cannot start talking until the lies start flying. I didn't say anywhere that you don't have to pay back your debts. I don't know where you take it. You go around with your colleague, Jürgen Ligi, and you talk like I said something like that. I would like to see where I have said so, and then I would like to know what context this debate was in. In the same way, I think it should be embarrassing to talk about how in two years we made the debt of the Estonian state 9.8% higher than GDP. You know very well that the absolute majority of this debt came from a corona crisis. And the current government will continue to borrow in the same order of magnitude in the coming years. You don't think it's funny talking like that? But what do we want from the government that sends dogs and special units besides the people who are collapsing the milkmannergart, but does nothing when 10,000 people are spreading the corona at the bronze soldier? Instead, we let our soldiers take off their uniforms. But Ossinovsky's question was not answered either. What if this sum increases later? Will you come back here to renew the mandate? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U169	Good questioner, your time. Thank you. I'm sorry, waitress, for a moment. A procedural question, Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U170	[[Remote connection]] Good Chairman! I don't know if the name of this thing is a procedural question, but since my name was called, I'd like to take care of it. I never said Martin Helme said that sentence. Nor is it true of his claim that this draft or the whole package did not go through the meeting of the European Finance Ministers. It's been checked. It has also been checked that Mr Helme did not get to these meetings very much, either at finance ministers' events or in the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U171	Thank you. And now, please, Minister! You can answer Martin Helme's question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U172	Thank you. My reference, of course, was to the explanatory statement of positions approved by the Government of the Republic. I don't suppose you're trying to squirm out of it, Mr. Helme. You were a member of the Government of the Republic at the time. And these positions, together with an explanatory memorandum which unambiguously states that there is no conflict with the Treaties in the case of this re-launching plan, were positions which were unanimously accepted by the government. In this sense, my reference was not to the ECOFIN debate or these conclusions, but to Estonia's own positions approved by our own government. The specific loan to be granted under the recovery plan is fixed at a specific amount and number. Within this framework, one-off powers are currently being granted, as is the mandate to cover expenditure specifically linked to the re-launch plan and the whole package, and nothing else.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U173	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U174	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable Minister of Finance! You have repeatedly pointed out that the EKRE has called for an exit from the European Union. In itself, this restoration of independence of the Republic of Estonia in the form or by means of an exit from the European Union is in itself a very positive and interesting perspective, perhaps. But I stress that, unfortunately or fortunately, the EKRE has not yet taken any direct steps like this. Secondly, my question is: do you, as Minister of Finance, assume political responsibility if this act of the Riigikogu, in which the decision replaces the law, proves to be essentially or formally contrary to the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U175	Exactly a month ago, on 10 April, Mart Helme announced that he wanted to establish and establish a support group for withdrawal from the European Union in the Riigikogu. I don't know how this information is moving there inside [the party], but it's almost a higher level of announcement and decision made in your party. So I'm sure you're familiar with it. This initiative, the removal of Estonia from the European Union, is in no way a positive idea or something like that, but it is an attempt to break up the European Union and put Estonia in a significantly worse position than today, both in economic, security and in many other respects. And it's dangerous. This certainly cannot be allowed to happen. But it is also obvious that your attempt to bring about this new division in Estonia has nothing to do with anything other than the situation where you have fallen into opposition in the meantime and where you have to look and search every corner for opportunities for a new topic that divides. Leaving the European Union is likely to be one of the victims. This draft is presented in the knowledge that it is in conformity with the Constitution. There is no contradiction here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U176	Mart Helme, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U177	[[Remote connection]] Yes, because my name was mentioned and, of course, lying again, lying about us wanting to get Estonia out of the European Union and split up, etc. We want a discussion on whether the European Union is what we joined or not. And we have also made a comment to the press. But as we see in the reform party, their reading skills are limited and their functional reading skills are completely lacking. So I'm absolutely not surprised that the world probably right now one of the worst ministers in one of the worst governments comes to tell me things, like he's living in my head. He doesn't live in my head! And another thing: while we were in the government, we also said that we would not be able to support the recovery fund if it resulted in new European taxes, centralisation and a reduction in our sovereignty. We said that clearly when we were in the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U178	Good fellows! Just for information: the Home and Working Procedures Act really provides that if there are negotiations and if anyone is mentioned, there is an opportunity for a reception. At the moment, however, we have a round of questions. And now a procedural question got out of here. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U179	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! Before we got here, there was this cheeky little gibberish from the remote that every time we say Porto-Rollo, we've run out of arguments. But let's say Porto-Rollo, because the leading party in Porto Franco is currently with you in the government and in the autorollo withdrawals and the transfers made from the Riigikogu's computer will be yours forever. But I say again that every time you attack this remote EKRE cynically and skinly, it shows that your arguments have run out or, rather, they haven't. But I have a question, too. You here boasted how a fair transfer fund of 353 million brings happiness to the yard of Ida-Virumaa. It is divided into six years. Now tell me what this 58 million euros a year can do for Ida-Viru energyists and miners to compensate for their loss of work as it is about 4 000 to 1 000 million jobs that are being reorganized in this sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U180	Thank you. For this EUR 353 million, a large part of which comes from your blocked re-launch plan, EUR 153 million is going to support investments in entrepreneurship in Ida-Viru, and this also concerns industry in Ida-Viru County. EUR 50 million is for entrepreneurs in Ida-Virumaa to get to a new level and receive support to increase their research intensity, a support package that is very welcome among local entrepreneurs. 25 million are business diversification support services. 15 million are separate, specific support for small businesses. 25 million to increase the volume of Ida-Viru continuing training to support precisely those who need and are looking for opportunities for further training and retraining. Similarly, this money is directly linked to the transformations that lie ahead in Ida-Virumaa for the development of new degree curricula. In addition, there are 20 million of oil shales to untie district heating. This oil shale trap, to which Ida-Viru County has remained, is not only linked to jobs, but is indeed a broader issue and problem. To enable the district heating system in Ida-Virumaa to function in a way that is not dependent on oil shale, it invests 20 million euros. In order to address specific environmental problems related to the extraction and processing of oil shale, as well as to provide support for wider health impacts, i.e. to reduce health damage, EUR 10 million is foreseen. In addition, the investments made by municipalities in these areas which are eligible for aid are EUR 15 million. EUR 16.74 million is support for regional initiatives for a fair transition. So, in summary, 273 million are meant directly for entrepreneurship, which all these discussions confirm on the ground in Ida-Virumaa. It is very expected that this money will finally arrive after a long discussion. This money will not arrive until the recovery facility has been approved and then it is possible that it will open up. And 66.74 million of this total amount is for the living environment to support it as well, and precisely to mitigate the impact of the oil shale industry on the ground. A total of 353 million will be directed to Ida-Viru County in order to get the re-launch plan approved.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U181	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U182	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Secretary! Well, you don't know anything about anything. You're going to read us some numbers that the officials have written to you, and you think it's done with your work. But your work is not done. If you knew that over a year alone, the entire oil shale sector has made 400 million profits, so what is this 353 million over this number of years? It's change! Besides, people don't want benefits, people don't want alms. People want work and social status, what they now have. You can't think about that at all. But my question is now something else, especially after yesterday's embarrassing toothless and hypocritically lying behaviour at the cemetery of Inner Town, and especially considering that the militia were ordered to wear private clothes. Do you realize that you are preparing a Crimean scenario?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U183	[[It's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U184	The question was this: does the government report that a crisis scenario is being prepared? The whole point of this re-launch plan is precisely the crisis where the country has been for more than a year and not just the state of Estonia, but the countries of the European Union as a whole. This is precisely what this support package is meant for, to get out of the crisis. If I understood the question correctly. The end, I admit, hastened to Mr. Hellel.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U185	A procedural question, Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U186	[[Remote connection]] He's procedural in the sense that the Minister really misunderstood. My question was whether the government would understand that it was preparing a Crimean scenario in Eastern Virumaa, not a crisis scenario, but a Crimean scenario. That's completely different.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U187	Thank you. Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U188	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I really wish you every success in your personal life, but I do not know whether I can wish you the same in your political life, because what is actually going on, linking the bill to a vote of confidence, is clearly taking the additional powers of executive power at the expense of the House of Representatives, and is unambiguously opposed to the principle of parliamentary democracy. It is true that this has been done in the past, although, as far as I know, not so important, which is probably contrary to the fundamental principles of our constitution, so this is a particularly dangerous precedent. One of the most well-known examples of the gradual reduction of Parliament's competences is, in particular, the Weimar Republic of the 1930s. It is true that Parliament's powers were reduced there, not by linking the draft with a vote of confidence, but by passing the parliamentary debates with the President's emergency decrees, and by 1932 Germany had ceased to be a parliamentary democracy. The democracy of the Republic of Weimar was the only name left. What happened next...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U189	Good questioner, please questioner!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U190	...you'll know. I now have the question: can you say that this is the only draft that the government is linking to a vote of confidence, or are similar moves undermining parliamentary democracy still to come?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U191	Thank you. I'm asking for an answer!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U192	Thank you, Mr. White! I wish you every success in your personal and professional life. You guys have a good time! The fact that we are now with the government before Parliament with a draft, the final vote of which is also a vote of confidence by the government, is the result of the situation we have reached. We have had a long crisis. We have a re-launch plan approved by the government in office last year for this crisis last year, last summer, which supports the European Union as a whole, all the Member States of the European Union in order to make it easier to manage these countries out of this crisis and brings important support to the Estonian economy as well. We can see that it is simply being tried to block amendments that have nothing to do with the draft, but simply an attempt to block and thwart this very important refund support. The failure to reach the Estonian economy of 1.3 to 1.5 billion because our anti-European group, in the form of an EKRE, blocks the adoption of the draft, is detrimental to the Estonian economy and the Estonian state. It is harmful and for the European Union as a whole that we are blocking the entire European Union facility to come out of the crisis. And the fact that Estonia is being tried to be a destroyer of the European Union is something that the government simply cannot accept. That is why the draft is before you in precisely this form, and the proposal that the final vote should also be a vote of confidence by the government. Whether there will be more of these examples in the coming years is illustrated by time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U193	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U194	[[Remote connection]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U195	Mr. Halfway, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U196	Finland is also concerned about this. For example, Mr Leino-Sandberg of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has said that this is a step towards the Federation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U197	Mr. Halfway, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U198	How do you think it is: is this facility temporary or is it actually creating a permanent mechanism?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U199	Thank you. First of all, I think that the part of the real-life debate should also be that, if you are opposed to investing EUR 1.3 to 1.5 billion in Estonia in this form, precisely in the form that we are talking about specific areas, and if you are opposed to the fact that this money goes into healthcare, business, digital revolution, once again, these are all the areas that the government considered necessary a year ago and, consensually, found that it is only thoughtful to support them from the recovery fund, and if you are opposed to the fact that this money goes to Eastern Virumaa and the additional money goes to the rural development fund, what are your proposals where you want to put this money? I have not heard the substantive side, either today or actually, during the first reading debate. In my opinion, a substantive debate is absolutely necessary and awaited, but what you do not have at the moment is precisely the content. Now, the debate on federalisation. Yes, the debate on federalisation in Europe is actually going on all the time. There's nothing to be scared of. This has basically been happening since the European Union was created, and that is democracy. However, the Republic of Estonia is still, and at any moment, a sovereign state, which itself decides what is good for our people, with which we go, with which we do not go. I think that we need to look wisely at and assess how this world is developing, i.e. how strong it is and in what direction the United States is developing in the direction of the oil industry, how China is developing, where, for example, Russia is economically, how regional blocs are changing in the world as a whole, how they are developing, how they are doing. Is the European Union, which is home to us, strong enough to look at and analyse all these trends? Is the European Union united and attractive to business and entrepreneurship, or is there a need to change something? I think that, in all this debate, we will perhaps sooner or later also come to such a general human belief at one point that the earth is one whole. But it's probably going to take a lot of time, and it's going to have to go through the age of the regional blocs. But, yeah, this discussion isn't going anywhere. Our business and task is not to be quiet in this debate, but to represent Estonia's interests in it, to shape our positions, to say them clearly and boldly and to be part of this debate. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U200	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U201	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Good minister! I don't know where you're taking it, as if the EKRE is against investing in health, business or elsewhere. This is completely absurd. It's embarrassing to hear your condescending accusations and lies. You are always talking about grants, and you said literally here that there will be no tax on the re-financing facility. It's just another lie. It is not a grant of any kind, it is a loan that we have to pay back, and it will undoubtedly result in pan-European taxes, such as plastic tax, a coal tax already being discussed, etc. So, because you call it some kind of own resource, the liver is the liver. Why are you spinning and lying? Don't you think that's exactly what you're doing to increase your opposition to this whole thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U202	Mr Põllaas, first of all, I must say that I have tried to follow your point very closely over the last few weeks. Last week, you expressed your opinion that the problems with the Refinancing Facility are, among other things, because this money must be used in haste, already by 2026. In that sense, I think you've been a little more consistent yourself. Which one is it? Are there so many projects so good and so big that you need to raise money and borrow more, as the two leaders of your party have said, or is it the other way round that even by 2026 making big investments and projects seems to you to be too hasty? I have a feeling there's a little bit of an orwell world here, that black is white and white is actually black and they're alternating in any order. You should probably have a more consistent line here. There's no such thing as plastic tax. It is not, in any way, included in this very draft re-launch plan. As has been said, no Estonian resident will pay any plastic tax under this bill or as a result. But true, part of this bill is that Estonia's contribution to the budget of the European Union will depend on how well we can recycle plastic waste in Estonia. At present, our contribution to the budget of the European Union, to which we will still pay less when we get back to Estonia in the form of grants, depends to a large extent on the wealth of the country. Maybe the richer we get, the more wealthy Estonia gets, the more we pay into the European Union budget. It's been known for a long time to be the natural course of things. So if we look at this own resources solution in a very pragmatic way now, it can be said that, in the distant future, if we get above the European Union average in terms of the rise in our general standard of living and the level of development, we are at 85%, we will even benefit from the fact that our taxes that we transfer to the European Union budget will also depend on something other than just wealth or only wealth. The same charge calculated on the basis of the recycling of plastic waste can directly affect ourselves, precisely in such a way that the more we do sensible work anyway, or recycle plastic, the lower the charge we charge to the budget of the European Union as part of it. Of course, the other half of the European Union's budget is still that it also depends on the amount of expenditure that the European Union budget wants to make. If it should happen that in the future, it will be decided that some common policy is needed less, for example, and the European Union budget as a whole will get less, then our contribution will be the same. But yes, after all, plastic is essentially a secondary fossil fuel that does not decompose in nature and creates environmental problems. Its recycling and recycling arrangements are the responsibility of the State. And if this arrangement is poor, the state will pay the European Union budget proportionally, equally, how bad it is. So once again: no new tax will be paid by any resident or undertaking on the basis of this recovery fund and the own resources decision. This is not part of this decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U203	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U204	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. First of all, I will join my colleague Jaak White's wishes, and I would also like to wish you all the best in personal terms as well as in professional terms. We are as good in Estonia as our people are. But I'm asking about the re-launch facility and the process. You focused on the positive, useful aspects of the presentation. But since this is a process with a lot of variables, maybe you could say a few words about whether you did some negative, unwanted consequences analysis. What are they, both in the European plan and in Estonia, and how can they be rejected?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U205	Thank you. That is a very good question in itself. If that is the case, one risk point is that this whole very large package of support for the economy will not be able to reach those places where this support is very much expected. This time will be very long, from the start of the crisis to the end of the realization of this large re-launch scheme. After all, we also know from Estonia's own example that, since the crisis has been disproportionately affecting different areas, say, very unevenly, the sectors that are in a very critical position really need support as quickly as possible. I have therefore pointed out that the tourism support that grew in REACT-EU, or which we increased to more than EUR 17 million, is an example that it is a sector that is very badly hit, which expects the money to actually arrive. The longer this preparatory season lasts, the more difficult they will be. Of course, the risks are also linked to the fact that in very specific areas where the implementation of this money requires certain skills itself, for example, when we talk about the whole digital field, skills are immediately lacking. I think it is not so much our problem, Estonia's problem, but it may be in those countries where, for example, this has not been achieved so quickly. This may be one of the problems we need to think about. I think, yeah, they're basic. For example, speaking of digitisation, last year's McKinsey analysis has said that, thanks to the crisis, this cannot actually be said, it sounds strange, say, because of the crisis and its perception of the importance of digitisation in the economy as a whole, the digitisation of the European Union is now taking place seven years faster than it would have done without the crisis. So surely this recognition of the importance of investing and really making meaningful changes in the digital field is much more now in the Member States of the European Union as a whole than it was two or three years ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U206	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U207	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I have bad news for you: Estonia will not be richer under the leadership of the Reform Party. I do, however, have good news for the people of Estonia: the European Union will disband before it can bankrupt the whole of Europe with all of this package and other packages. So I have good news and bad news. I'm curious, of course. My curiosity is: do you have some kind of crystal ball that you know that no Estonian person will ever pay a common European tax? That's a very brave point of view, I wouldn't dare sign it. But I have another, more specific question. It concerns that if I listen to what you're saying, how money should be distributed, and the Reform Party is this money-sharing party, I wonder where your liberality is. Where's your entrepreneurial spirit? Or, in the meantime, have you transferred in corpore to your ex-Chairman's once-in-a-party party?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U208	Yeah. First of all, one of the previous questions concerned whether and why a specific draft, which is currently ahead of Members, contains a plastic tax. Such a tax is not included in this bill. I also confirmed that, indeed, this bill concerns the implementation of the re-launch plan and the introduction of own resources, but no tax is decided on Estonian people or companies within the framework of this draft. That is indeed the case. I think I'm just gonna stop there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U209	Helle-Moonika Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U210	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! Of course, first of all, as a woman, I am very happy that you have such personal joys ahead of you. As a mother of three, I can assure you that there is nothing better than the birth of a child and the raising of a child. So good luck, strength and strength for that! But when you come back to the point, you keep explaining that we do not want to help the people of Estonia in the crisis, and you blame the EKRE. Come on, you're going to have a crisis with the Estonian state with your stupid decisions, and then you're going to say that there is no other option than the money of the European Union. It was as if the world had run out of money, and we ourselves were completely infantile, so that we couldn't decide for ourselves where to get the money and how to make the most use of it for the benefit of the country and the people. And then you wanted substantive suggestions on where to use the money. But listen, there's no way. With this recovery fund, the European Union has already set out everything where this money must go. You have already made foolish decisions about both Estonian entrepreneurs and people who have suffered from the Corona in three months.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U211	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U212	Of course, I understand that you want to wash your hands of responsibility and give the European Commission the whole decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U213	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U214	Yeah. Here's the question. In that case, it seems that Estonia will no longer need a position of sovereign finance minister in the future, and I think you will like this perspective. Is that true?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U215	Thank you, Mrs. Helme! I have to say that we have had two and a half hours now, in the context of the second reading, to discuss these choices in substance and debate. Well, there are very few substantive proposals. If this is not, as has been said, health care, where the re-launch plan will be directed, and if it is not the competitiveness of businesses, if it is not digitisation, if it is not rural development, if it is not crisis-related vaccination, the cost of testing, then what is it, where should it be put? Where are the proposals that can be discussed in substance? This type of claim that someone is forcing, Europe is forcing, the European Union is forcing Estonia to put money in one place or another, just not true. Estonia is the European Union. I absolutely do not understand this constant attempt to place Estonia already now, I understand that this is your ultimate goal, but right now, outside the European Union, to claim that someone is forcing something from somewhere. Well, it's not like that. It is our choice that these areas, which are important for the future, must be invested not only in Estonia, but in the European Union as a whole. And we need to invest not only in Estonia, but also in the European Union as a whole. So, yes, first of all, the prerequisite for a substantive debate is to say what you are fighting against. What are the coercive decisions you're fighting against? We have already understood that tourism and agriculture are among them. But if you want to take money from them, where do you want to put it? And now the statement that we ourselves could still borrow on much better terms. That's not true. That is what I focused on and answered in my introductory speech. If we did not use this money now under the relaunch scheme, if we were to borrow for the same long period of time, issue bonds, these repayments would be considerably higher for us, up to 0.9 billion more. This is a trade that is detrimental to Estonia, and also economically harmful. So I am always pleased about the real-life debate, provided that it is also substantive, but then I also ask for the proposals that should be made.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U216	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U217	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I can assure you that I am still concerned about the rural fund and the tourism sector, especially the rural tourism sector. Ten million for micro and small enterprises, 25 million for tourism, including rural tourism through EAS last May, so it cannot be said that the previous government would not have supported. And the question isn't whether to borrow or not, it's about the conditions under which to borrow. But I'm not asking about it. I ask you if you have any information on the situation in other countries of the European Union. Is Estonia the last one and have others confirmed [their decision]? What is the state of play in [other] European Union countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U218	Thank you. It is very nice that you are also concerned about rural development, and it is understandable that you will continue to be so. However, the 63 million that will be added to the Rural Development Fund through the Re-launch Plan or the Re-launch Facility, you will also block this funding from your activities, in addition to all business support, which is also essential for businesses operating in rural areas. So I strongly recommend supporting this bill and not voting against the fact that the money also reaches rural areas through the Rural Development Fund. To date, if within a few hours nothing has changed, the entire national procedure has been carried out and [the draft guarantee fund] has been approved by 19 Member States from the European Union. It is now a question of the coming weeks when the rest of the Member States will reach the same distance. Let's say, by the end of May at the latest, all national procedures should have been completed so far that it is possible to make a decision to finally actually implement this relaunch plan in real life.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U219	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U220	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Minister, I would also like to congratulate you on your family growth. This is always the most important event that can happen in the family. Neither does the tactics, the attack is always the best defense. Fortunately, no one dies in this political struggle, and it can be taken with a little humor. But I have a question about what the government's backup plan is if now a Member State, such as Finland or Austria, considers that there is more revenue to be transferred to poorer countries in southern Europe that are in trouble, and some Member States do not approve of it. What do we do then?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U221	Thank you. Well, in the first phase, it's important that we do our homework. This is the subject of today's debate here and also the final result of today's vote. That's what depends on us. It is also quite astonishing in many other countries to see how even the very same people who took a positive stance on the recovery plan in our government a year ago and considered it important, are now suddenly starting to block it. So our plan A is to do our homework and do everything we can to prevent Estonia from becoming the blocker of this important restarting plan and the breaker of the unity of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U222	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U223	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I would like to reiterate here, in the light of the last questions, that part of the re-launching funds comes as support for Estonia, part as a loan, and in fact we can decide for ourselves whether we are using it at all. Regardless of whether and how and what we approve, it is up to us to decide whether or not Estonia will use these funds and where it will direct them. In the same way, if we do not want to pay a tax or payment to the budget based on plastic waste, then these waste must be recycled and the remuneration paid from the budget is much lower. In fact, Estonia has a huge opportunity to influence both its contribution and whether and how we use the funds that we can use after taking a joint loan from the European Union. But what we do with it is finally our decision. Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U224	Thank you. As regards the own resource paid by Estonia and the amount to be entered in the budget of the European Union, this is so that the easiest way to reduce this contribution to the budget of the European Union is by paying less, it is precisely because we are able to bring our plastic waste recycling and recycling to a new, better pace, so that we are no longer there among the bad countries that do not manage recycling in any way. So I'm pretty sure that, with the leadership of our Ministry of the Environment over the ages, this can be done perfectly so that Estonia's contribution to the European Union's budget starts to decrease from year to year, until it falls to zero. I think we should have this goal so that we can recycle [packages]. Decisions on where to invest. First of all, first of all, decisions on what is in the European Union as a whole the major changes that the European Union must make in order to remain in global competition are part of Estonia's decision making. It is also our decision; we are not located anywhere outside the European Union. And that is the focus of the digital and green revolution is important, not just for Estonia, but for the European Union as a whole. How it is implemented in each individual Member State can only be decided by the Member State itself. Once again, I hope that Parliament, in essence, will actually speak along and actually provide a meaningful input on how best to do this. So, yes, it is an Estonian decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U225	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U226	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! You have repeatedly stated here that this plastic package, which the European Union is introducing with this recovery facility, is not a tax and there will be no additional tax on people's businesses. But it seems to me that you do not share the basic fact of where resources come from for the state. If, according to you, the European Union imposes on the Member States own resources, which are essentially taxes and which must be paid by the Member States, it is precisely the people and precisely the companies that are paying for it, because Estonia does not have a printing machine to print more euros. Why are you blinding me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U227	Mr Päljaas, a good former colleague of Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs. This is the decision of each Member State, which it makes in order to pay as much as possible and year after year less of the fees for unrecycled plastic packaging. It is difficult for me to imagine a Member State which would not be motivated to do everything in order to ensure that the remuneration paid to the common budget of the European Union by the Member State from its national budget is ever lower. So is Estonia. If you have read this very thorough draft and also the draft explanatory memorandum both after the first reading and before today's second reading, I believe that you have certainly done so, then [maybe you have noticed that] there is yet another explanation of exactly what this is about. Indeed, the re-launch plan does not contain any new or additional taxes which would be payable or payable by a national or company of any Member State. This is the decision of each Member State itself and the solution that it must develop itself. Each Member State must decide for itself how it will pay this fee. If you have a proposal that we should introduce a plastic tax in Estonia, then come out with this proposal, we will discuss it. No one has made such a proposal at the moment, and it is not possible to discuss such a proposal at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U228	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U229	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. I will take up your line of thought that you developed before you spoke about the federalisation of Europe. You've finally come to the thought that the whole world will soon be one. In this context, I would ask, not that it is any surprise from the mouth of the Reform Party, that it wants a Euro-federation or a global world country, which is still your thoughts about the federalisation of Europe. Are you making it clear that the Reform Party, as well as your aim as the Vice-Chair of the party, is one big European country with common finance, common culture or culturalism, and everything is common? Please! Perhaps it would also be interesting to hear this at the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U230	Thank you. The fact that the European Union remains united and does not disperse, divide or make the same mistake that we in Europe once did not once, but more, but we will say recently when we have seen the whole historical perspective, it is in Estonia's interest. This not only concerns the economy, but also concerns security, and it concerns the day-to-day delivery of people. And that is certainly necessary and reasonable. The strength of the European Union, on the other hand, is when the different cultures, cultural spaces and languages have been adequately preserved. So there's no point in trying to put these two things in my mouth somehow violently. In the case of Estonia, as I said when I started my presentation, I absolutely believe that our interest and the existential need is to keep the European Union united. All kinds of attempts to create divisions and fragment work against Estonia's interests.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U231	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U232	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Dear waitress, (No further hearing.)
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U233	Good colleague, we can't hear you right now. Can you talk closer to the microphone, or maybe you could fix the microphone somehow?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U234	I'm sorry! Do you hear it now or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U235	I can hear you now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U236	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good performer! First of all, good or great family luck and mother luck! The question, however, is why the Estonian Parliament is now able to adopt this decision with such a slight result as 51 votes in favour. Northern neighbours, Finns, for some reason consider it so important that they need the approval of two thirds of Parliament. Can you tell me why?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U237	Thank you, good questioner! Finnish internal regulations can come from Finnish laws, Estonian internal regulations can come from Estonian laws. And, as has been repeatedly pointed out today, our constitution says when and for what decision what kind of majority is needed in Parliament. The commentary of the Constitution also explains that, regardless of whether it is a decision or a draft law, i.e. an act creating regulation in the same way, relating to state loans or property obligations, a decision should be taken by a majority vote. So this has already been referred to several times today. It is the Estonian laws that provide this framework.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U238	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U239	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I wish you all the best, like the previous speakers here, both in family life and in working life. But simply, since the Minister has said on several occasions today that I would ask you to make the proposals that you have, I would like to remind you that we had a whole range of 700 proposals. The content was different, but we wanted to discuss the proposals. Unfortunately, today we are in a situation where there is no debate and no negotiation of the content of the proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U240	Thank you. If you are now referring to these 760 amendments, there were quite a mood among them, yes, since the entry into force of the re-launch plan should be linked to the halāl killing of animals, for example, if I remember correctly. There was also a wish that the relaunch plan should not enter into force until Serbia, for example, became a member of the European Union. And there were still many of these proposals. I had in mind, however, substantive proposals and a substantive debate about where we could and should be able to invest, especially in view of Estonia's future, if you find that these places, in the proposed plan, which was launched during the previous government, and which has now been supplemented, do not need investment. That, in particular, was what I meant by a substantive debate. Indeed, we will soon have three hours here, but unfortunately there have not been any alternative proposals or additional proposals in today's debate, which would touch on the contents of this billion and a half.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U241	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U242	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good waitress! I'd still like to know what you think. The Gulf of Finland is one, the nations on one side and the people on the other side are kindred, the recovery package is the same, but on one side Parliament considers it so important that there must be two thirds to approve it, but we are quite relaxed. You say the constitution is like this, but everything else is actually the same. This choice is still the same, the people are a little different, but geography isn't much different. How do we make such big differences? Are we any more indifferent, or is this not so important, at least in your opinion? Don't Finns, fools, understand?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U243	Thank you. Once again, the laws in force in Estonia give us the rules. Here, both during procedural matters and during this debate, there have already been repeated references to the Constitution. In particular, § 104 provides for a list of situations where a majority of the composition is required. As a general rule, if a majority of the composition is not provided for, the law shall be adopted by a majority of the votes cast. So in our case, it comes from the law, the constitution. The executive edition of the Constitution also gives an answer to those who were a little confused here before and needed additional certainty. So it is the Constitution that gives this framework. And in Finland, as has been said, their own laws, of course, are what they must follow during their parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U244	Good Minister, there are no more questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U245	That's a shame!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U246	But that's the way it is. Now let's go to the negotiations. Erki Savisaar will be the first to speak. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U247	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U248	Please, eight minutes in total!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U249	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the watchers of the transfer! I am pleased that much has been said about the draft plan to relaunch the European Union has reached the final vote in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu. I congratulate the previous composition of the government that started the plan and the current composition, which continued with meaningful work. The proposal of the Centre Party Group is to adopt the draft today so that the government can submit the documents to the European Commission. I hope that the process of relaunching the plan will run at a rapid pace and that the planned investments will soon reach the people of Estonia. Now for the substance of the bill. The restart scheme includes various grants and Estonia has the possibility to borrow. These opportunities must be used boldly. Compared to other European grants and loans granted by the State, this is a favourable offer. It should be stressed that the repayment will only start in 2027 and last until 2058. As an average for the entire 32-year period, this means that Estonia will be guided by 5% higher contributions to the European Union budget than if the European Union had not taken out the loan. I support the European Commission's assessment that the re-launch plan is self-effective. This means that the additional revenue from growth accelerated by additional resources exceeds the additional burden in the form of an increase in the EU contribution. The resources of the re-launch plan are divided between the various funds with the aim of providing positive social and economic impacts through additional investments. The focus of the fonts is slightly different. In this way, the re-launch facility aims to support the exit of countries stronger than the crisis through digital and green turns and the implementation of structural reforms. Under the Facility Regulation, the re-launch facility will have to contribute 37% to climate targets and 20% to digital technologies. Entrepreneurs are one of the key target groups for green investment. This appropriation is intended to support the greening of enterprises through a dedicated Green Fund, the deployment of innovative and resource-efficient green technologies and the enhancement of resource efficiency, the enhancement of bio-resources and the deployment of hydrogen technologies. The aim is also to strengthen the electricity grid, boost green energy production in industrial areas and implement pilot energy storage projects. In addition, investments to improve the energy efficiency of apartment buildings and small houses are planned to be supported. In the transport sector, it is planned to support investments in rail and tram traffic related to sustainable mobility. In the area of health care, negotiations on financing for the construction of Tallinn Hospital are under way. We will keep our fingers crossed so that the talks will end positively for us, as this is an investment in the Estonian health care sector for the century. The modern treatment conditions of Tallinn Hospital would be attended not only by Tallinn, but by all residents of Estonia. A significant part of the recovery funding will be devoted to Ida-Virumaa. With this whole green turn, we're still saving humanity, not a narrow one. In implementing the changes, it is very important to preserve the well-being of the people of Ida-Virumaa so that they can find the motivation to stay home. There is also a wish for Estonians to find their way back to Ida-Virumaa. Ida-Virumaa must become an Estonian development engine that can provide a good business environment and an alternative to Tallinn and Tartu. The problem with the transformation of the oil shale sector is that it currently has very high-paid jobs, given the average wage in the region. There are, of course, no alternative jobs currently available in the Ida-Viru County region, but these opportunities will certainly arise. Oil shale will also continue to be used in energy until alternative controlled capacities of at least 1000 MW are generated. From there on, the use of oil shale is already dependent on the cleverness of our scientists and entrepreneurs. A new socio-economic model must be created for Ida-Virumaa, in particular by contributing to the development of the business environment. Estonia must make additional investments in future solutions, investments must improve Estonia's competitiveness on the global market and increase export capacity. We have never been in such a rare situation where there are so many financial opportunities. Thus, the Central Party Group supports the adoption of the draft and the introduction of a new impetus to the Estonian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U250	Martin Helme next. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U251	Can I have some more time, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U252	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U253	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! There was an exclamation in the debate that the EKRE was fighting against. I'll tell you what we're fighting. We are fighting against the European Union's hijacking of power in a clear and clear way. We are fighting against Estonia's state-of-the-art change, in principle. This is what this recovery fund will help to achieve. The very nature of the European Union itself will also, of course, change. And since, as we all know, we are always told that we are the European Union, our constitutional situation will change by approving this draft decision. All of this is justified on the grounds of awkward rhymes. It's just awful listening to what we can do for so-called foreign money. I'm sorry, are we a country, or are we a rake? If we want to build a Tallinn Hospital, we will build a Tallinn Hospital and, if necessary, we will take a loan. If we want to upgrade railroads or four-line roads, we will build railroads and four-line roads. For this we do not have to give up our independence, the last remains of our independence, which are already few and which have gone far beyond what was allowed in the referendum in 2003. Everyone knows, and very many are not hiding, neither Macron nor Lagarde nor von der Leyen are hiding, that the recovery fund is a decision that paves the way for the construction of the European Union, for the federalisation of the European Union. We all know, too, that this is not a problem for the Estonian Liberals. The Social Democratic Party, the Reform Party, the Centre Party see nothing wrong with the fact that Estonia is a province of the European United States, such a state-like arrangement with limited autonomy, with symbols of the state, but with major decisions, fundamental decisions, economic decisions as well as foreign policy decisions, for example, which diplomats are expelled or not taken elsewhere. But in this case, the most important fundamental principles of the Estonian Constitution no longer apply. The Estonian Constitution clearly tells us that Estonia is ruled by the people here, the Estonian people, the citizens of Estonia. If we have a broad decision on taxes, the one who received the most votes in the last elections in Germany, and if our foreign policy is to be decided in principle by the French, German and Spanish as a result of their agreement, then there is no point in the elections in Estonia. Then there is no difference as to whether we support one party, another party or third party, right-wing, left-wing, liberal or conservative, because it does not make any difference. Nor does it make any difference what we say to each other in this Chamber, whether we are going to be more polite, whether there are even more respectable and honourable and expensive colleagues, or whether we are going to be sharper. Because it doesn't matter, it doesn't change anything in the policy that comes to us all. This is what we are discussing here. This is what we want not to happen. [We want Estonia to remain a nation state according to the Estonian Constitution, an independent nation state. And when the European Union becomes something else, we do not want to be in this European Union anymore. We have not stepped there, we have joined the alliance of nation states. Some of us didn't even want it, but that's where we went with the people's decision. But no further away, with the people's decision. The story that if we do this recovery fund now, it's limited, it's 0.6% of GDP, it's lying to itself or the public. Everyone knows: if this recovery fund is adopted, the next step will be the common taxation of the European Union, because no Member State will agree to the reduction or substantial increase in their contributions to the common budget of the European Union. This is not what the European Commission wants either, because it has never been a matter for the European Commission to save the economies of the Member States. This recovery fund will not save the economies of the Member States. This has very little to do with the corona crisis. This is, in principle, a transfer agreement within the European Union. Some countries pay up and others can use it. The current main argument I hear from the government is that we are among those who pay in less than they can. For the next seven years, we'll be gone. I do not object to those people who want Estonia to be one province of the United States of Europe. But I believe that this cannot be done in violation of the Estonian Constitution. I do not think that this can be done without an in-depth debate in the public, either. Tap away such a decision here with 51 votes, and I really think that it is not correct in the legal sense either, if we basically hand over the sovereignty of Estonia, then we are basically dealing with the amendment of the Constitution. And if this were done urgently, it would mean four fifths of votes in the Riigikogu, not even 76, but 81 votes in the Riigikogu. Now here with 51 votes knock it out, having tied it to the government's mistrust, I don't think it's legal from any angle. We will, of course, try to go out to the Supreme Court with this dispute. But come to claim it doesn't change anything, well, it's just lying. It's just lying, and there's no way you can agree to it. I am absolutely not even going into discussions about whether the Fair Transfer Fund for Sasamune is beneficial or harmful for Ida-Virumaa. All herbal cords are harmful to Estonia, that is clear. This is economically harmful, politically harmful, etc. But right now we are not even talking about financial gain or damage, but we are talking about being allowed to give us money. And all we have to give back is our decision-making. But it's too high a price. We don't agree with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U254	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U255	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good listeners! The European Economic Recovery Plan requires large-scale public and private investment at European level to create jobs with higher added value, to eliminate the damage caused by the pandemic and, at the same time, to support green and digital priorities. Europe has the opportunity to take the lead here, thereby also ensuring a stronger position in the world. It has been agreed at European Union level that the response to the crisis must be comprehensive, rapid and sustainable. A temporary, one-off and exceptional economic recovery plan will help address the consequences of the pandemic and help the economies of the Member States to recover. According to the Ministry of Finance, Estonia's Resistance and Resistance Facility and additional funding will receive a total of 1.3-1.5 billion out of the various funding sources of the Re-launch Plan. But even more importantly with these big numbers, the joint resolution of the European Union will bring us back more than these one and a half billion euros. The point is that our economy depends heavily on exports and our major export partners, whose economy is also supported by this recovery plan, are in the European Union. Therefore, the well-being of our partners' economies will also contribute to the development of our economies. In order to relaunch the economy and accelerate development, it is necessary to move forward with a national recovery plan so that it can be confirmed and that this money can actually be mobilised. This is necessary so that we, as well as the European Union, do not lose our competitive advantage over other countries in the world. The preparation of the re-launch plan has been underway for almost a year. Last June, the Government of the Republic decided to approve Estonia's positions and decided that Estonia was also prepared to participate in this re-launch plan. After all, the Minister for Finance of the previous government was behind this decision, and it must also be stressed that this is a financial decision, which the Minister of Finance is essentially entitled to veto in the government. This was followed by an agreement at the level of the European state and of the Heads of State or Government on the essential elements of the relaunch plan at the Council meeting in July last year. At a more detailed level, however, Ecofin, the Council of Ministers of Finance and Economic Affairs of the European Union, was preparing a re-launch plan, where Estonia was once again represented by the previous government and still represented by the Minister of Finance. Thus, Ecofin dealt with the recovery fund regulation, the general plan and general conditions for its implementation, the conditions, procedures and deadlines for the processing and implementation of national funding plans. The Minister of Finance of the previous government of the EKRE personally attended the European Union Affairs Committee in order to obtain a mandate to represent Estonia there on these issues. For example, on 2 October, in the ELAK Protocol, we read that the Minister of Finance promised the Commission that Estonia would receive EUR 1.1 billion from the recovery fund. The Minister of Finance described the topics and decision-making positions of the Council of Finance Ministers. The Minister told us that his vision of practical implementation of the recovery fund is that the process of applying for money should be as simple as possible, quick, flexible, avoiding difficult additional conditions. The previous speaker mentioned Tallinn Hospital. The issue of Tallinn Hospital was addressed at the same meeting of ELEAK on 2 October. I asked the Minister of Finance of EKRE whether the Tallinn Hospital fits into the schedule. The Minister confirmed that the Tallinn Hospital is compatible with the conditions of the Rehabilitation Fund. The documentary certificate is available in the form of the ELAK protocol. Thus, the Minister of Finance of the EKRE not only participated in negotiating and deciding on the objectives and funding plans for the terms of the recovery plan, but also made decisions on the distribution of funds from the recovery fund. I would like to go on to say that, indeed, Estonia has a good chance of obtaining credit from other countries thanks to the small loan burden it has previously achieved, but it is known that it will be possible to obtain even more favourable conditions when borrowing from the financial markets through the European Commission. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U256	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U257	Unfortunately, we have seen in practice that Estonia's own loan money has gone not only to cover current expenditure linked to the time of crisis and justified, but also simply to cover current expenditure and to increase government expenditure. It is therefore appropriate to stress that rules and filters have been agreed for the re-launch plan to avoid the current budget expenditure being covered by the re-launch money. With regard to the re-launch plan, we are talking about the fact that the use of this money first requires a comprehensive national plan with agreed principles and objectives. For example, it has been agreed which activities should still meet the conditions, and that these lines, areas, objects selected for funding should also respond to the country-specific recommendations previously outlined in the European Semester. And, of course, the substantial contribution to green and digital transition must be assessed. I would like to talk here about another aspect that has not been addressed. This is the effect of the whole issue on inflation. As we know, the Re-launch Fund will also provide funding for the Member States of the European Union, which have a very high loan burden compared to us. In order for these countries to be able to take on new responsibilities in order to cope with the previous loan burden, the European Central Bank still needs to continue with the loose monetary policy and the asset purchase programme. If all this financing of the state's loan burden were to be at the mercy of the markets, interest rates would start to rise quite quickly. So the European Central Bank will probably have to continue to intervene in the asset purchase programmes. But here comes the inevitable impact on inflation and the first manifestations of inflation we have already seen. Although official forecasts do not yet show a significant acceleration of inflation, this risk exists and is real. To sum up, the Reform Party Group trusts the government, supports the re-launch plan and the decision to approve the own resources system. It is in our interest that the investment opportunities open up will support the development of the Estonian economy, the implementation of reforms and the rapid exit from the crisis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U258	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U259	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm asking for three more minutes right now, because I might not be able to hear the signal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U260	Okay, eight minutes in total, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U261	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear people of Estonia! I would start with a quote, it reads as follows: "We need independence precisely so that Estonia can take its path /----/ so that Estonia can be the smartest and the best. /---/ No bravery, no logic, no wit to me, it seems that no longer the unwavering rule of law. " Those words have been said by Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise, maybe a little in a different situation, but frankly, it fits like a fist in the eyehole. We are talking about a plan to relaunch the European Union. In my mind, there is the first thought that whether the European Union has stopped in the meantime, that we are going to make a restoration, or that it has somehow failed. Actually, this isn't a rebooting plan. To be honest, it seems to be a re-destruction plan. The programme of Estonia's democracy, parliamentarianism, representative democracy and the abolition of the Constitution. Today we have seen very clearly how the government is...... regulated and the rights and obligations conferred by law are dealt with in the Riigikogu in a simplified procedure, in the form of a decision, bypassing democratic decision-making and parliamentarianism and laughing funly at § 104 (15) of the Constitution. [[The connection's breaking up.]] There is a lot of talk about compliance with the Treaty on European Union. It's all right, it's all right, it's all right, it's all right, it's all right, it's all right, it's all right, it's all right, it's all right, it's all right, it's all What does the Treaty on European Union say? Article 268 of the Treaty states very clearly that revenue and expenditure in the budget must be in balance. Article 269, in turn, states that the budget shall be financed entirely from own resources, without prejudice to other revenue. Is it being followed? They say they will, at least the Minister of Finance will confirm it. But it's a question, it's an unsolved question. I would remind you that colleagues have already pointed out that this issue has been under discussion for a year. On 15 June 2020, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, when the European Union's so-called relaunch plan was discussed, Pille Pruunsild, Head of the European Union Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, said very clearly that so far the European Union budget has never been funded by loan money. The Treaties say that the European Union's budget is always balanced, that is, revenue and expenditure are always equal. Quite rightly, the question arises as to how we consider this current scheme to be compatible with the Treaties. Estonia certainly wishes to have an independent analysis of this. Where's the analysis? It's not. Where is compliance with the Constitution, those doubts that have been raised, that maybe [this bill] is not in accordance with the Estonian Constitution? It's not. Thus, there may be a contradiction with both the treaties of the European Union and the Constitution of Estonia. For example, let us recall the fact that on 12 July 2012, the General Assembly of the Supreme Court, which, by the way, split in half, almost one could say that 50% of the judges were on one side and 50% on the other, we are talking about the ESM, the European Stability Mechanism, the same General Assembly of the Supreme Court, in its decision No 3-4-1-6-12, stated, among other things, that the PSTS, the Act on Supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia since 2003, does not grant unlimited powers to delegate Estonia's competence to the European Union. The border exists, it is not unlimited. So if the wider delegation of Estonia's competences to the European Union and the wider violation of the Constitution take place, then it is necessary to ask once again the highest authority, i.e. the consent of the people, and probably to renew the Constitution. However, we are riding over it in the form of a decision, so bang!, by a small majority, 20, 30 or 40 people decide. First of all, what is this plan for relaunching Europe? That sounds so funny, to be honest. Okay. First of all, increasing the financial burden on Estonia, especially in a situation where more countries are likely to leave the European Union. And then what's going on? Then it will happen, as they said at the airport, when we have this health crisis: the latter will put out the fire. And that must be us, because we're so careful and good. Secondly, an additional and significant reduction in the independence of Estonian monetary policy will inevitably come with it. The restriction of Estonia's independence, the increase in the regulatory part of the European Union, will quite actually lay the foundation for the introduction of Union-wide payments, where Estonia can no longer participate. Minister of Finance Pentus-Rosimannus said that this plan will bring 1.3 billion euros to Estonia. These are then, you could say, Jewish shekels, this is then the reward that the extreme-liberal Reform Party and supported by the Maru-EU allies and anti-Globalism are willing to accept in order to significantly reduce the decision-making, independence of the Estonian state. This is the reward paid for agreeing to violate our own constitution, to make an act whose Latin name is nudum ius, it is a naked, empty, meaningless, influential law. Good people! Neither I nor any person who respects the dignity and independence of his country can vote in favour of this re-launch plan. I can't. I'm not doing this. Ladies and gentlemen, please do not do this either.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U262	Anti-Semiamets, please! Looks like we're not getting in touch with the Anti Polish Forest right now. Anti-Semiamets, please, put yourself back in line. We'll take Riina Sikkut until then. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U263	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Extraordinary times also require extraordinary activities. We have seen it both in Estonia and in the European Union, and unfortunately we have seen it both on the negative side and on the positive side. The re-launch plan we are discussing today is undoubtedly extraordinary and it is positive. The Social Democrats support the rapid investment of this money in Estonia, the use of these tools to deal with the pandemic and address future challenges. It is also undoubtedly necessary for Estonia that the European Union acts together, acts quickly and responds well. Not only in this crisis, but also in the future. Where this crisis money is used is an important decision. But, as we know, the decisions on the use of strategy papers, the use of structural resources, are largely the decisions of the government to draw up and make. Similarly, the government has provided a re-launch plan. The tilting of power towards executive power has left the Riigikogu with the task of holding a public debate. At the same time, the role of the Riigikogu should still be to consider and discuss Estonia's choices for the future, to set long-term goals, and this should include a re-launch plan. These are extraordinary tools designed to make changes, support the leap of development, influence Estonia's future. Now, if the Riigikogu could be more involved, would that make a difference? Well, the money's big, it's important, the choices are important. As the Minister of Finance asked in the debate on the re-launch of last week, if we have the greatest opportunity in history to give Estonia a new impetus to development, how do we use this money. If the Riigikogu were to be more involved, it would have one particular effect: reducing regional imbalances. We know that regional inequality has increased in Estonia. Studies so far show that the European Union's resources and their sharing have also increased these differences. But the fact that Estonia as a whole is connected, that we have public transport, that there is Internet everywhere, that there are public services and that they are accessible to everyone is undoubtedly very important for Estonia's long-term development. So that euro money does not happen the same as it has happened before, that stronger, more capable, more knowledgeable municipalities, businesses, organisations receive this support, but a large part of Estonia loses it. What is the re-launch facility planning? Do we have the risk of losing it? In the case of re-launch financing, we are talking about digitalisation of businesses and fast rail connections, but companies are located where they are. We digitize them where they are. And the train runs... [[We've lost contact.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U264	Good Riina! We've lost contact with you. Okay, now we're back.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U265	Where did I disappear?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U266	About 30 seconds ago. Connections.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U267	In short, what are the tools of the restart scheme used for? Businesses are digitised and these companies are located where they are located. A lot of money goes to the railroad, really fast connections, but the railroad goes from town to town. The faster this connection is, the fewer stops there are. The trams are in town, and even the hospitals are in town. So the money goes to a natural place, where it already is. But regional balance, to be able to work anywhere, live and get support if necessary, should be... I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U268	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U269	... the government's priority and undoubtedly also the Riigikogu's priority. Just as we know all these statements about the weakest link in the chain or the slowest mover, the same is true of this even development in our country. If we have regions that are lagging behind and where there are no public services or business opportunities, it will actually hold us all back, which will hold us all back. Today's issue is, of course, a tax issue. I'd like to ask you if we have GNP tax right now. Is there a tax based on the wealth of the country, such a pan-European and scary one? No, it's not. We do not have a European-wide tax based on total population income. It is simply agreed that the Member State's contribution will depend on the total population income and that the richer will pay more. If the European Union's major objective is to make a green light, then it is very good and, in fact, very necessary that other policies also contribute to achieving it. In this way, countries pay less to the European Union budget on the basis of their wealth, and part of the contribution depends on the amount of plastic packaging waste not recycled, in other words, the amount of the contribution depends on the environmental burden, on how much we pollute. The fact that contributions to the budget of the European Union are based on the number of wolves, the rate of participation in lifelong learning or the length of the sea border is not important in itself, but it shows what is considered to be fair, which is considered to be the basis for appropriate sharing. There is nothing to do with taxes here, but it shows that really the focus of the European Union, priorities are clearly shifting towards the implementation of a green turn, and this is also reflected in how the contribution is accounted for and shared. Personally, I am happy to say that Estonia not only supports initiatives that are economically beneficial to us, but also supports those things that help to achieve the greater goals, such as a new-based contribution. There's an opportunity to reboot! We want to use this money ourselves, and we decide how to use it. At the same time, I think it should be pointed out that it is not right that, in European Union policy, we are based on some principles, such as the use of loan money to achieve a development jump, the almost doubling of the budget for the loan money and the environmental burden of contributions. However, national fiscal policies hope to recover from the crisis by means of cuts and a balanced budget and by declaring a tax peace. Coping with people, a forward-looking economy and regionally balanced development is not just an interest of the European Union. This is still a national interest, and in fact all our financial resources should be directed towards the same objectives. We support the rapid implementation of the re-launch plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U270	Now let's try to get in touch with the Anti Polish forest, who didn't get it before. Please, Anti Division!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U271	[[Remote connection]] Any word?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U272	Yeah, now you can hear and see nicely. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U273	I'm asking for three more minutes right now!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U274	Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U275	And if there's a bad break, turn me off. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of the conditions under which Estonia entered the European Union. In the referendum in 2003, the Estonian people adopted the Act supplementing the Constitution. According to this, Estonia may belong to the European Union on the basis of the fundamental principles of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. In accordance with § 2 of the Constitutional Supplementation Act, Estonia's membership of the European Union applies the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, taking into account the rights and obligations arising from the Accession Treaty. However, I believe that membership of the European Union cannot and must not be easily equated with the fact that the things of the European Union are completely binding on themselves. The people had hardly given this mandate to the European Union when new demands and new issues started to come in addition to the Accession Treaty. It is expected that the people did not intend to subject themselves to all the new obligations that come...... but are outside European Union law. [[The connection's breaking up.]] Already during the debate on the European Stability Mechanism, several national judges asked whether, however, the European Union's stability mechanism was not, in essence, an amendment to the Treaties on the European Union, which would have required additional consent from the people. And the Supreme Court split in half. Ten judges of state found that yes, the ESM could be implemented, nine disagreed. Amongst the dissenting opinions it was noted that the General Assembly I am thinking of the General Assembly of the Supreme Court should have examined these doubts and assessed the limits within which the European Union may be transformed by instruments outside European Union law. That was already during the ESM debate. After all, our constitution laid down a special clause for the protection of sovereignty in order to prevent Estonia's independence and independence from being transferred solely on the basis of the standards of competence. At the same time, the sovereignty clause is an undisputed requirement to guarantee the right of the Estonian people to self-determination. Since § 1 (2) of the Constitution expressly provides for a ban on the time-limited disposal of independence and independence, there is no room for interpretation. A partial surrender of independence and independence is also a transfer of sovereignty. The problem, therefore, is the competence, i.e. who should have the right to decide in such a situation. This dilemma ends with the question of who is the real constitutional sovereign, whether the people or the Riigikogu as the current member of the Riigikogu, who could forever give up the sovereignty of the Estonian state to any extent for momentary political reasons. Is that right? In my opinion, it is in the referendum that we should be asking whether the people are willing to accept this kind of debt. Then we can get the legitimacy it needs and, if necessary, the Constitution will be amended. But right now it is highly doubtful and I think that the Supreme Court should discuss it. I hope that the Chancellor of Justice will provide the input necessary for this. The recovery fund will increase national collective debt and revenue transfers between countries, and Member States will be more closely linked to the European Union with tax obligations. This is, in principle, contrary to Article 125 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which restricts joint debt-taking and liability. Also, under Article 310 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, revenue and expenditure must be in balance. Under Article 122, exceptions may be made to the principles of the Treaties, for example as a result of natural disasters or other exceptional occurrences. These options have been referred to by the Commission, but many lawyers have found that this is not an appropriate provision. It is largely about creating a fiscal union within the European Union, and the prohibitions of the Treaties support this view that no Member State has made such an obligation when it joins the European Union. Christine Lagarde, President of the European Central Bank, has already proposed that the Fund should become a permanent part of the European Union. Member States wishing to do so will have the opportunity to set up a fund without establishing a European Union regulation, for example by means of an agreement between countries. Those who want to do it. This was also discussed, by the way, when Poland and Hungary opposed the rule of law established in the terms of the Fund. Since the Fund was established by a regulation of the European Union, it is not possible to leave it once it has been established and its funding approved by national parliaments. Finally, I repeat that I consider it very important that the Chancellor of Justice exercises his supervisory powers regarding the decision of the Refinancing Facility and directs the matter to the Supreme Court for discussion. But the right way would be for the transfer of sovereignty, for the surrender of sovereignty to avoid these constitutional contradictions, for the barrage of the Constitution, to give the people the right to give the right to a true sovereign, the Estonian people, to decide whether they agree with such matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U276	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U277	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I'm asking for three more minutes right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U278	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U279	Dear Riigikogu! The issue of the independence of the European Central Bank arose during the procedure for this draft. I would like to dwell on this because it is a very important issue, which also concerns the independence of nation states. The independence of central banks is, in fact, a very conditional term. Both the European Central Bank, the US Federal Reserve and other state banks that follow the same system are directly subject to the interests of private banks. The Heads of Central Banks come from the financial sector and very often go back there. This is a massive conflict of interest and due to a lack of regulation and, on the pretext of the supposed independence of central banks, it is often overlooked. The financial sector, in turn, is dominated by the world's largest banking groups, which are out of the political control of society. In order to understand the burden that the banking sector imposes on a simple taxpayer, the mechanism of action of the debt-based monetary system should be considered. Since the gold standard was abolished, commercial banks are required to provide only a small part of the loans issued with real-world assets as minimum reserves. In the euro area, this reserve ratio is, as far as I know, 1%, in the United States as much as 0% since last year. In doing so, private banks have been given an absurd right to issue money by borrowing, creating it from nowhere to a single button on the debtor's bank account. It creates an expanding bubble of credit money and the debtor has to repay it with real money. Of course, interest is added to this. And since lending from a private bank to a producer is the only way to obtain credit for large additional investments in most countries, it directly increases the prices of consumer goods and also encourages ecologically unsustainable overproduction. The debt-based monetary system is inevitably accompanied by inflation and a constantly growing gap between rich and poor incomes. Since the 1970s, the richest 0.1% of people in the world have raised their incomes by over 400%. Fear of hyperinflation forces the planet's economy to grow indefinitely with limited resources, while the smallest drop in global output is not usually at the expense of the financial sector's revenue, but is causing great suffering to the poorer population at the bottom of the pyramid. The bubble created by private banks will be covered up by the central bank. Unlike other debtors, central banks can print more money and cover old debts with new money. As a result, the world has more financial assets created with credit money than the value of the entire planet's movable and immovable assets. The world's debt burden has never been as high as it is now. But just as there are economic balance laws in nature that cannot be ignored forever. This global bubble of speculative investment, which has reached the bonds of all countries, must inevitably explode once. The irresponsible credit race driven by a commercial and central bank cartel is triggered by market forces seeking a fair balance, which should punish those who have created this bubble on an honest free market. This would mean that bankers, not taxpayers, would suffer the damage. In 2008, such a bubble exploded in the global real estate market and then threatened to explode in the sovereign credit market, when the southern part of the euro area was failing. This crisis was directly responsible for derivatives expanded into trillions by banking groups. It is often forgotten that US giant banks Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan provided hidden loans to Greece and Italy in the pre-crisis period, thus helping countries to forge statistics, without which they would probably not be allowed to enter the euro area. And in order to overcome the sovereignty of nation states at the time, a European stability mechanism was created and banks were given new money to pay off old debts. Resolving the inherent problems of the monetary system was postponed to wait for the next crisis. The crisis at the time has already shown that the interest of the banking sector is to ensure the continuation of debt disbursements, no matter how much socio-economic damage countries have to suffer as a result of this. After monopolising the credit issue process and threatening hyperinflation, the private bank cartel is holding the countries hostage. They have full control over the European Union's economic policy agenda. And it is in this context that the European Commission's loan plan must be seen. The purpose of this scheme is to guarantee the continuation of loan payments to the banking sector until 2058. In doing so, the financial cartel will also seek to ensure the functioning of the debt-based monetary system and the continued growth of the huge bubble in the credit market for the coming decades. Who will have to pay for the damage? European taxpayers, of course. To this end, the European Union requires the right to impose a European tax or to require States to make a larger contribution to the Union budget. This stimulus package could only lift markets temporarily. In fact, it would simply delay the mounting collapse of debt structures through bankruptcy waves and the collapse of collateral assets. Credit money created by a bank push can only be moved into the air, but it is not a substitute for the real production that has long since been moved from the Western world to Asia and developing countries. If the current debt-based monetary system is not reformed but crises are gradually being patched up, inflation will continue, which has hit the prices of financial assets and real estate particularly hard. The rise in real estate prices has also had a very negative impact on the demography of the Western world. The Estonian state as a whole can only escape from debt slavery if we reject this package serving the interests of large banks. We must exercise our right to veto this corrupt federalist scheme, which would give the European Union control over our monetary policy and financial cartels over our future. In order not to make Estonian entrepreneurs, Estonian workers and Estonian farmers the guardians of over-rich bankers, we must maintain financial independence. It is an essential issue of freedom and independence. It goes from national to family and individual. Are we really going to let Euro officials get us into debt and give them our decision-making powers? Do we accept that foreign large banks dictate our policies? Are we really going to maintain a monetary system that is screamingly unfair, mathematically and ecologically completely unsustainable? One free nation, who is the master of his country, should say no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U280	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U281	I'll have five plus three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U282	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U283	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, We have heard some very resounding and big words here about independence, sovereignty, leaving the European Union and what else. And it seems to me that this debate is gonna get us into a mess. We will use too strong words and slogans during the debate on this draft. When the UN adopted its position on the refugee pact, we did not like it, and we know that, in the long term, international law will also be created, so will we withdraw from the UN. If we delegate certain sovereignty to the European Union and we do not like the decisions that are being taken there, we will step up. If NATO demands that we have too much national defence expenditure and we cannot or do not want or do not want to contribute 2% or more, we will step out. Where does this road lead us? I will answer you: Russia leads to the bosom! Such a black-and-white and primitive debate is not constructive, and such a crazy cock box is not appropriate in the process of dealing with this draft. But now, specifically, to this bill. Regrettably, once again, the role of Parliament is very marginal, on the one hand, with hundreds of amendments tabled for the purpose of obstruction, and, on the other hand, the decision of the Government Coalition to link this draft to a vote of confidence has created a situation where Parliament has a marginal role. In this Chamber we do not have three readings; in this Chamber we cannot, in essence, discuss and propose amendments; in this Chamber we do not vote on amendments in substance. In this way, the only proposal by the Fatherland, which we have tabled and which has a very deep and substantial content, namely to increase Parliament's role in processing this draft and to increase Parliament's role in using the European Union's financial recovery fund, the Fair Transfer Fund and other financial resources, has been dropped, so that it is precisely the representative of the people who will have the opportunity to make a greater contribution. The minister representing the government said [on the amendment made in Italy] that the correct and reasonable proposal, but the wording was not exactly the same. However, according to the law, the government has the opportunity to take account of the proposals made in Parliament and then to incorporate the corresponding amendments or additions into the proposed draft. However, the government did not have this political will to take account of this proposal and to give Parliament a greater role in deciding on these matters in the future. That is very regrettable. What Group of Isamaa does not like about the content of this draft Riigikogu decision and what is being discussed more widely between Member States in the European Union? First of all, we do not like this vague, unmanaged joint loan, which will also be taken jointly by those Member States that would not receive loans from the market under such conditions, which would not be eligible, and, more importantly, they do not have to declare it as a commitment as required so far by the good budgetary rules of the European Union. Secondly, the source of repayment is unclear, vague both in substance and in time. This is not in line with the conservative or responsible fiscal policy that we, as Member States, should pursue individually and which the European Union as a whole should pursue in order to ensure a sustainable fiscal policy. We also do not like, in essence, the introduction of a new pan-European tax, which is very vague and unclear, but still essentially pan-European plastic packaging, where Member States are given a certain degree of freedom to behave differently, but a common commitment has been made. What, however, do we consider to be important about this draft? We consider it important that it is in the common interest of all of us that we quickly emerge from the economic crisis and quickly emerge from the corona crisis. This requires a concerted effort. It is important to implement the European economic recovery plan as soon as possible and to revitalise the economy through these funds. We should not stand in the way of this, as the only Member State, being the only Member State concerned about its sovereignty and feeling that the sovereignty of the Estonian state alone is being undermined when adopting this package. Let us make our criticisms, look for allies within the European Union and try to be more effective in implementing our policies in the future. But we should not prevent the adoption of this package. And secondly, we have been in the process of initiating this draft by today's opposition parties, the Fatherland and the EKRE. I remember heated debates within the coalition. Indeed, there were a great many questions, criticisms, differences of opinion and we cannot say that we fully supported this initiative. However, it must be said that we agreed on what happened there and, therefore, considering the pros and cons, but being critical of the fact that Parliament has been deprived of Parliament's role as a result of the national procedure, the Fatherland Group is not against this draft decision, but we are not voting in favour of it either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U284	Kalle Grünthal, please! Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U285	Dear Riigikogu! I am not going to talk about the constitutional problems here today, but I am going to go straight to the substance, especially to Ida-Virumaa and the planned green turn there. The government has justified that the heroes will empower Estonian talented people, preserve the environment and give a better quality of life. At first glance, it really seems that the greens offered are all noble and correct. New jobs and investments will bring EUR 340 million to Ida-Virumaa. In fact, the global transformation that aims to intervene in the historically established activities and development of Ida-Viru County is abusive to both the Estonian economy and the people involved in this sector. First of all, what about the workers in this sector? The fact that a large amount of money is allocated from the euro to create new jobs is not a sufficient argument. What's gonna happen to these people? Not all miners will undoubtedly become IT specialists or neurosurgeons. Thus, the euro money received will not prevent a future social disaster in Ida-Virumaa because the government does not have a plan to do so. People are left alone with their worries under the green turn. Secondly, the work experience of the historically established miners' dynasty is cut, i.e. in essence, the work experience and know-how that we really need is lost in history in Estonia. Today, the Minister of the Reform Party gave virtually no answer to my question as to what happens to our mineral resources and who will mine them later. We don't have the ability to do it ourselves. There was some incomprehensible talk about extracting those who could and could do it. Let me give you an example to compare. All of us know stories about ancient explorers who drove by the sea and discovered an island, went to the country, met natives, and there was a trade, and everything went as usual. Sailors came to the land, spread out their goods: mirrors, slices, etc. The trade began, pearls, furs, gold were received. That's how the business was done. Now jump today. What are our riches? I took the information available to everyone, which can be found on Estonia's mineral resources, because of my interest. The most famous of these are undoubtedly oil shale and phosphorus. The potential natural resources of Estonia's future are graptolitargilite, whose reserves are huge, estimated at nearly 60 billion tonnes. Most of it lies in the depths available for extraction, opening at the foot of the cliff of the limestone. Today, research is being carried out for the exploitation of this mineral resource, thanks to the metals it contains. In particular, uranium, zinc, molybdenum, vanadium and nickel are of interest. But did you know that Estonian graptolitargilite contains uranium? Its calculated amount is 5,67 million tonnes. It also contains 16,53 million tonnes of zinc and 12.76 million tonnes of molybdenum. Go, iron ore. The best known place to find Estonian iron ore is Jõhvi with its magnetic anomaly in Ida-Virumaa. Indeed, iron ore prices are currently low on the world market, but this type of iron oxide is usually also accompanied by metals such as zinc, lead, nickel or copper, and they are already of high value. The iron ore in the river may contain millions of tons of ore containing polymetals. Scientists have also claimed that gold, molybdenum, platinum, vanadium, and strontium are likely to be found in our earth. Natural gas is also known to be in Northern Estonia, and the price of this is 340 million euros. I'd like to use the Stampla of the Reform Party.'. Since we no longer have miners who can and can do this work, our natural resources, as national wealth, will obviously be mined by strangers, obviously foreign industrialised countries, because we have voluntarily abandoned our mining capacities. And the result? The result is that we land with our national wealth, which could develop and earn our economy, essentially at the same level as African countries, extract mineral resources and make profits from developed industrialised countries or foreign companies. Therefore, I dare seriously claim that the herbal cord is a malicious and ill-considered intention for Estonia, which is not in Estonia's interest. Obviously, the chain of command has come from somewhere in Europe, and the green turn has nothing to do with it. I invite all members of the Riigikogu to vote against this decision, especially the Centre Party. Our national wealth must not be exchanged for mirrors and slices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U286	Henn Põllamaas, please! Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U287	Honourable Deputy Speaker of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, everyone who is watching today's sitting! The Estonian Conservative People's Party stands for Estonia's interests, sovereignty and constitutional order. That is why we have tabled ca 700 amendments to prevent the re-financing package being approved. Instead of discussion and discussion, however, we can see how the coalition in power drives over both the opposition and the interests of the Estonian state and the people. The reasons why the EKRE opposes the approval of the recovery facility are very simple. Another attempt is to drag the people into the economic and ideological swamps in the shadow of beautiful slogans. Firstly, this is not a European Union grant or a gift, as we are being tried to show, but a loan that we have to pay back. The money we get has almost every euro on it. We cannot use these instruments where the need is greatest, nor can we have full discretion over them. We must follow the targets and limits proposed by the Commission. Looking at them, it is clear that the precepts are not about economic logic, but about ideological goals that lead to the closure of mines, power plants, the oil shale industry and everything connected with it, tens of thousands of unemployed, the social and economic disaster in Ida-Virumaa and the profound dissatisfaction that can explode in a very sharp way. This gives the Kremlin the opportunity to take advantage of the situation in order to undermine our security, or even the pretext for coming to the aid of his fellow countrymen. The government will also contribute to this by reducing the defence budget. Estonia needs investment to improve the productivity and competitiveness of entrepreneurship. Most of the money, however, is not intended to restore the economy and ensure development, but rather to support expenditure that does not support it. Secondly, a loan through the European Union may not be cheaper than what we could take directly from the market. As the loan markets have favourable times, Estonia could get the loan even more cheaply. And if not cheaper, without the Commission's precepts. During the previous government, we also took out a loan, which is what must be done during the crisis. Then the opposition at that time fiercely opposed it. Today, however, they forcefully want to borrow on bad terms and terms. At the same time, the country's budgetary strategy intends to make major cuts, abandon the necessary investments that will boost the economy, build four-line roads and fill the gaps in defence capacity, and go to children's, families' and general well-being. In other words, return society to the previous crisis, which resulted in thousands of businesses and tens of thousands of people being forced to leave abroad as a result of the wise management of the Reform Party. The only difference is that it was not yet said publicly that their people would be replaced by migrant workers. Thirdly, the recovery facility ignores and amends the fundamental principles and practices of the European Union as a sovereign state union. Such borrowing is not permitted by the European basic documents or the Estonian Constitution. Financial and tax matters are solely the responsibility of the Member States. Unfortunately, in the case of each Commission decision, directive and regulation, we see how decision-making is increasingly being taken by determined Member States to Brussels. In this case, too. The European Union has no right to impose taxes on Member States. However, the recovery package introduces a pan-European plastic charge which clearly violates these principles. The fact that it is called an own resource or an additional payment to the budget of the European Union is a tax paid by the Member States and thus by people and businesses. The introduction of digital, coal and other taxes, for example, is also being discussed. However, taxes can only be imposed in Estonia by the Riigikogu, not the European Union, and this is done by law, not by decisions like today. Fourthly, if some Member States do not pay back debts taken together for any reason, then all others will have to pay their share. This risk is not hypothetical as the number of countries with a debt burden above 100% of GDP and already close to 200% is not low. Given that at least five countries of the European Union have faced huge defaults in the last ten years, the risk is very real. In the case of Greece, we have already been, and still are, a taxman. The debt gap of strangers may turn out to be many times greater than the amount that we receive at all. Where would Estonia get the money for this? The forest used to be the cover of the Estonian kroon. Should we cut our land to the end in this case? No, thanks. The government has tried to circumvent these matters in the form of both the public and the Riigikogu as a thief. There has been no substantive debate. Against this background, it is embarrassing to recall the spin-off of the Minister for Finance when, for the first time, he was forced to answer the questions of our ambassadors when he presented the draft approval of the Refinancing Facility. We did not receive clear and reasoned answers. Neither did it today, because they are not, and not only in this matter, the failing government does not. All we heard was condescending accusations and lies. Troublesome lies. The activities of EKRE are aimed at essentially discussing issues in order to prevent the coalition's brutal road roll policy and to make a useful decision for Estonia, i.e. to refrain from participating in the recovery fund that harms the interests of our country and the people. We will continue to obstruct such things, which are quite clearly against Estonia's sovereignty and decision-making or in some other way against economic development, democracy, freedom of expression and freedom of thought. The government that is building today's police state decided to cheat and link the approval of the rehabilitation fund to the government's vote of confidence and to drive over the opposition again, without even listening to the arguments of the others. Following the adoption of the decision, it will no longer be possible to discuss the matter or to withdraw Estonia from the recovery fund after accession, even if the government has a moment of clarity. The discussion has been killed, the bridges have been burned and the retreat is no longer there. Is Estonia worthy of such a government? Absolutely not. I call on all responsible ambassadors to distrust the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U288	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U289	Ladies and gentlemen, This decision, which the government is asking us for confidence to adopt today, is a concrete step towards the creation of the United States of Europe, a long-standing goal for European federalists. As an Estonian citizen, as a member of the parliament of the Republic of Estonia, as a member of this political community, who finds its presence in the Centre Party, I am opposed to this goal. I think it's harmful. I consider it harmful to Estonia, harmful to Europe in every possible way. But today's fight for a re-launch plan and a system of own resources, using modern metaphors with a view to 9 May, is not the battle of anti-federation Stalingrad, rather Kharkov's. Accepting today's decision is a painful and severe loss. But not irreparable. Moreover, we are facing much faster and more important battles, such as the law on trade union income tax incentives, such as allowing extended sector agreements, protecting and improving the position of trustees, real guaranteeing constitutional right to strike, rising wages for rescue workers, everything else. Of course, the federalists would want us to kill our leg right here. But you don't have to give them the luxury of deciding what our red line is, where not one step backwards. We non-federalists choose our own battles and the red line be this place where the damage to Estonian workers becomes irreversible. So, yes, we have to accept a temporary loss today, but we are confident that we will soon achieve others and much more important victories. Good luck to all of us!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U290	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U291	[[Remote connection]] We had a several-hour ping-pong here now. We cannot call it a debate; we cannot call it an analysis. Paul's woodland was pointing very well. Where's the Chancellor of Justice's analysis? Where is the analysis of how this draft is compatible with the Treaties? Where is the analysis of how this is compatible with our accession agreement, etc.? These tests are not available. And then we are told that our obstruction did not allow for a substantive debate. Sorry, we saw this obstruction when we wanted to do the marriage referendum and the Reform Party asked very substantive questions, including whether we should leave the European Union. I can no longer remember who these signatories were, but such a proposal for leaving the European Union came from the Reform Party. Like the proposal to leave NATO, as well as the proposal that we should go to Russia's sphere of influence, as well as the proposal that we should go to the Russian Federation. Were these substantive proposals? I tend to think, following the way the Reform Party has been acting for three and a half months, that yes, they were their substantive proposals. We bring it all into daily politics, bring it into the context of reacting to the demonstrations by Toompea, bring it into the context of confiscation of the milk dummies in the Liberty Square, bring this helplessly old picture of the pants into the context of excruciating. Yeah, they were substantive proposals, that's what the Reform Party thinks. And that's what we heard today. That's what we heard today. I was very heartwarming to hear that the representative of the Reform Party was very concerned about the tactics we use when we go to local elections. I'm sorry, but you didn't bite it. I dare say we're good enough politicians that you won't bite it until we come out with our real tactics. Now we're coming back to yesterday. The way the current government behaved yesterday was a disgrace! The way the militia were ordered to wear civilian clothes was a silent rehearsal of surrender. Think about it, Secretary of Defense Laane, think about it, Minister of the Interior Jaani, Prime Minister Kallas! It was a silent surrender. Do we also go to defend Estonia when we really need to go to defend Estonia when we walk by a wall edge in civilian clothes like this? That's exactly what you're thinking. That is exactly what you think, because you believe that American paratroopers, despised Hungarian airmen, despised Polish tanks must come to protect Estonia. They must come to protect Estonia, but we will put on civilian clothes and walk along the wall edge, because it is European and NATO. And now we're coming to the same recovery facility. This recovery facility is treason. It's against the Constitution. It gives away the sovereignty of Estonia. This assumes international commitments for Estonia that cannot be made without the relevant legislative proposals being dealt with in Parliament, not by a draft decision imposed by the coalition by a vote of confidence. What this coalition does is treason. And now I'm going to tell you something very important, dear friends. Treason is a timeless crime and you may be out of the government a long time ago, this coalition may have flown into seven pieces, but your crime as treason will not expire and you can be held accountable. Now, of course, you giggle. You imagine that you will remain in power forever. And you imagine, of course, that you're safe with one of the police generals, dogs and riot policemen from time to time and forever. I think you're wrong. I'm convinced you're wrong. What you are doing now paves the way for the break-up of this statehood. Why? Because basically, this tank crossing from Parliament and the opposition in Parliament can only bear one fruit. If politics can no longer be carried out in Parliament, then politics will go to the street. Politics has already come to the street.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U292	Do I give you extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U293	When the rule of law no longer works, when the Chancellor of Justice is... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U294	We'll give you three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U295	... when the Chancellor of Justice is silent as a stocking in this matter. The president who loves to take the powerful poses, how the word is free, and whatever, is silent as a stocking. If the Supreme Court turns a blind eye, and if we now make a legal move to this matter and challenge today's compelling decision, then we can be quite certain that the footage chosen by the deep state will decide everything as it should, and thus qualify themselves for the list of traitors. It is now a game of our statehood, a deep spitting of the soul on those people who are not, how I say, puppets, puppets, puppets who are not pops and upstarts, because pops and upstarts are the ones whose eyes shine as soon as they see any coin. What we've heard and seen right now, it's exactly a poppy and uppity to shine your eyes and stretch your fingernails towards you. We get the money, we get the money! You really don't want the money? I don't want money. We want freedom. We want a decision-making power. What we want is for the Estonian people to say, as their constitution states, that we are the highest authority in this country and we cannot be overrun. And when you cross us, it's only a matter of time before we figure out how we've been deceived. And we fight back. Let us recall John Fitzgerald Kennedy saying that one person can be fooled forever, but it is never possible to deceive all people forever. Remember that! It is not forever possible to deceive all people. You're gonna try it, but you're not gonna make it. We're resisting with people who find out at one point that they've been cheated, they've been deceived by big, unprotected promises of money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U296	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U297	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I did not want to speak, but a moment ago I received an answer to the morning question why the Estonian Defence Forces were not allowed to move in their uniforms around the military cemetery last day: in order not to upset the people bringing red carnations. The answer that came from the Department of Defense and the Defence Forces was shocking to me and, of course, it's covered in a mystery, so I can't read it to you. I'm thinking about what happened in early April at Toompea, where dogs and special forces were brought up and told about some kind of threat to constitutional order. Put these things together. I am now coming to Mr Oudekki Loone, who said this is a painful moment, but it must be accepted, it is a temporary loss. Guys, this isn't a temporary loss. There is no need to talk about sovereignty in this Chamber lately. Remember, once there was a declaration of sovereignty. And when we tried to remember it a few years ago in this hall, we didn't fly high. It is said that sovereignty is in the way of time, and that is something else. When I asked the honourable Minister today why the northern neighbours, the Finns, their Parliament needs two thirds of the votes of the MEPs to approve the same thing, the answer was that our constitution is more relaxed and not so much needed. But the content is the same. The Gulf of Finland that separates us. We are brothers, we want to make a tunnel, we want Tallinn and Helsinki to be together. And two so different shores, two completely different attitudes. Finns take this re-package seriously. I remind you, money always comes in handy, and how much money comes in. But everything has a price. What's with the total greens? I'm not gonna tell you what it really means. It's a slogan you've been hearing lately. I've been talking about it 30 years ago, writing a lot, but now there's only one pedal to be trampled on, and everyone who speaks back is told they don't share the punch. Today's decision is very important. And I do not think, like Mr Loone, that this is a painful decision, but a temporary loss. But that's all I'm saying. Our group will certainly vote against this decision, and I will certainly vote against it too. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U298	Thank you, there are no more requests to speak in the negotiations. The draft decision will be dealt with in two readings and we will now have a final vote. For the final vote, it is stated that this draft must be supported by 51 votes. Let's go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu! As this is a draft relating to a vote of confidence, the amendments cannot be voted and we will go to the final vote. I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, entitled "Accepting the financing of the European Union's re-launch plan and the Council of the European Union's decision on the system of own resources" 353. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U299	There are 63 ambassadors in favour of the draft, 19 against, no abstentions. The bill has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U300	Today's agenda has not yet been exhausted. Now I'm opening a free microphone. Mart Helme, please! Free microphone is five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U301	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I have not been a very diligent user of the free microphone, but today is the day in which I felt that this whole debate, but not only this whole debate today, but so much has gathered on my soul in the last three and a half months that I would like to share these thoughts a little bit. Above all, it has gathered on the soul that we see how depressing qualitative changes have taken place in Estonia in a very short period of time, in three and a half months. These relate in particular to the fact that the role of Parliament has been significantly reduced over a period of three and a half months. They concern Parliament being flooded with drafts aimed at further reducing Parliament's role. I am thinking here of the Nets, the Media Services Act, the Emergency Act, the planned hate speech law, and there are some other drafts in which, as a whole, there is no problem, but where something has been implanted, which is also aimed at creating, as Mr Lotman says, the administrative state in Estonia, not the rule of law, not the parliamentary republic, but the administrative state. We also see the rally of the events of the last few months on Toompea and moving down to Vabaduse Square, the silent surrender of yesterday before the celebrations of 9 May, how the Estonian state is slowly and quietly slipping away from politicians in the hands of hidden faces and unnamed officials. Because if we ask who made the decision or the other one, the Prime Minister will tell us that the police acted at their discretion. In other words, the police did what they thought was right without interfering with the police with political leadership and civil control. When we asked who decided that the Defence Forces had to move in civilian clothes, we were informed that this decision was made by the battalion commander. It's a very serious story. It's a very serious story. Is it the case that, with the symbolic meaning of people's rights, including constitutional rights, decisions are made at the level of middle-level officials in the country? Battalion commander, some kind of police, I don't know, department chief or what division there is, not even at the prefect level, but at an even lower level. This is absolutely incomprehensible and unacceptable. Why do we need an election? What do we need political parties for? Why do we need election programs? Why do we have all the TV fights? It all costs nothing, because the Prime Minister comes and says, "I don't know anything about it. Yeah, I read a memo, but the police decided on their own. "The Secretary of Defense says, "No, I have nothing to do with this, it was a battalion commander-level decision." Doesn't the battalion commander have a relationship with the Department of Defense? Doesn't the police have a relationship with the Prime Minister? It is as if the government has no mandate to implement its political agenda, unless it needs to push through something that has come from the European Commission or from some of our so-called allies, who basically exploits us only in their own interests and only on those occasions when it has been found in the capital that we could play a role in this matter. This is not even an administrative state. I am not talking at all about the rule of law, because if we go to court, we will be able to take decisions that are exactly in line with this ideology, which has been declared to be the only right one. This is not the country of Estonia, which was born in 1991, and which adopted this constitution, according to which we should live in the theory of today. It's gathered upon my soul. I wanted to say it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U302	Thank you. Peter Ernits, please! Five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U303	[[Remote connection]] Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, What would I say? This morning in the Special Committee on State Budget Control, we asked the Minister of Defence who ordered the Estonian soldiers to hide their uniform and move like the fifth column around the Cemetery of the Defence Forces. Recently, I received the answer - not to irritate those who bring red carnations. In the morning, we talked about another very important thing. We talked about how we, ladies and gentlemen of the Riigikogu, have become a rubber stamp. We talked about the clarity and comprehension of the state budget. The Auditor General Holm here quoted the annual speech of his former colleague Oviir to the Riigikogu, in which he says that it may happen that the government is asking for money for a horse, but it buys a donkey instead. At this morning's meeting, the Auditor General's assessment that the situation has become even more confusing. He spoke, for example, of the Ministry of Justice's budget and said that it was perfectly polished, extremely ascetic, with certain baroque exaggerations. They're talking about some 3,000 euros, only some kind of fridge thing has been unwritten. No one understands the rest, including us. And it's getting worse. Now, given this context today, what we voted for or against, this is one of the pieces of this big puzzle. We have turned into a.. and increasingly forceful one. I mean, us as decision-makers. Decisions are made by someone else. At best, the members of the Government of the Republic know what's behind the numbers, but always not even them, let alone us. We're being given an ascetic budget, but we don't know exactly what's behind it. Equally urgently, some kind of draft, some kind of decision is being pushed through. And everything seems normal. But it's not normal, it's not normal in any way. In an independent country that loves to say that it is sovereign, it is recommended that its soldiers do not wear their uniforms if they move near the sanctuary on an important day for the subjects of another country, because it can irritate someone. At the same time, when people gather out of concern about the possible emergence of a police state, dogs and special forces are brought out. The Minister of the Interior and the chief of police speak a completely different story. Whoever's lying, who's telling the truth, we don't know that to this day. And who's responsible for all this? The same question of sovereignty seems ridiculous. Few try to talk about it and also to think that we are still a sovereign nation state. But I think it's a question of being ashamed, of being ashamed and not talking about all this and not listening to it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-10_U304	Thank you. There's no more calls. The sitting is adjourned.
