ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U1	Thank you, Minister. At least there's one question for you. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U2	Minister, thank you for this report. Indeed, the Spanish, Cypriot and Greek programmes can also be considered as such an effective action in the short history of the ESM, but I still recall that the debt crisis was solved mainly through the intervention and asset purchase programmes of the European Central Bank. I am asking you how you will assess how big debtor countries, such as Italy, cope with their debt burden, if, indeed, next March, the European Central Bank will withdraw its asset purchase programme and this will push interest up. How do you assess this risk?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U3	Thank you, good questioner! This is certainly an interesting and important question. I must say that this does not relate to this draft. But the fact that very high levels of debt do not make it easier for countries, I think, regardless of how this draft is dealt with. That is indeed the case. But if there should be a situation that at some point a country needs support from the ESM again, then of course all the criteria that the state has to meet are quite thorough and complex. These assessments are indeed the result of a very thorough consideration and one of the criteria that is being assessed is certainly the capacity to service the debt. But, in the broader sense, on the question you have asked, we can certainly continue to debate, but outside the debate on this draft, because it really does not agree with this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U4	Igor Kravtšenko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U5	Thank you, good Chairman. Madam Minister! Looking at the time, I'll try to ask you briefly. Has the COVID pandemic led to corrections to the ESM reforms?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U6	Thank you. No, no corrections have been made to the ESM reforms. In general, it has to be said that the ESM was actually ready to implement the COVID instrument, which was agreed at the height of the crisis period, which was last spring. It was a credit line of EUR 240 billion, opened as a support for the pandemic crisis and aimed at providing support in the form of loans for direct and indirect healthcare, treatment and prevention costs caused by the COVID-19 crisis. This credit line was not used. It is true that applications can be submitted until the end of next year, i.e. the end of 2022, but as of now, it has to be said that no country has had to use this instrument. If this is necessary, the ESM itself will be able to finance this particular instrument by issuing social-oriented bonds. Well, that was a change that occurred during the corona crisis with regard to the ESM.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U7	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I now request Dmitri Dmitriyev, Member of the Monetary Commission, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed this draft on Tuesday, 16 November. The purpose and content of the draft act were also presented by the Minister of Finance, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, and the members of the committee had some substantive questions. For example, Commissioner Aivar Sõerd asked whether the decision to reform the ESM was taken at the level of finance ministers during the previous coalition and, furthermore, if the ESM has made a profit over the years, whether any changes in the distribution of profits have taken place. On top of this, Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus replied that this has been a cross-coalition issue that has started quite a few good years ago. In particular, this change started in 2018; in November 2020 the Government of the Republic has confirmed the positions of the Government in advance of the Council of Finance Ministers for the last time, and no changes in the distribution of profits are foreseen. Member of the Commission Jürgen Ligi asked about preventive support instruments, on which the Minister for Finance replied that Member States would have the opportunity to receive support from the ESM before any major problems and serious difficulties arise in lending money. The reform clarifies the process of monitoring compliance with the eligibility criteria. Andres Kuning, Head of the European Union and International Cooperation Department of the Ministry of Finance, added that the capacity and capacity to service debt is a universal principle that actually applies to all ESM instruments. If anyone wants support, the ESM must provide this security to the shareholders on condition that this loan also returns. In conclusion, it was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 24 November (consensus), that the first reading be closed (also a consensus), that Mr Dmitri Dmitriev (consensus) be appointed representative of the lead committee and that the deadline for the amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 2 December (which was also decided by consensus). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U9	Good waitress, thank you very much for this very thorough presentation. There are no questions. I'm opening negotiations now. Martin Helme, representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, will take the floor via the Internet. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U10	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I'm asking for three more minutes just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U11	Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U12	The ESM, the same European stability mechanism, was established in 2012. Our party was not in Parliament at the time, but we were already vehemently opposed to it at that time. Estonia, Estonian taxpayers, Estonian people were placed indirectly and directly responsible for the debts of others in order to save our euro. It was decided to expand the use of the money collected by ESM in 2018 at that time the Estonian Conservative People's Party was not in the government, and the entire decision was made at government level. This change will make it easier to use the ESM money and increase the possibility that it will be used. Simply put, the possibility of us losing our money is growing considerably. When I was in government, I opposed this same reform of the ESM at my first meeting of finance ministers. I opposed extending the use of money and simplifying its use. Unfortunately, the next day, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas announced that he would cancel my blockade and that the reform would go on. At this point, I underline that the Prime Minister, who is the highest negotiator in the European Union according to Estonian rules, made his position pay despite my opposition. Later, I refused to attend the European Union finance ministers' meetings, where the decisions on the ESM were taken, because I did not agree to approve it. But it was clear that Prime Minister Ratas would give the Council its approval either way. On the other hand, I repeatedly stressed both in the government and in the coalition council that our party does not support the ESM itself or the ESM reform, and this must also be taken into account in ratification. By the way, the representatives of our party in the European Union Affairs Committee also opposed the reform of the ESM when we were in the government. After all, our opposition is confirmed by the explanatory memorandum, which states discreetly that the Treaty amending the ESM Treaty was signed by the rest of the countries on 27 January, including Estonia on 8 February. These two different signing dates are there because Estonia's previous government had not given the mandate to sign. Thus, our party's position has been very consistent and clear, unambiguously negative with regard to the ESM at all times. We also opposed the resolution fund of the European Union Banking Union in 2016 when it reached the Riigikogu. This has not required Estonian taxpayers' money, unlike the ESM, but it is a scheme to channel money collected through the Guarantee Fund for the protection of Estonian depositors into a large pan-European pot. This is the scheme that collects EUR 60 to 70 billion across Europe and is sold to us with a story that, if necessary, it will also save Estonian banks. But we are realists, show me a person who speaks with a serious face that this money will eventually help the banks operating in Estonia, not some Mediterranean country or German and French banks, and I'll show you a fool out of your mouth. All the three drafts that we now have here in a row are dealing with the same thing, 479, 480 and 481, so it makes no sense for me to go over the same thing for all of them, and it is enough for me to make one speech now. This is a close, sometimes very technical and complex story for all these drafts, which is often written in the language of the European Union. It is therefore necessary that we speak in a very simple language which is wrong here. The wrong thing is, we're even in the ESM. The wrong thing is that we have poured the money from our bank depositors into the Big Peeter bag, listening to the fools talk, so we protect the Estonian depositors. It is also wrong that these two funds are now being put together and that the possibility of mobilising the funds in them has become considerably simpler and that the area of use has been broadened. Simply put, the terms of the very large-scale financial obligations accepted by the various solemn assurances are now amended ex post as if through the back door, retreating from those assurances and promises that were made at the time. This will make the purpose of using money more widely and simplify conditions. And we're talking about a lot of money. We are talking about the EUR 140 billion, perhaps even EUR 150 billion, of the ESM and the fund's money being put together. We are now talking about rescuing large European banks directly through the ESM with taxpayers' money. With our money. That's the whole point. It is also wrong that we see very serious problems piling up over the European economy and the world financial system. This reform is trying to keep the system running a little bit more on print money, less interest and a growing debt burden. Even if the current financial system were to collapse, 150 billion will, of course, not help anything, just that we have become a very large piece poorer. So that's also wrong. Even if we were in favour of this reform, it will not help in the event of a crisis, in the case of a really big crisis. No person with conscience can approve of this reform. Even if it's never used, he's basically wrong. Conservative People's Party proposes to reject the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U13	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading be closed. At the same time, we have received another proposal. This is as follows: The Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party proposes to reject the draft Act on the ratification of the Treaty amending the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism initiated by the Government of the Republic, 479 at first reading. Let us begin the preparation of this vote. I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party to reject draft 479 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U14	With the result of 17 votes in favour, 42 against and no abstentions, the proposal was not supported. I therefore set the deadline for submitting amendments to draft 479 including 17 December at 5.15 p.m. The first reading of Bill 479 has been completed and the 26th item has also been closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U15	Let us move on to agenda item 27. This is the first reading of the draft law amending the Act on the ratification and implementation of the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism initiated by the Government of the Republic. And on the Internet, I give the floor to Secretary of Finance, Keit Pentus-Rosimud. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U16	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Really, we're moving forward fast. With regard to the previous draft, I had the opportunity to present the amendment of the ESM Treaty due to the reform of the ESM, and I have already proposed ratifying the Treaty amending the ESM Treaty, and the draft that is currently before you is quite directly linked to the previous one. The Act on the ratification and implementation of the ESM Treaty, adopted by the Riigikogu in 2012, contains, as the name suggests, a number of implementing provisions on how the government and the Riigikogu cooperate on ESM issues. With regard to the amendment of the ESM Agreement, there is now a need to adjust and revise these procedures slightly. Overall, the cooperation on ESM has worked well so far, and the government's conviction is that it will continue to do so. I can also confirm that the Riigikogu remains involved in all important issues. In making our proposals, we in the government were based on the weight of a specific decision, in particular whether the decision has an impact on the obligations of the Estonian state, but also on confidentiality requirements and time criticality. Thus, only with the mandate given by the Riigikogu on the basis of the decision of the Riigikogu, Estonian representatives can vote on the boards of the ESM, firstly, when deciding on the takeover of the obligations of the EFSF and the issue of related shares, and secondly, when making the decision to launch the resolution fund's defence mechanism, as well as when setting the maximum limit for the resolution fund's defence mechanism. These decisions cannot be taken until the Riigikogu has approved them separately and given them a mandate. In the case of the introduction of ESM-preventive credit lines, the proposal is such that the Riigikogu's mandate could be given to the representatives of Estonia by the European Union Affairs Committee, as the terms and conditions of these instruments, as explained in the introduction of the previous draft ESM Agreement, will be standardised. In the case of a credit line with pre-conditions, the Memorandum of Understanding is no longer concluded and the content of the credit line with additional terms is limited and then it is simply not appropriate to take a full decision in the Riigikogu. Similarly, it is proposed that ELAK be a mandate giver if there is a situation where it is desirable to delegate some decisions relating to the implementation of the safeguard mechanism from the Board of Directors to the Executive Director. The implementation of the safeguard mechanism for specific resolution cases always requires very urgent decision-making, mostly within 12 hours. In addition, there are always very strict confidentiality requirements. If these decisions have not been delegated to the Executive Director or are outside this scope, we propose informing the Riigikogu of the decisions of the Board of Directors, written notification. These are proposals that the government considers balanced and ensure that the Riigikogu is informed and directly involved in making important decisions. On this draft too, I would like to thank the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu, which unanimously supported and supported the proposals as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U17	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions too. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U18	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In the case of a precautionary conditional credit line, the aid is conditional on compliance by the State with the criteria for obtaining the aid. Well, let me ask you this. At the moment, these criteria have been suspended, because of the crisis, but you have talked somewhere, I have remembered that these criteria will be restored at some point, perhaps the next or the next year. I'm asking again about Italy. In Italy, there are banks in difficulty, there are still banks that have not gotten on their feet since the previous crisis. How many years does it take for Italy, a large country to qualify? Perhaps when will it begin to meet the deficit criterion and the debt criterion so that it can qualify for aid after exiting the crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U19	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I see that Italy is really on your mind today. As the issue concerned a precautionary conditional credit line, despite the suspension of compliance with or the requirement to comply with the budget rules, these conditions must be met in order to qualify for the precautionary conditional credit line. Indeed, one of the conditions is that a specific ESM member who requests this assistance through a conditional credit line must not have been subject to an excessive deficit procedure, and this must have been the case in the past two years. And in the past two years, it must also meet certain criteria, such as a deficit not exceeding 3% of GDP. Similarly, the structural balance must be at or above a country-specific minimum level. There is also a debt criterion, i.e. the debt must not exceed 60% of GDP, i.e. the debt criterion must be fulfilled in the same way or it must move towards 60%. If these conditions are not met, this simply means that it is not possible to use the precautionary conditional credit line aid. It's as simple as that. The question also concerned the number of years in which Italy will reach compliance with the conditions listed in its budget. I'm gonna be honest with you. I can't really figure it out right now. I'm sure you already have that figured out. Anyway, it's going to take a very long time to get the best of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U20	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U21	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Glad to see you're back in Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U22	You too!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U23	Minister, thank you very much. If you look at this bill, it is clear that we are essentially giving up our sovereign decision-making powers. All the decisions that the Boards of Directors and other councils have to make quickly, sometimes within 12 hours, suggest the fact that we have to approve them ex post. Disprove my claim that, in essence, this draft will turn the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia into the rubber stamp of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U24	[[Remote connection]] That is certainly not the case. Although, as your party's chairman confirmed and discussed the previous draft during the negotiations, you have always opposed the implementation and functioning of the ESM, the idea of the ESM has indeed been essentially such and a safety net from the outset, and its aim is still to mitigate risks. The aim is to prevent and mitigate the anxiety that otherwise spreads very quickly in crisis situations, the anxiety that emerges in the markets. The resolution itself, the entire resolution system, the crisis action, the safeguard that the ESM will now play, is actually directly fulfilling this objective. It is inevitable that decisions must be taken very quickly in critical situations. The alternative would be that stability in the euro area as a whole is indeed at risk. It would be very difficult to say that if such a situation were to arise, Estonia would not be negatively affected. In any case, it would. Our interest is certainly that such a common crisis-landing system will work and be in place. I will take this opportunity to explain once more or to dispel what cases an ESM safeguard measure could be taken in the first place. This is not the case that it can be implemented at any given moment. The assumption that the Board can apply to the ESM at all is that all previous options have been exhausted. This means that the bank's own resources have been exhausted, that the possibility of using both the bank's shareholders and creditors has been exhausted, and that the crisis management fund itself has fully mobilised its own funds. Once all previous options have been exhausted, you can apply for a loan from the ESM. And there are limits ahead too. There, too, the total amount of loans granted cannot exceed the size of the resolution fund, estimated to be EUR 68 to 70 billion. In such a situation, where all previous measures have indeed exhausted themselves, the provision of such last aid or rescue straw is necessary in order to ensure overall stability. So we certainly disagree on this issue. I am deeply convinced that without such a safeguard mechanism, the situation would be much more fragile and the eurozone as a whole would be in a much more difficult situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U25	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U26	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You spoke for a very long time, but you didn't answer my question directly and clearly. But all right. I'll tell you what I'm saying, you can give me an answer. In all of this, I see the construction of a pyramid scheme, such a thimble game that can be summed up in the Estonian folk tradition "The Great Peter and the Little Peter" with a well-known bread bag. First we eat Little Peter's bread bag and then anyone can eat their own. Please reject this! But I see it in exactly this form to build this pyramid scheme with this draft and all the three drafts of this package that we now have here in a row.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U27	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. It is even difficult to comment on in this sense. If one person sees something that is not really there, then you have to accept it as such. But once again, given how intertwined the economy of the European Union is, it is particularly in the interests of a country like Estonia to have such a defence mechanism, and not only would not exist, but would also be functional and, if necessary, implemented quickly. Without it, it is countries like Estonia that are much more likely to find themselves in a very difficult situation due to the anxiety of a rapidly spreading crisis. So, as a whole, such a security mechanism has been necessary, it has been right. In a situation where this mechanism should be implemented, I hope, not so soon, but in some of the next crises, we will have the opportunity to discuss this with you even more, and then, in the form of a real confirmation, to show how such a mechanism will otherwise help to alleviate very critical situations.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U28	Thank you, Minister. No further questions. I now request Dmitri Dmitriyev, Member of the Monetary Commission, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U29	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu Committee on Monetary Affairs has discussed the draft on Tuesday, 16 November. Since nothing was discussed in the Commission that the Minister of Finance has not already told us today, I am immediately moving to the Commission's decisions. All Commission decisions were taken by consensus. It was therefore decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 24 November, to propose that the first reading be closed, to appoint Commissioner Dmitri Dmitriev as representative of the commission and to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U30	Thank you. There's a question for you too. Igor Kravtšenko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U31	Thank you, Mr President, or a good Chairman. Honourable Commission waitress. In his presentation, the Minister repeatedly mentioned that by 2024 the fund would be nearly 70 billion. Can you tell me how big it is now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U32	Thank you for your question. Indeed, the Minister of Finance did not tell us about the resolution fund's benchmark, which should be 1% of all covered deposits and 70 billion by 2024. The latest data are such that EUR 52 billion had been received by the Fund as of July.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U33	Good waitress, thank you. No further questions. Thank you. I will open negotiations and speak with Martin Helme, representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U34	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Yeah, like I promised, I wouldn't make a long speech, but it was confirmed again what I said during the speech on the previous bill. These promises, which were made when the same schemes were set up, are currently being withdrawn and violated. The role of the Riigikogu in decision-making clearly decreases, basically our veto disappears, the Parliament's voice over the use of our money is spreading to somewhere, not even to the Commission, but to some sort of councils. So again, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party, I propose that the draft be rejected at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U35	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The commission has proposed to conclude the first reading, but the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia proposes to reject the draft at first reading in 480. Let us begin the preparation of this vote. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party to reject 480 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U36	17 members of the Riigikogu, against 42 and 1 abstention, the proposal was not supported. The deadline for tabling amendments to the draft 480 is set at 5.15 p.m. on 2 December. The first reading of the draft 480 has been completed and the 27th item has also been closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U37	Let's move on to item 28. This is the first reading of the draft Act 481 on the ratification of the Treaty amending the Treaty on the Transfer and Sharing of Contributions to the Single Resolution Fund initiated by the Government of the Republic. I will give the floor to Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus over the Internet. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U38	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! This is the third draft of the ESM reform package. The amendments to the SRF contribution agreement are linked to the agreement amending the ESM, namely the launch of the Banking Union safeguard mechanism in 2022. The amendments to the agreement were signed by Estonia in February 2021 and in these negotiations too, the positions of the government and the Riigikogu have been guided over several years. Since 2015, banks have already made payments to the Single Resolution Fund (SRF). The fund has increased its share of the pool each year and the collection period, i.e. by the end of the transitional period, by the end of 2023, should have reached its target. It is 1% of covered deposits. As has been said, it is estimated at around EUR 70 billion. And indeed, at the end of this summer, the fund had accumulated some EUR 52 billion. From 1 January 2024, the Fund shall be 100% shared. This means that there is no longer a distinction between which country's banks have received funds and in which country they will be used for resolution. It's already in the contract and it's going to work like this. However, the amendment of the agreement is due to the fact that one element of the ESM reform, the safeguard mechanism of the Banking Union, is to be introduced before the end of the transitional period, i.e. early 2022. It is not yet intended to be used in any particular resolution case. This decision is not currently being taken, but it concerns, as explained in the ESM Treaty, the principle of acceptance of the broad framework of the safeguard mechanism. Should there ever be a situation in which the safeguard mechanism should actually apply to some resolution, the loans received from the Board and the resolution fund ESM will be repaid by way of ex post contributions from the banks. The current change in the contract concerns these payments. According to the current agreement, during the transitional period these payments cannot be redirected to the joint tranche, i.e. to the repayment of the loan. A change of contract will give rise to that possibility. In doing so, the payments to be collected would not go directly to 100% of the pool, but would start at 70% and grow by 3.75% each subsequent quarter, so that 100% would be reached by 2024 at the beginning of 2022. We have agreed to provide the ESM with a safeguard mechanism function and, at the end of 2020, the government also agreed with the assessment by the European Commission and the European Central Bank that the risks in the banking sector have been sufficiently reduced and the safeguard mechanism is feasible earlier than originally planned, i.e. before the end of the resolution fund's collection period in 2024. At the same time, the activation of the safeguard mechanism means that the States' preparedness loans to the Board will be cancelled. These contracts temporarily fulfilled the role of the defence mechanism of the resolution fund and Estonia had then, by decision of the Riigikogu, granted such a readiness loan of 22 million euros. In fact, it didn't make use of it. The same assumption and hope apply, of course, to the fact that the ESM safeguard mechanism does not need to be used in practice. The government's proposal is to ratify the amendments to the agreement on contributions to the resolution fund. Once again, I thank the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which has already unanimously supported it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U39	Thank you, Minister. There are no questions for you. I now ask Dmitri Dmitriyev, Member of the Finance Committee, to speak at the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U40	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This point was also reviewed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu on Tuesday, 16 November. I thank the Minister for a very good overview, because I have nothing left at the moment but to go straight to the decisions, because all the issues dealt with in the Commission are already being enlightened by the Minister. Therefore, the Commission has unanimously taken the following decisions: to propose a draft to be placed on the plenary agenda by 24 November, to propose the termination of the first reading, to appoint Mr Dmitri Dmitriev as the representative of the lead committee and to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U41	Good waitress, thank you. There are no questions. I will open negotiations and speak with Martin Helm, representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U42	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. It's not a long story. This bill also relates to the two previous ones. This bill also reduces our control over our own money and, by the way, significantly reduces our control over our own banking, so on behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group, I propose that the draft be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U43	Thank you. I don't see any more requests. I will ask once whether the representatives of the political groups have a wish to speak. No, it's not. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed to close the first reading of draft 481 SE, while there is a proposal from the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party to reject the draft 481 at first reading. Let us begin with the preparation of the vote on this proposal. I shall put to the vote the draft proposal by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party 481 at first reading to be rejected. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U44	Result: by 14, against 44 members of the Riigikogu, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 2 December at 5.15 p.m. The first reading of Bill 481 is closed and the 28th item is closed. Good fellows, our hearing is closed as well. I thank you and wish you a safe journey home.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U45	Honourable Riigikogu! It's been 12 o'clock. Wednesday, November 24th. Let's start Riigikogu briefing. First, we'll run a presence check. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U46	31 members of the Riigikogu registered. In today's Question Time, we have Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration, who is in charge of the Prime Minister, Liina Kersna, Minister of Education and Science, and Kristian Jaani, Minister of the Interior. We have a total of ten questions, which means that we can take one question from the issues registered on the ground. As usual, ministers have two minutes to ask the question and three minutes to reply.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U47	Let's get started. The first question is from Indrek Island to Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration, who is in charge of the Prime Minister. The choices of the state budget are the subject. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Minister of State Administration in the Prime Minister's role! The state budget that you have brought to the Riigikogu and which is being dealt with by the Riigikogu, and the related state budget strategy that you have adopted in the government for the next four years, is, unfortunately, one of the most hostile of all time in terms of reducing regional inequality. There are many examples in this budget. You, as Minister of State Administration, are the minister who should be responsible for regional development in the government and keep a special eye on it. You have also agreed in your coalition agreement that your priority is to reduce regional, regional inequalities. However, we can see that in the state budget for next year, 4 million measures will be severely reduced to reduce regional disparities. This is a measure to support recreational education and recreational activities. We also see that today, in the Riigikogu, the draft law amending the Gambling Tax Act has been submitted at third reading by the Government, which cuts the resources of the measure supporting regional cultural activities through the centre of folk culture by an estimated EUR 318000 over the next few years and the funds earmarked for regional investment grants by the Ministry of Finance by nearly EUR 1.8 million. However, this list may continue. On this subject, I know, there will be other questions today. As Minister responsible for Regional Development, how do you comment on the government policy that will be implemented by the budget and the national budget strategy?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U49	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! Thank you for the question. Looking more broadly at what [has been done] in recent years and what the current government has done with regard to the development of the regions, as you can recall, a few governments ago was one regional policy measure that the local authorities' revenue base was raised. Local government revenue has increased by 50% over the last five years, total revenue. I think this is one of the most important regional policy measures adopted in recent years. Even during the difficult years of the crisis, the revenue of local governments was not reduced, but we also provided 176 million crisis aid in two years. This is very important for regional development, local life and economic recovery, especially so that municipalities can make their investments and procurement and keep jobs, so that regions at least ensure that there is no backward development. All signs and statistics show that in recent years the rapid emergence of disparities between regions has decreased, rather it has stabilised. Of course, our aim is for [all] regions to develop more quickly after a few more developed regions, which, unfortunately, according to all the indicators, Estonia has. We are preparing a regional development action plan. Not only the state budget resources, but also the European Union funds for the next funding period, are important here. All areas, all ministries in this action plan indicate their priority activities for regional development. Where there are programmes or measures, it will be described how regional development and the reduction of disparities can be addressed in these areas, either by the allocation of regional funds prior to those programmes or by a smaller own contribution to these actions and programmes. The Regional Development Action Plan, together with all the actions of the European Union's financial funds, should be approved by the government in January, as should other operational programmes. Not to mention Ida-Virumaa, where money from the Fair Transfer Fund can also be used, and where the development of the region will certainly receive an additional boost with an additional resource, so that we can support more of the activities that we have done in recent years in creating new jobs and developing entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U50	Indrek Saar, please, a more specific question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U51	I'm really glad you guys are making some plans. It is a question of what are the real benefits of these schemes if you put an end to the increase in these instruments, which are precisely measures that reduce regional disparities, while at the same time severely reducing them, or the additional resources that had previously been provided for by law. Of course, there must be more resources for the municipality over time because, like the state, the costs will inevitably increase at the level of the municipality. That's for different reasons. One [cause] is certainly rapid economic growth, inflation, wage growth and so on, which has been unprecedented this year and is expected for the coming year. In this context, it would be unthinkable that local government revenues would not generally increase. But I am talking about concrete measures to support regional development, which you have had cut. My question is what you, as the Minister responsible for regional development, did in the discussions of the government to ensure that the support measure for recreational education and activities is not curtailed. I have here a reminder of the time we asked the Minister of Education and Research, sitting next to you, about the huge cut in the support of interest education. Its discussion was held on 7 June this year. On the question [we said] that the Minister of Culture has said that he does not think that this would be a good cut, and he would like it not to come. Your colleague, Liina Kersna, replied: "... I would remind you that we have a coalition government, and that coalition government includes the Central Party. I did not hear from any member of the government during the discussions on the country's budget strategy that this is a place where we must not reduce expenditure. No objections! " Is it true, Minister, who is responsible for regional development?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U52	Thank you for the question. If, in the case of regional development, focus specifically on just one budget line, the field of hobby education, I can certainly say in my personal opinion that the support for hobby education was actually introduced as an initiative by the Centre Party. The main part of recreational education is financed by municipalities from their own resources either way, but in order to improve, diversify and enable the municipalities to also provide free circles of interest, the support came into the grant fund as a separate measure. Personally, I can say that, of course, the first option to look for austerity in the budget would not have been to have been an education, but all ministers had this task and the Minister for Education and Science proposed it. All ministries had to deal with these austerity plans, and that is exactly how these proposals came together, and no one might have liked them very much. I think, given that local governments' revenue bases are growing, that the capacity of local authorities to provide both recreational education and other services will be considerably higher next year than this year. Should such a line be separate? As Minister of State Administration, I have never really been particularly in favour of these separate lines of support fund. We are also seriously dealing with the fact that money with a separate label for the support fund will move more and more freely into the revenue base, i.e. the municipality will be able to decide on these funds and should not use the money with the label exactly for this purpose. After all, every municipality has a history that has already given more support to the social sector, who has supported the education sector. Then this money could be used more freely to help these areas, and the state should not put these labels on. That's what we're gonna do. I've also taken suggestions from the ministries, and in the near future, I'm going to the office. Let us see how we can proceed with this so-called decentralisation, so that the government of the state or the government of the Riigikogu does not write the money with this sign. The total result of how much money the municipality will be able to use next year is a 4-million-dollar cut in the education of interest, which does not look so good symbolically, however, a very small part of what comes with the local government's income.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U53	And now the matter registered on the spot. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U54	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! What is your personal attitude and understanding when we look at what is happening in Estonia at energy prices and not only at the price of electricity but also at the price of gas? We have proposed a reduction in VAT, we know that the COVID crisis will not give in to the fact that there are a number of problems. Last week, I asked Minister Sut if and what kind of grants are planned for businesses. He didn't know how to answer it yet. In the meantime, he has reported through the media that, in his opinion, restaurants and the food sector, for example, do not need help. Have, and in what form, the government discussed what the vision of the government is now, are there any sectors that you think are suffering from both energy prices and the health crisis? Will the government plan and, if so, what measures to support these sectors? The second issue is in the context of the end user. We will see that the budget for next year is scheduled to receive 100 million additional taxes, funds, but a few millions will be returned when you turn to a request for assistance and a letter.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U55	Thank you for the question. As regards the price increases that energy carriers have been going through lately, we know that the price of electricity, gas and indoor heating to the final consumer is likely to be rising rather strongly, we have had a number of tools under discussion. Of these tools, we decided to use one that was the fastest. If we pay half of the network fee to both the entrepreneur and the person, to the household, this will give about 10% savings in the final electricity bill, where there are quite a number of lines. This could be implemented as quickly as possible. There has also been talk of a reduction in VAT. It would certainly take more time than, for example, to compare it with a reduction in network charges. I certainly have not said that these are all the measures that we would like to take once and for all. Maybe we need to find new solutions, but I'm talking about what's been decided in the cabinet. The second source cost almost 90 million, what we do with network charges within six months to halve them. In addition, from the surplus of CO2 resources, we have 37.5 million It is estimated that 70,000 families will receive it. This is taken into account so that it is a relative poverty limit where the first member of the family, as a net income, will receive less than EUR 673 when we look at this limit. For example, all pensioners living alone are likely to qualify for this allowance and these benefits are likely to be paid out by municipalities in December. There is a decree of the Minister of Public Administration that establishes these conditions by means of this regulation and municipalities can grant these grants retroactively from September onwards. So when prices have risen, well, almost half of the energy price, almost 40% of this 50% increase can be compensated. It is complicated, a little bureaucratic, I admit, but it was one of the fastest methods for us to compensate for these price increases precisely for the low-insured families, which are certainly the hardest because of these price increases. With regard to the effects of restrictions in other sectors, let's say the loss of revenue, Andres Sutt has also introduced this [the topic] in his office. It's definitely not closed. Looking at concrete results, the office may need to take further action. This is particularly the case in the hospitality and catering sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U56	Okay. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U57	We will go to the second question put by Helir-Valdor Seeder to the Minister of Education and Science, Liina Kersna, on rapid tests. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U58	Thank you. Dear Minister, The need for testing students in schools was discussed and this was already proposed in March of this year. The government did not consider it necessary or could not implement it even at the beginning of the academic year in September, but implemented it from November onwards. We know today that it was done in a hurry, and it's supposed to be ten minutes left to decide. So seven months, but ten minutes to decide. All this first procurement went completely behind the fence: EUR 3 million above the market price. Several operators who would have been able and willing to participate were excluded and so on. Why was the government unable to implement it for a whole seven months, to prepare properly for testing and procurement of tests? Who is responsible, and what is that responsibility? We know that a second call has been announced in November. This procurement has also been announced as a negotiated procedure without prior publication of a contract notice, and problems have already arisen here. On top of that, you have awarded a prize in your order in connection with the planning and launching of quick tests in schools for a ministry employee, probably for good results. You are very pleased with the launch and preparation of all this rapid testing and procurement, which is extremely strange. Who's still responsible for all the mess and shit that the Ministry of Education has ruled? And if you know who's responsible, what's the responsibility anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U59	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, for your question. I categorically disagree that rapid testing has been a failure. In three weeks, we have detected positive results from almost 2,300 rapid tests in the school environment. We can see that, since the introduction of rapid tests, the overall target of infection in society has also fallen significantly. What we see is that the level of infection among schoolchildren has fallen significantly and the number of school monsters has fallen significantly in all the weeks when rapid testing has been used. So no one should be questioning the need to organise rapid testing at the moment. This has been a very necessary and important measure to control the virus and to keep schools open. Yes, indeed, I must admit that this decision was urgent and extraordinary. Because when the government made a fundamental decision on 14 October that after school break we should start organising rapid testing in schools, the infection target was significantly lower than at the end of October when this task came to the Ministry of Education and Research. On 14 October, the 14-day infection rate was 1,000, at the end of October when the government decided, the 14-day infection rate was already over 1,700. We know that after rapid testing was started in schools, the infection rate has fallen and is now pretty low. We can be satisfied with this, but this means that rapid testing in schools has worked well, and this must certainly be continued. Of course, this was admitted by the government and my fellow Member, who was sitting next to me, admitted that the negotiated procurement provided for by law is exceptionally possible. It's a legal option. The question is whether this was justified enough at the time. According to the lawyers and procurement specialists of the Ministry of Education and Research, this was justified. If it turns out that this was not justified, my colleague, Jaak Aab, wrote to me and announced that the Ministry might have to pay a fine of EUR 1200 for it. I'm sure if it turns out we did something wrong, you have to admit this mistake, learn from it. As I understand it, this law on public procurement has not really been used before. This is exceptional and I think that we have set a precedent now and that it is absolutely necessary to analyse whether it was justified or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U60	Mr. Ceder, the point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U61	Thank you. In fact, you did not answer either of my questions, which were the reasons why six months of testing could not be prepared and did not begin in September. I got pretty upset about your demagogic response when you said everything was very well with the speed test that it justified itself. We have made this proposal, a question has been raised since March to start testing in schools. That's not the question. We very much support testing, and I understand that it had broad support to start testing. But the government didn't think it was necessary or couldn't prepare it all summer to start testing from September. All this testing preparation and its organizational side have failed. I was talking about this, not about the need for rapid testing, which you have now pointed out that it has been very successful. Of course, it has succeeded, it has helped to identify positive, infectious and it has been possible to limit this spread. This has been effective. The question is how you put it into practice: over the market price, six months in preparation or unprepared, and finally paying the bonus to the people who should have been responsible for it. That was the content of my question. Now I have another question. It's about the other procurement that was announced. You yourself have claimed that the first procurement provided enough supplies of these tests to allow schools to continue until the end of this year. I would point out, however, that tests in vocational training institutions may not yet be carried out. So there aren't that many tests, though. But now the second tender stipulates that it should be possible to deliver these tests within three weeks. This suggests that there may still not be enough tests until the end of the year. How's that for real? Is it until the end of the year, or is it not until the end of the year, as you said earlier? What about vocational schools, doesn't the infection spread there, only in general education schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U62	Thank you. In March, I understand that you or the Isamaa Group proposed to carry out rapid tests in schools. We ordered an overview of COVID and schools based on scientific material from the University of Tartu in order to gain knowledge and plan activities by autumn. At this point in time, there was no such scientific knowledge that mass rapid testing in schools would necessarily be necessary. There was no such proposal; no such proposal was made to the government by the scientific council. The consequences are justified, and the experts have also explained that the delta strain that came to us really spreads much faster among children than the British strain, which was widely spread in Estonia before. The scientific knowledge that today's overwhelming strain is spreading very quickly among children and that children are also very good carriers of this virus came to us only recently. That knowledge before, there was no scientific knowledge. As for my advisor Mario Kadastik, Mario Kadastik is part-time as my scientific advisor. I see that this work, which he has done in connection with the rapid tests, has not been part-time work. I therefore considered it necessary to pay him a prize of EUR 750. This is not much, given that it is a doctorate, a very highly qualified person, and it has really been very useful in organising the procurement of rapid tests, in these negotiations. Once again, this has been effective.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U63	Now, the matter registered on the spot. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U64	Thank you very much, Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister, I don't understand. The government in which you work, you have come to realize that schools must be kept open in any case, and rapid testing is a sensible measure. At the same time, the proposal made by the Fatherland that the whole society should be viewed and regulated in this way through testing has not been supported by this government. This was the issue that we have proposed that society should be regulated by testing in another context. You referred to the passenger that he suggested and wrote to you that he could get a fine of 1200 euros. Your sidekick also did this at the government meeting, which is what you said in your meeting with the Isamaa Group, that you propose that you take offers from at least three companies. You said you couldn't do it, and it was your risk that you went into a procurement with a company and put your signature under it. This is quite incomprehensible, especially given what eventually happened, at what prices [these tests] were obtained. My question is, why was this period so long, one month? You've also said yourself that no one had such tests. At first they were planned until the end of November, now you do not exactly understand whether there will be enough until the end of December for those tests that were intended for November, or there will be fewer of them. But it is clear that their sharing has taken place in different ways in several stages. I do not understand why it was necessary to make this call for one month when, for days and weeks, these tests were being obtained and distributed to schools, and how this price turned out to be absurdly high because we needed this kind of test. Do you regard this as a sensible and successful idea and project afterwards?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U65	Thank you. First of all, as regards the distribution of tests until the end of the year, if we are testing and such recommendations have been given to schools twice a week and, in particular, those who have not suffered from the disease and have not been vaccinated, they will be available until the end of the year. Why was this covenant made for one month? Because we got one month of certainty that the tests are in place and the supplies are moving. We knew this logistics was extremely large. 520 general education schools are in Estonia. If a week by week were to run testing and testing logistics with new partners, we wouldn't have the numbers we're seeing right now. You can shrug your shoulders, but I'm in charge right now so schools can be open and schools can be open as safely as possible. I had to make sure this system worked. As a result, we can say that yes, the system worked. If we had started to deal with entrepreneurs for weeks, I do not know what my colleague Jaak Aab would have said if it had happened for weeks and then what would have actually gotten to schools. Today we are in a situation where the second tender is closed, the contract is signed and the first deliveries from the new operator should reach schools after 6 December. These tests are planned in particular by January.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U66	Let us stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U67	Let us move to the third question put by Kert Kingo to the Minister of the Interior, Kristian Jaan. The subject is the role of the police in society. Please, Kert Kingo!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U68	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister of the Interior! The police's website contains these words: "Despite the line of work, our team is united by one goal - we are here to help. We are working to make all people feel safe in Estonia; to learn with a calm heart, to exercise themselves; to have a safe environment in Estonia to develop the economy and culture... " I remember those times when I worked for the Police and Border Guard Board. At that time, the police had work ethic, were not unjustly violent with people, or were using physical force, and were tried to cope with words. The police were professional and acted professionally, as well as on the basis of values previously in force, in a humane, honest manner and, above all, in a spirit of cooperation with people. Now, with pride, the brutality of the police is presented as a great job. Presents how, using physical force, they drag people into cars, force them to the ground without being a threat to public order. This reminds me of the police or the police of the early nineties, when so-called law enforcement often behaved more like a criminal gang. My question is, do you, as a minister, approve of this behaviour by the police? Is that the police's new work ethic now? So what's helping the police? Please don't start talking about non-compliance with masking and checking health records as a threat to public order in the sense of law enforcement. That's what you, as a lifetime police officer, should know, is that it's a law twisting.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U69	Thank you for your question. Good leader! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Very good question on the role of the police in society. It has also been studied at scientific level quite a lot both abroad and in Estonia. There is a specific police science researcher in Estonia, Professor Priit Suve, who has studied it. Of course, all young emerging policemen also know this, because when they start their studies, they deal with different criminological aspects and theories. All policemen are familiar with detectives like Lombroso and others. I think that the Estonian police, whose mission is to ensure security in cooperation, have acted professionally. When we come back to theories for a moment, to modern theory and to what may have been the earlier theory about police interventions, they are generally divided into two. There has been a theory about reactive police work, and there has been a theory about preventive police work. Indeed, the theory of preventive police work is what the police do. The police are taking preventive action, in particular, when there are offences, the first thing to do is to go and explain to people proactively why such behaviour is not acceptable in society, which legislation conflicts with such behaviour. A large number of people, of course, understand this very well and, after that, start to behave in a legitimate manner. Indeed, some elements are that the police are forced to take the measures provided for by the law, until some situations require the use of coercion or, for example, the conduct of criminal proceedings, whether they are conducted by the prosecutor's office, or misdemeanour proceedings, in which the police are out of court. So I think that the police are acting on the basis of the values agreed at the Police and Border Guard Board, in particular, proactively. Once again, the police have the right to take other measures, including coercion, as an extreme measure. I would stress that this is an extreme measure, but perhaps it does indeed happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U70	Now please, Kert Kingo, the point of clarification!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U71	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! What you just said was a spin, you didn't answer my question. Everyone has seen on these video clips how there's no warning or talking, just going by force and breaking down, whether it's a mall or a private company. That's the way to do it. The police are showing their strength right now. The police have been renegade from their present values, for which 20 or 30 years have worked hard to get the police taken as a helper, a sense of security. Now, under the control of these so-called masks and vaccination certificates, the work of decades will be destroyed. I really have the question: what do you think this is about helping? I am aware of a number of cases where the police have broken the law, if incorrect injunctions have been issued within the meaning of the law, unfounded claims for coercion, without checking whether there are any grounds for doing so. Explain to me if you were so jealous here to defend the police's actions in which this help is involved and what the role of the police in society is today. Once again, I apologise to my former colleagues. This talk is not meant for you, who still have basic dignity and ethics.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U72	Thank you for your question. The Estonian police are still a very dignified and reliable organisation. The main feature of the behaviour of the Estonian police is preventive behaviour. But the Estonian police have the right, the right arising from the law to be very resolute and imposing, including the use of various measures, also physical force. However, this is never the first measure used by the police. First word force is used, then word force again, but if necessary, other measures can also be used. If there is a situation where someone senses that the Estonian police have acted improperly or illegally, then in Estonia, the rule of law, it is possible to complain about the activities of the police. That is what you must do when a person feels that his rights have been violated or when the police have acted in a way that transcends their powers. There are a number of possibilities for complaining: there is an opportunity to lodge a complaint with an internal control office directly under the authority of the Director-General and it is possible to bring a complaint to the courts, for example if a misdemeanour procedure has been carried out and the protocol drawn up by an out-of-court procedure has been reached, even until a penalty has been imposed. Then people will always have the opportunity to turn to the administrative court. That is what must be done when a person feels that his rights have been violated and the police have not acted as they should.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U73	A question registered on the spot can be asked by Kalle Grünthal. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U74	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister of the Interior! Before I ask my question, I would just like to say a few words of instruction to you out of respect for you. Please take the following into account when answering the question: The Question Time of the Riigikogu is not Hyde Park or a marketplace where you can talk about anything, and that is the end of it. Let me remind you that a verbatim record of what you have said is being drawn up in this Chamber, where everything is being fixed with great precision. Therefore, what you have said has an extremely large legal weight, which will later be translated into written evidence, which can be used as an extremely heavy argument in various disputes. Why am I saying this? I will inform you that I intend to use what you have said in court proceedings and that my questioning is about obtaining and securing evidence. I hope I made myself clear. So, through the media, we have seen the police using very strong measures against those who violate masking [the claim]. But I'm not asking about it, I'm asking about the duty to wear masks. There is probably no dispute that you are part of the government that has, by its order, imposed the obligation to wear masks. I would like to know the scientific arguments, or evidence, on the basis of the content and operative part of which the benefits of masking have been highlighted and where the release of particles from masks, respiratory resistance parameters, microbiological contamination and the issuance of chemical compounds would also be described. Perhaps briefly: I would like to get an expert opinion on the basis of which the obligation to wear a mask has been decided and I ask who has been named expert. In response, please do not refer to the recommendations of the Scientific Advisory Board or any other specialist, because you are still the one who remains responsible for the duty to wear masks.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U75	Thank you for your question. Releading: the creation of evidence in criminal proceedings is described very specifically either in the Code of Criminal Procedure or in the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure, the way in which evidence is produced, the way in which evidence is produced and the way in which it must be fixed. Of course, the way in which questions are being asked and the way in which these questions are being answered is also absolutely crucial. What is the Police and Border Guard Board doing today to check the requirements imposed by the government? Indeed, one requirement is also the obligation to wear masks in public indoors. The Government of the Republic trusts the scientific council here, which has pointed out that masking in public indoors is one measure that will help society as a whole to overcome this pandemic situation. We have also seen that the various measures that have been put in place and where, indeed, the scientific council, which has been dragged by Irja Lutsar, has also played a very important role. After all, we see today that the situation has turned to the better. On the one hand, the Health Board, which has a direct responsibility and responsibility to supervise, plays a very important role in supervision, but which today also involves the Police and Border Guard Board in supervisory activities. Indeed, supervisory activities are precisely in those places where this impact may be greatest, such as shopping centres, where there are many people together and where there is a duty to wear masks. Or, for example, different companies that have the obligation to verify the existence of a COVID passport before a person comes and starts to consume the company's services, such as different entertainment establishments or restaurants. So, in short, it is the scientific council that brings to the government the science[data] that the government listens to and makes its decisions accordingly.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U76	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U77	Let us move to the fourth question put by Ivari Padar to the Minister of the Interior, Kristian Jaan. The budget cuts in the police are the subject. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U78	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. And good luck to the Estonian police! This is because the police are facing very great challenges in this difficult situation, as is the case with the fight. In fact, I look on the sidelines and I see that, in general, it is still very correctly managed to do so. It is undisputed that the use of force in certain situations is inevitable, which goes hand in hand with the lives of the police. Today, a new state budget is being made, and it is inevitable that each state budget will review the structure, review where cuts are being made and what can be changed. In general, it is difficult for police officers to speak up for themselves. We know that there is a cut of 3.5 million planned in the police, and this cut in today's situation is actually worrying. We do not know what this really means, what this planned cut will mean, how it will affect the regional police, for example, how it will affect the availability of the service. Please be good and give us the quick explanation that the budget that will start on 1 January will bring to the police.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U79	Thank you, good Chairman. Good member of the Riigikogu! Indeed, the task of austerity is the same in all areas of government of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and in all other areas of government in Estonia, in order to achieve the balance of the state budget more quickly. At the same time, we look at the situation that was in the autumn. Then the austerity task was even more challenging than it is today. Autumn austerity was almost 12 million in all government areas and was reduced by 5 million. We're getting to the police and Border Guard Board from here, generally alone. Indeed, in the view of fulfilling the austerity task, i.e. finding 3.5 million public budgets in balance, this is a challenge in any case. Where do these sums come from? In particular, there is a plan to reduce vacant posts, which are covered by budgetary resources. But I can also give examples that have been through and that people are aware that taking the police orchestra alone under the Police and Border Guard Board to Tallinn has saved more than half a million euros. If we are talking about empty posts that are covered by the budget, then [the savings are] circa 1 million euros. The Police and Border Guard Board is also carrying out management changes to save on the chain of command. There, too, is a complete saving. So there are places where you can save. Every top executive every year is actually looking for these places. Indeed, this time, the difference is that if the chief executive in general is looking for places of austerity and optimization, he will be able to channel these [amounts] back into the organisation, i.e. raise the pay of important officials in the organisation, the pay of the front line. This time, it is true that money must be given away in the view of the so-called austerity task, but this does not mean that the top executives of the various organisations of the Ministry of the Interior, too, are not looking for additional opportunities to find even more internal resources to raise wages for those who are also deprived of the state budget funds that go specifically to the Police and Border Guard Board. I also point out that one thing is the task of austerity, but the other is that the administration of the Ministry of the Interior received more than 11 million euros from the payroll fund, of which 6 million went to the Police and Border Guard Board. But once again: the implementation of the austerity task is a challenge because the PBP has been a very good saver in the last ten years. An example is that when the Police and Border Guard Board was established in 2010, 6,000 people worked there today, 5,000 people working there today. A good example is that, if it is important to guard the external borders today, in this ten-year period and in the context of the [budgetary] reduction, the resource that guards our external borders has not decreased.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U80	Surely we can discuss this further. Ivari Padar, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U81	Mr. Minister! I think that's the answer you've been practicing all night. I want to know quite specifically how many district police units are going to be laid off and what will happen in the service, whether there will be changes in customer service. I say from my own experience that alongside all that I see good in the police, on the other hand, I see this process as an arduous and difficult journey from a criminal to a court, especially in the case of minor offences. In the current situation, we are looking at identity thefts and all that. What I see is that the police are struggling with today's resources, the police can't handle this budget. I could talk about it here for a long time. Please tell me specifically what concerns the regional police, even in the municipalities that have become huge. Let's take Võru out. These municipalities are immensely large. In this respect, it is clear that if regional police are to be reduced in these large municipalities, this is a fall in quality. What's really gonna work?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U82	Thank you. I can start at the service halls, for example. If we are talking about service halls that are quite numerous in Estonia, two of them are the largest in Tallinn, then the aim of the police has been to direct people more to apply for documents and book time in the online environment for quite a long time. This has been very effective. A situation has been achieved where, for example, almost 40% more people have used and are using the Internet to apply for a document and book time, both during COVID and today. This, in turn, means that it may sound very difficult, that very many jobs will be taken over by the online environment and people who physically sit in service halls, serve people and carry out corresponding procedures will no longer be needed in the future. This is a development of technologies, which is unfortunately inevitable. One simple example may be that if we go to the service hall today, there is an employment kiosk where a person can independently give fingerprints and a specimen of the signature and take a photo. It used to take a physical person behind the counter. It doesn't have to be today, it's a machine. So there are a number of technological solutions that will also help the PBGB to take such decisions in order to reduce the number of people. When we are talking about regional constables, all the changes and reforms must, of course, be carried out in such a way that they touch as little as possible on the front line and people's sense of security. When we are talking about the internal security development plan that has been adopted today, we must take into account that security in its nature and the creation of a sense of security throughout the world, and also in Estonia, is moving more and more towards the fact that the primary security provider and the preventer is the person who must be taught, who must be able to act proactively, must be prepared for different cases. If not, then there must be a very quick response from the police side. We certainly cannot say that the number of police officers should be the same today as ten years ago, because the environment has changed, the trends in crime have changed, the profiles have changed. But once again, I can assure you that a person's sense of security is the last thing that can be affected by the need to stick together or to carry out different reforms.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U83	Okay. Mr. Padre! In general, we have such a custom, we have agreed that one question and one point of clarification and then one issue registered in the Chamber. Since Mr Kruusimäe wishes to ask, I will, with your permission, give this question to Tarmo Kruusimäe. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U84	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress, I stayed to listen to that self-service word. After all, all sorts of so - called self - service offences can also be committed, meaning that someone comes with someone else's face or gives someone else's [data] to do so. Is there still surveillance there? After all, many people who have come to Europe and are also asking for identity documents here have been [doing it] on the wrong grounds, i.e. they have already originally lied. Are we aware that the people to whom this document is issued have a face and it fits? To make it look like it wasn't a joke afterwards: somewhere near the Arctic Circle, where IDs were made, the photographer just didn't bother to take more pictures, and then somebody came and said that the face was mine, but the coat was another person's.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U85	Thank you for your question. These are two different areas of procedure. When we talk about self-service and the corresponding employment kiosk, they concern Estonian citizens who come to apply for or renew an ID card or the passport of the Republic of Estonia. When we talk about foreigners, the process is a little different, including identification. There, the identification of a person takes place on a completely different basis: communication with different countries up to common information bases at European Union level. Of course, machines are smart enough today, they can match different data, they can match previous data with [news] and, of course, follow-up must also be carried out. But once again I assure you that when we talk about the Estonian ID card, we talk about applying for and issuing a passport and collecting the relevant data, it is not possible to carry out such abuses with the help of a machine.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U86	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U87	We will go to the fifth question put by the Minister of Education and Science, Liina Kersna, of Tarmo Kruusimäe. The topic is the action plan for education in Estonian.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U88	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! We noticed at the beginning of this composition how important Estonian language and education in Estonian were. He made a number of draft decisions, although yesterday we learned that these draft decisions were not really [made] with sincere intentions. The vice-president here gave a long patronizing lecture about what you're going to do to give these instructions. But that's my question. If we touch on any questions related to the Estonian language, it is said that one magic wand is coming, it is an action plan for education in Estonian. You've promised us that since March. Where has he been, or can you describe some of the major problems and share them with us? Is there any way we can give our teachers a positive impulse or something? For some reason, I assume that education in Estonian is extremely important for all the parties represented in the Riigikogu. What if you share these bottlenecks? There will be a Christmas coming up, which means that many other laws, about which officials say that there will be a magic key, which is an Estonian-language education agenda, entangled behind it. I'd like to share your concern.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U89	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, for this important question. Indeed, the Ministry has worked hard with experts to ensure that the Estonian-language education agenda becomes as mute as possible. We have had a team of experts together, led by the Chancellor of the Ministry. In the autumn, from 23 September to 14 October, 14 other interest groups were consulted, such as the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities, the Educational Chopper, the Estonian Language If Second Language Teachers Association, the Estonian Language Turn, the [Estonia] Association of School Leaders, the University of Tartu, the University of Tallinn and so on. A total of over 200 proposals were received from these meetings, which were in addition to the work of this expert group. These proposals have been analysed, many of which have also reached the agenda. In general, this action plan is divided into three parts: ensuring equal opportunities in education; secondly, teacher secondary growth and development and learning; and the third part is curriculum and educational resources. These are the three major problems that we are trying to solve with this agenda. Yesterday, when I visited the Committee on Culture, I promised that on 3 December I would send this action plan to the members of the Committee on Culture, and on 7 December we will also discuss it in the Committee on Culture. After I have received the feedback from the Committee on Culture, I am sure to go to the government with this action plan. There are certainly tasks in the action plan that require additional funding. We must take into account that if we want to do these things, there is a need for additional money in the country's budget strategy.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U90	Tarmo Kruusimäe, more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U91	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! The cooperation circle could also have been happy to include Estonian language learning [development] on the problem committee, which we have here. If you are able to send it on 3 December, then we could send it to our committee, too, we are looking forward to it. Having worked for a little while in an institution managed by the Ministry of Education and Research, I know that the process and the process of involvement are quite complex there. Let us look at today's first question of Question Time, which was about the rapid tests. The question often remains whether this logic or the proverb that rege rauta in the summer, well, to prepare for some sort of thing, will no longer be a criminal. Or did you, in the ministry, say, have more confrontation with bringing new winds, which has prevented you from bringing out this agenda? I understand you're not in a comfortable position, you've issued a draft, and this process is moving and moving. Are there any other invisible obstacles we should know as ambassadors?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U92	Thank you very much for your question. The Estonian language development plan, which has only recently been adopted by the government, aims in its third strategic objective that by 2035 mostly Estonian-language education has been transferred, i.e. teaching in schools and kindergartens funded by the state and local government is in Estonian. This development plan also says that an action plan for education in Estonian needs to be developed. That's what we've done. If anything has prevented this action plan from being carried out, COVID, the fact that the Ministry of Education and Research, among other things, has to deal with the procurement of rapid tests, which in general do not fall within the competence of the Ministry of Education and Research. Today, I believe, the Ministry of Education and Research has one of the best competences in the country in ordering rapid tests at all, because we have done a lot of work on this. I can assure you with a calm heart that all those people who are involved in the transition to education in Estonian have been able to deal peacefully with this area together with very many experts. It is quite clear that the transition to education in Estonian requires a lot of preparatory work. This action plan also outlines the scope of this preparatory work, such as teacher training, development and development of educational resources. We have met repeatedly, I personally, people in the field of education and language learning in Tallinn and Tartu. In universities, this area also needs to be developed. This action plan also provides for money and action to boost this academic competence in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U93	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U94	Let us move to the sixth question put by Peter Ernits to Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration. The subject is corruption.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U95	Good manager! Minister of State Administration in his duties as Prime Minister! I am not going to talk about Elva right now, but I would like to ask how taxpayers' money is distributed in a transparent manner. I've been keeping a close eye on the MES. In July, I proposed that the members of the Bureau be recalled because of such arbitrary and suspicious activities, and a few months later the Central Criminal Police did so too. But what I'm interested in is that if the moment of coincidence is quite strong in the distribution of these funds, I'm talking about the COVID loans, how does it really work? I'm staying in Saaremaa. In Saaremaa, too much or disproportionate money has gone from COVID loans. At the same time, business plans often do not tolerate it and a number of activities do not work there, large tax debts are at stake and some people have also been convicted of corruption crimes who have received large amounts of money. They're saying, considering the Board of the MES, that the ears of the Central Party are strongly behind it. I'm a little more specific that there's a key character, Mart Undrest, on the board of the MES, such a respected person. He is the son of Mihkel Undrest, the chairman of the Saaremaa district of the Central Party. It's not a question of who someone's son is, but people in Saaremaa say that Mihkel is a god and you have to talk to him if you want to get a loan under certain conditions. My question is whether it is true that the relationship with the key characters of the Centre Party may depend on who receives a loan or a guarantee from the MES and under what conditions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U96	Thank you for your question. However, I will begin with the answer from Elva, because this story, which has been printed publicly on the portals and which comes from a good questioner's Facebook, is based on false claims and slander. I respect you, Peter, as a journalist and writer. I've always said that. But this time I don't even know what writing it is, it's a fantasy or it's a science fiction. If it were in the fictional version and anonymous, then perhaps it would be okay, but since there have been specific charges against me and some other people, I want to settle and take advantage of this opportunity here. Those same MES crisis aid loans, yes, it was decided to allocate this amount to the Rural Development Foundation from the additional budget. This was confirmed in the Riigikogu. These loans are shared by the Council of the MES, just as you referred to them. I have nothing to do with any such decision, except that an additional budget was drawn up in the government. The claim that I have influenced someone to behave with these loans is completely wrong and slanderous. I found out about your Facebook post, the fact that the farmer got the loan in the first place. Yeah, we've been in contact with Sulev Six, we've known for quite a few years, but our stories have never been about concrete support and loan. We are talking about rural development, farming, local government development. Sulev Six really joined our party list for Elva's council elections. It was his own decision and the decision of his local party associates that this happened. My influence is not at stake here. I've been talking to him on the phone pretty regularly. The appeal is a good and enterprising man in the country and he certainly also has proposals for better consideration of the needs of farmers, rural promoters and so on in public policy. As I said about your question today, I will not make these decisions. How they are done in the Council should be asked by the minister in this area. When these loans started to be distributed, there were quite a few representatives of the EKRE in the Council. I should ask Arvo Aller how these things started. One mistake was certainly made there: this money was intended for revolving loans, but it was then issued in both turnover and investment loans. Neither the government nor the Riigikogu had such will. So that's what you need to ask your party minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U97	Peter Ernits, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U98	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. First of all, I am not blaming you, but I asked a question that I cannot answer without the help of the competent bodies. But Urmas Kruuse has said that there could certainly have been political pressure to distribute these funds. That's what I know, it was pretty big out there, who gets, who doesn't get, under what conditions, for 10 or 12 years, at what rate. I will now ask you specifically in connection with you and stress that the police are working on this until now. Have you personally given any indications or signals that material benefits can be expected if the elections come on the list? I recall that as an ambassador to Tartu County and a former member of the Central Party, I know this landscape quite precisely, and I know how difficult it was to get people on the Central Party list in autumn. My question is whether you have had any activity in the municipality of Elva and not only in the municipality of Elva, there are other municipalities in Tartu County, I am talking only about Tartu County, where you can say that you have given such signals either directly or through someone else's party member or someone else's third party. Finally, as a prime minister, I ask you: when will the MES finally become a member of the board? At present, this important institution is essentially without head. As far as Arvo Aller is concerned, I have been following this institution. That's where it goes a little bit on the other level.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U99	Thank you for your question. In the Rural Promotion Foundation or in the [at all] Foundations, the boards of directors, according to the rules, are very well aware of this. To be honest, the Minister has no right to intervene, but he must be aware of what is going on in his administration. I am saying here that I can guarantee a hundred percent: [never] to have any influence, I have never promised any support or loan to anyone, and I have no connection with the MES loans. I can say that for sure. I think a good questioner would think twice before you say such things and throw out such slander on people. It's not just that you can brand a person as a corrupt, leverage trader, just like that. I dare assure you that no such conversation, no such statement, is true. Absolutely, well, I don't know, but at some point, maybe the questioner would think about apologizing to the people he's been making baseless false claims about.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U100	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U101	Question seven. Submitted by Mikhail Lotman, presented to the Minister of the Interior, Kristian Jaan, the subject of security. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U102	Dear Minister, On 10 November, another political consultation between the Estonian Republic and the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs took place in Tallinn. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Estonia announced that it was discussed about the border agreement and that Estonia is ready to move forward with the ratification of the border agreement. This message gives the impression that the ratification of the border treaty is once again behind the Republic of Estonia. You may ask why I ask you, not the Minister of Foreign Affairs. But the point is, it directly affects the border and its security. My first question is whether, in today's security situation, where Russia encourages and supports Belarus's hybrid attacks at the borders of the European Union, such a signal seems reasonable to you. The border issue is inextricably linked to the baseline and its security. Do you think the measures taken by the current government are adequate in an emergency? I think they're more declarative. Do you really think that they can withstand the attacks we see on the borders of Lithuania and Poland?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U103	Thank you for your question. Indeed, a large part of this question could be answered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. If you are asking whether the border agreement between Estonia and the Russian Federation is important, then yes, it is important that there is a valid border agreement between Estonia and the Russian Federation. When we talk about today's temporary control line and we call it the external border, it is actually right to call it the temporary control line. This particular control line has been agreed, otherwise it would not be possible to carry out the planned border construction that we are about to do on our temporary control line. We have been doing this since the summer of 2020. Indeed, active activities are ongoing. If we had not agreed where the temporary check line was running, it would be very difficult for us to carry out the planned border construction, even less to place temporary delays on our external borders, which we are working with the Defence Forces to do in the event of additional training. Indeed, I say as an intermediate chord, I am extremely pleased that one of the objectives of the additional training gathering is to practice cooperation with the Police and Border Guard Board and, in the process, to establish temporary barriers to the border, precisely in those places where it is extremely important. When we're talking about border facilities, ready-to-be border gardens, temporary delay gardens, border guarding isn't just about these gardens. Border surveillance consists of three components: people, border guards, surveillance equipment and border infrastructure. By infrastructure, we mean a particular garden, but it includes patrol tracks and so on. From the perspective of border surveillance, these are very successful instruments and measures. Surveillance techniques give us an opportunity to detect and respond early, while the delay garden ensures that the reacting forces arrive quickly. In Estonia's legal space, border guards are indeed entitled to prevent illegal border crossings, including through coercion. No one has the right to illegally cross the external border; every country's sovereign right is to defend it. If we are talking about defending the border, or a situation where the border really needs to be protected, then of course we are also waiting for the defence forces to help. This is also one of the things we are practicing during the additional training. In short, border surveillance and border protection are somewhat different aspects. If the border needs to be protected, the defence forces will certainly come to our aid, and then there will be a completely different legal basis for vigorously defending our country.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U104	Mikhail Lotman, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U105	Thank you. Dear Minister, I admire your elegance, how you rephrased my question and answered what I didn't ask for and didn't answer what I asked for. That's why I'm gonna do another experiment. Yesterday, the Riigikogu voted down the proposal of the Isamaa Group to quickly build a physical barrier to prevent irregular migration to the interim control line of South-East Estonia. Our honourable President-in-Office called this proposal a political game and spoke for a long time about how difficult and labour-intensive it is to build a barrier and that it cannot be rushed. And not a single word about the border crisis on the border between Lithuania and Poland. Not a word! I am not going to ask you whether you really think that it is a political game to keep the Estonian control line. Do we really need to follow the plans that have been put in place years ago to ensure the security of our country, or can we make adjustments to them based on the dynamics of the current situation? Do you really think that the measures currently being implemented, the barbed wire reels that have been brought in and are being installed, are adequate for the potential threat? Will they withstand the attacks we see on the border between Lithuania and Poland?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U106	Thank you. At the moment, there is no immediate threat to the Estonian state from our external borders. Are temporary obstacles to delay placed at the border an adequate measure? I say that, along with surveillance equipment and the people who guard our external borders, it is enough. Of course, it is also important that we have sufficient situational awareness, pre-warning systems, so that, if necessary, we can further concentrate our action on, for example, those sections of the external border where this risk may be the most potential. This work is in itself everyday, both within the Police and Border Guard Board and with the help of our partners, the Defence Forces and external partners. We have also considered the risk that people who have illegally entered the European Union from Belarus, either through Latvia, Lithuania or Poland, may move across internal borders. The Police and Border Guard Board is also carrying out additional activities at our southern border, on the border with Latvia, and in addition at the port of Tallinn, in order to prevent Estonia from becoming an illegal transit country in order to move forward to the Nordic countries. As far as the construction of the border is concerned as a matter of urgency, I, too, am of course, of the opinion that we must contribute to building the border of the Estonian state more quickly. Faster completion of the state border is also by its very nature what we have done in the course of the additional training. Yes, it is temporary, and it is certainly not what will be a high-quality, built-up external border, for which there are very specific financing decisions to date. But I am in the process of conducting various meetings and discussions with the Minister of Finance to find additional financial resources to further enhance our ambition in border building. So, in any case, I am of the same opinion that, of course, the border must be built as soon as possible, with additional financial resources to do so. We are also working very actively on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U107	Now, the matter registered on the spot. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U108	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. My first request is, of course, that the important people of our country, ministers, especially those with legal education, use the terms'state border' and 'control line' very correctly. Otherwise, there will be a great deal of confusion, because we know that these are two very different things: a state border and a control line. But the question is that you said that, of course, it would be good if Estonia and Russia had a valid border agreement. Question: do we not have a valid agreement with Russia to establish a border between the two countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U109	Thank you for your question. Yeah, definitely very correct remarks. I have also said in my previous answers that it is certainly right to use the term 'control line'. What is really happening today is that the border agreement between Estonia and Russia has not been ratified. Indeed, I also said that my opinion is that this should definitely move forward. Of course, it also requires the willingness of the other side to move forward. It is extremely important in the view of border security that we have a valid border agreement with our neighbour, the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U110	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U111	Let us move to the eighth question put by Mart Helme to the Minister of the Interior, Kristian Jaan. The theme is the PBA fleet. Please, Mr. Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U112	[[Remote connection]] ... followed by the Border Agreement...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U113	Now, Mr Helme, can you start over with the question? Mr. Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U114	[[Remote connection]] ...no one gets over it or around it, Russia doesn't want to admit it, but that's a fact. And the new border agreement is a completely different matter. But the question is connecting the fleets, which has recently been read in the press. The previous government in which we participated was of the opinion that the interconnection of the fleets should not take place, because the fleet under the PBA is the only essentially multifunctional, constantly at sea and functioning fleet unit. And not to optimize, but to increase. The previous government also found EUR 42 million for ordering a new ship, which is known to be both chemical control capabilities, which Estonia is currently lacking in capacity, and also has a helicopter landing platform, so that sea rescue operations can be delivered more independently and not ask for assistance from Finland, Sweden and other countries every time. Now, it has been brought back to the agenda to unite the fleets and essentially to transfer the PBGB fleet to the Ministry of Defence, which of course does not take over pollution control commitments or sea rescue commitments. That's my question to you now. I said in my day that this connection would only happen over my dead body. Politically, I do not think I have a body yet, but I do not have a say in this matter at least at the moment as a minister. My question to you is what your position on this process is.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U115	Thank you. Indeed, at the meeting of the Government of 3 June, the decision was taken to move forward with an analysis and the corresponding working group was put together in the State Chancellery. The aim was to unite the Police and Border Guard Board and the Navy, or Defence Forces fleet. Very specifically, my assessment, position and guideline was that if such a merger were to happen, it would only happen if all the tasks carried out today by the police and border guard fleet, or four large ships, were to be transferred with the ships. Perhaps there can be no situation where, for example, the number of days at sea in the fleet of the Police and Border Guard Board is reduced, which is today 22000 hours of sea per four vessels. I would like to point out, in comparison, that when the Police Department and the Border Guard Board joined in 2010, there were seven ships that worked 5 000 hours at sea. Perhaps the efficiency of the PBA fleet is very high. Once again, when the fleets are united, and I believe that this can be done, it is very important that the respective tasks go along, whether it is a maritime pollution task, including management of the whole marine pollution sector and also policy-making, but also, for example, what is involved in maritime border surveillance. Perhaps the size of the resource and the fleet are also directly involved in the surveillance of the sea border, and then the task of guarding the sea border must also go to the Defence Forces. These are the important foundations which, if realised, will also allow the fleets to be brought together. The group has completed its work, and in the near future [the result] will also be presented in the government office.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U116	Mart Helme, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U117	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. My experience tells me that if the State Chancellery is made to do any such work, there will be no good skin. It is clear that the recommendation of the State Chancellery is to unite the fleets. All that goes along, of course, will not work. There are already so many legal differences that need to be resolved in this case. Defence forces are defence forces, border guards are border guards, police are police. Pollution control and rescue operations are completely different things. The experience of other countries, such as Lithuania, also says that, in fact, after this unification, everyone is unhappy. Why are we doing this? My question is specific. In this security situation, where we are now, to go play with some kind of restructuring, to go from a functioning system to a system that does not work is absolutely unthinkable and irresponsible. My recommendation to you, as a member of the government, is to propose to the government that the whole issue be postponed until there is a marked improvement in the security situation and the reorganisation of the functioning system does not constitute a security gap in our maritime capabilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U118	Thank you. Indeed, in the event that this merger takes place, it requires the amendment of quite a number of laws. But from a legal point of view, all of this has been appreciated and there are no obstacles, there are no constitutional obstacles why it cannot be implemented. Indeed, this requires a change in certain laws and basic regulations, because, as I said, when we talk about fleets, the only foundation that can be found is that the respective tasks also move along with these ships. There is nothing extraordinary about the fact that the navy should theoretically be responsible for guarding the sea border. For example, the Estonian defence forces are also responsible for guarding the air border. If we are also talking about what this transition period will be, of course, such transfers cannot take place overnight or even within a year. There is a specific transition period when this decision is taken, as well as a very specific implementing working group that will implement this decision when it is taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U119	Since we have agreed that we can ask a more specific question, I will stop discussing it. But I suggest that Mart Helme, on the question of my colleague, Mr Grünthal, when the Minister of the Interior is again answering about the police's activities, ask a question registered on the ground.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U120	We are now moving on to Question 9. The question of Paul Puustusmaa to Jaak Aab, Minister of Public Administration, who is known to be a prime minister. The subject is further perspectives on the reform of state and local government. Mr. Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U121	[[Remote connection]] ... to reform more effective and stronger has become plans and the perspective is quite vague at the moment. The draft of the state reform itself has been closed behind the seven Constitutional Committees of the Riigikogu after the turn of government in 2021 at the will of fine-tuning voters. However, part of the state reform has been implemented in 2017 as part of the administrative reform of municipalities. Partly because of the fact that the counties were essentially abolished, the boundaries of the rural municipalities were redeployed, as a result of which we now know we have 79 municipalities instead of 213 rural municipalities, and the phenomena that are not in accordance with the Constitution were created in the form of municipalities. However, ambiguity persists in the question of the obligations imposed by the State on the municipalities by law and their capacity to comply with them, in connection with the above, through funding. In other words, if the municipality carries out the tasks assigned to it by the State, both the task and the funding must be clear. In order to clarify this fact, the State itself should have a clear view of the obligations imposed by the municipality on the one hand and of the capacity to execute and also of the financing. The question is simply whether the reform of the municipality has succeeded. How should we proceed? Do existing local governments have all the elements of the structure required by the state, from education, social affairs, construction counsellors, waste stations and schools to nursing homes, or do there exist municipalities where state requirements are not met due to failure? Here's the question: does the state itself have a sufficient overview of whether an audit has been carried out on a per-municipal basis, showing compliance with state requirements, the ability of local authorities to cope with and the material support provided? Is there an audit?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U122	Thank you for the question. There was a lot of topic here, so I'll try to be as brief as possible. The administrative reform took place until 2017 and I would say "administrative territorial reform" because the functions of the municipalities did not change to a large extent, but in 2017 the government also decided to increase the revenue base of the municipalities considerably so that larger, more capable municipalities would receive more resources to organise local life. No such in-depth audit has been carried out directly. I know that the National Audit Office carried out an audit where it tried to evaluate the results of the reform from the point of view of peripheralisation. He chose ten municipalities, as far as I know, and assessed whether the trend of peripheralization in the new, larger municipalities would not get worse, or that the periphery of this larger government would be overlooked in different areas. The answer was, in general, no. At least in these ten municipalities, and I can assure you that even more broadly, this result has been even more positive. Very many of the investments that were not made in the smaller municipalities have now been merged, and it has been possible to do so in the larger municipalities. That is for two main reasons. [Firstly] the competences that exist in the municipalities have improved, i.e. officials and staff have a better competence. That's the analysis we did. While in the past there was one 0.2 [place] official in one field, 0.2 [place] in another, in the case of basic functions or basic services, there is now a competent full-time specialist in the municipalities. We have also launched a platform such as my own government.fin.ee, where each year we compare how advanced services, be they social services, education services, utilities services, have developed. There is a pretty good comparison of how this service has evolved over the years in a particular municipality, as well as a comparison with neighbouring municipalities and other municipalities. The overall trend is that these services are improving. I'm sure there's a lot to do. I have also been asked whether there will be a rapid return of some kind of national administrative reform towards the municipalities. I can say that neither the previous government coalition nor the current coalition have prepared or prepared any such reform. My proposal is to restore the merger grants from 2025, i.e. with regard to the following local authorities [elections]. Whether they come will be clear in the course of [making] the country's budget strategy in August.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U123	Paul Puustusmaa, more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U124	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. Let us then ask whether the state has an overview of the smaller municipalities in particular, how they can handle their tasks. Do they have any problems, do they have this overview and somehow find it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U125	Thank you for your question. If you mean whether it is precisely audited by sector, how it works and how it provides these services, then not. This platform, where data on municipalities are collected, has a circular of 20 metrics in each area, and this data is constantly evolving. I think that a certain degree of generalisation can be obtained from [platform] my own government.fin.ee from the [platform] for all areas that are relevant to the activities of the municipality, or from the services that the municipality must provide. Here was the question of how to proceed. We analyzed local governments like the basic law, the law on the organisation of local government. We've been working very hard on the panel for two years. And you know what's come up? First of all, the almost unanimous statement that the foundations of our local governments, the legal bases, are once well established at the beginning of the nineties. As we know, local governments have great autonomy in accordance with the Constitution. Rather, these proposals in the Committee of Experts are moving in that direction to give even greater decision-making powers, not to prescribe in very detailed terms how the council should organise local life, but to have greater rights to do so. This whole direction is towards what we have been trying to do in the negotiations and, together with the Ministry, to review whether there are other things where these labeled funds can be put on the revenue base so that the municipalities can decide more freely. Do they carry out tasks? It is very clear that these tasks, which the municipalities have as their main function, as a service, must, of course, be carried out. If they do not comply, then it is possible for a local resident or entrepreneur to turn to supervision and then supervision will check whether or not has been fulfilled.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U126	The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions about this point. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U127	Let us move to the tenth question by Kalle Grünthal to the Minister of the Interior, Kristian Jaan. The subject is police action. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U128	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister of the Interior! I remind you once again that I will use your testimony to gather evidence. The question concerns an issue such as the verification of the COVID certificate. In particular, with the order of the Government of the Republic, I stress: the control of the COVID certificate is placed on dining venues, sports halls, recreational activities, theatres, cinemas and so on, or essentially private sector. However, under the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases, only the Health Board, which may also involve the police in an emergency or emergency, may supervise the matter. I believe that there is no dispute: the law takes precedence over the order and the granting of the lawful order is based on the mandate contained in the law, or the delegation rule. As a result of the above, an absurd situation has arisen where, according to the law, supervision is to be carried out by an administrative body, but the order puts pressure on the private sector, which does not have a legal right to do so. Perhaps there is a new absurd conflict between two different branches of law, administrative law and civil law. The absurd situation continues, however, because the private sector is forced by order to break the law with a COVID certificate, even though the Personal Data Protection Act does not allow it. There's a conflict between the law and the government's order. Go on. By entering the police service, the policeman vows to be loyal to the constitutional order of Estonia and to be guided by the law. In this case, however, police chiefs are forcing a series of police officers to break [the law]. Perhaps you'd be willing to give orders in your area of responsibility regarding the violation of the law to stop the police from doing so? If you don't succeed, you could at least do it before you change the order.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U129	Police don't break the law. The police are involved in public supervision by the Health Board and help the Health Board to carry out supervision according to how the Health Board involves the Police and Border Guard Board and where the monitoring point is directed. This targeting must be primarily driven by where this monitoring has the greatest impact. When we talk about entrepreneurs who really have the obligation to check the COVID certificate in certain situations, that is to say, companies where this obligation is, 99.9% of businesses understand it and do it very well. After all, this is not a ban, it is simply a restriction in which an entrepreneur must make sure that the people to whom he provides the service are valid COVID certificates. In the present case, the person is checked for an existing COVID certificate, as well as whether the relevant certificate belongs to a particular person, perhaps it is also necessary to check the identity document. The result and contribution of this action has certainly also been that we see that we have a pandemic retreating in society. There has been a huge job here for our medical staff, there has certainly been a huge job here for people themselves who have understood how it is better to protect themselves, there has been a lot of work here for entrepreneurs, but there has certainly also been a contribution to monitoring, which has been done by both the Health Board and the Police and Border Guard Board. So once again, the Health Board, involving the Police and Border Guard Board in carrying out supervision, operates within the framework of current law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U130	Kalle Grünthal, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U131	Thank you, Mr President. I didn't understand the explanations, though. The Infectious Disease Prevention and Control Act specifically states that supervision and control are carried out by the Health Board. Which rule of law does the law, not the order, allow the private sector to exercise control? If we put the private sector in a situation where they have to look at some documents, they'll be in control. It's just a semiotic approach. Another thing is that because of this, they can also access personal data, sensitive data, which is health data: whether they have suffered or not. The Personal Data Protection Act does not authorise this. At the moment, however, we are still in the situation that, although the police are sworn to comply with the law without deviation, they are breaking the law in this case, because the Personal Data Protection Act does not allow third parties access to the person's health data. That's point one. Point two: placing such a control obligation is still supervision. Or are you suggesting otherwise?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U132	Thank you. The Chancellor of Justice and the Auditor General, as well as the Minister of Justice, of course, will also attend the meetings of the Government. It has never occurred that such action by either the Health Board or the Police and Border Guard Board, which is involved by the Health Board, would somehow be illegal. However, as I mentioned earlier today, Estonia is, of course, the rule of law. Any entrepreneur, any legal person, including any natural person on the street, can, for example, go to court to obtain the assurance that the arrangements and the laws under which both the Health Board and the Police and Border Guard Board operate to contribute to bringing the whole society out of the crisis are still legitimate. As far as I am aware, such appeals have not been made specifically towards the Health Board or the Police and Border Guard Board. Once again, if someone feels that this action is not legitimate, then there is certainly an opportunity to turn to both the court and the Chancellor of Justice. Once again, if anyone has that feeling, I'm sure you'll have to take that opportunity.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U133	I don't see any more questions. Still! Kert Kingo, please, a locally registered question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U134	Thank you. I'll take the word. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! You said that, to your knowledge, the grounds on which a private operator should be able to carry out checks on a person's medical certificate or medical records and whether or not it is permitted to process data and whether it is legal at all have not been contested. I know for a fact that he is being challenged in court and that everyone is waiting for the follow-up to his appeal. But I still rely on the theme highlighted by Kalle Grünthal. You mentioned that the Chancellor of Justice has been present, but we all understand that the police can enforce the law. You cannot normally impose an obligation on individuals, private persons, which by law is the responsibility of the agencies, i.e. the employees of the Health Board or police officers. Please tell me whether you and Elmar Vaher have discussed, for example, the legality of this order and the legality of the police, say, inspection activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U135	Thank you for your question. With the [Head] Director of the Police and Border Guard Board, Elmar Vaher, we have been discussing a wide range of topics. Their content, when we are talking about the supervision of COVID, has been above all where to be effective, where to be effective and what role the Health Board has to play in the view of how to manage the activities of the Police and Border Guard Board in supervision in the sense of where to target its supervision in order to be the most effective. But once again, I would like to stress that the Police and Border Guard Board, including the Health Board, will certainly operate within the framework of current law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U136	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U137	Ladies and gentlemen, Now we have 18 minutes left. Pre-registered questions have run out, which means that anyone who has a desire to ask can now ask. The procedure is that if you ask a question, please tell me which minister the question is addressed to, and then you can ask. Please! Kert Kingo is the first to register. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U138	I thank you, Mr President. Once again, Minister of the Interior, I did not receive any answers to my questions that I asked you here before. Then why don't you explain to the people who are watching this briefing what the basic values of the police are today, what they're doing at work, what they're supposed to stick to? What are these basic values?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U139	Thank you for your question. The police mission is to establish security in cooperation. The vision is that the Estonian police are the best police in the world. The police are indeed based on this and are working to be the best police force in the world for every person in Estonia. As I said earlier, above all, the aim is to be proactive, but there are situations where there must be a reaction, a resolute and an intervention. If necessary, coercion must be used as an extreme measure. To that end, the police are entitled to a law of order. So the law on law enforcement is certainly the law on which the police proceed in carrying out their activities. Police values are openness, wisdom and humanity. These are the values and on their behalf, once again, the police are acting. Our mission is also to cooperate with everyone else. Security also begins in our internal security development plan view of each of us, and that is what we are working for.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U140	Next, Kalle Grünthal!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U141	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister of the Interior, Kristian Jaani! I have a question for you. My question concerns death threats. As we know, such acts have been carried out anonymously against members of the Riigikogu, against Taavi Rõivas and, lastly, against Martin Helme, when an anonymous threat came. The police showed a very strong, beautiful response. Within a few days, the villain was in his hands and things were clear. The manager of the Paide Culture House received a death threat, which he announced on the "Ringview." It spread somewhere else, in the newspapers. Now it's almost been a month and a half. I would like to know the outcome of the [investigation] killing threat to the manager of the Paide cultural centre and who that person is. So far, every person who has committed a death threat has been released. I'd like some information on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U142	Thank you for your question. Indeed, there was a very brave manager of the cultural centre who behaved very well in such a situation. He asked for the relevant evidence to be provided to ensure that the event, which is to be conducted, is conducted in such a way that all people remain healthy. The Police and Border Guard Board has dealt with [the case] and identified the person who later made this so-called death threat in the case of the manager of this particular cultural house. It has also been found that there was no immediate risk of such an activity. There's been a direct conversation with him. I assure you that the intervention was quick and adequate, to make sure, indeed, that there is no real threat of such a death threat.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U143	And now, please, Mart Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U144	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister of the Interior! I will continue with the same subject that I had a question about before. Haven't you been discussing this at the ministry in my time, I was discussing it with the officials, and I was also discussing in the government that we need not to unite the fleets, but that we need to strengthen the fleets? This applies to both the PPA fleet and the naval units of the Defence Forces, navy troops. They need more, they need to be strengthened, they need to be armed. What I see right now is that in essence, Estonia's maritime capacity is being slowed down in a rapidly deteriorating security situation. The only argument is that this is the right thing to do. I don't think that's the right thing to do. I think it's right to increase the fleet. We used to figure out that we needed six offshore ships, we also need vessels for Peipsi that are able to operate there much more effectively than they are now. As far as the fleet and vessels of the Defence Forces are concerned, of course, the topics are different and they do not concern the Ministry of the Interior, but it is clear that those competences which are necessary for the Defence Forces cannot be met by the vessels of the PBGB. My question is: wouldn't you take it up and bring to the government the question of strengthening the fleet's capabilities, expanding the fleet's vessels, instead of making several fleets one emergency fleet?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U145	Thank you. First of all, when we're talking about fleets and connecting, we're not talking about inland waters and we're not talking about boundary waters, we're not talking about Lake Peipsi. The way in which the external border is guarded on Lake Peipus is the task of the Police and Border Guard Board, both today and in the future, including what is the so-called long view and strategy, which technical means, with which underwater Lake Peipus will be guarded on our external border, whether it be in summer or during the winter period, or whether it is when classic underwater movements cannot and must be used with other means of movement, such as floaters. On the contrary, I think that if the two fleets are assembled, the marine capacity can be improved, but I come back to [that] that it has certain prerequisites. These certain assumptions relate to the taking over of these tasks as well, the civil tasks performed today by four ships in the fleet of the Police and Border Guard Board. This also means that the number of days at sea for naval vessels must be greater in the future, i.e. by bringing them together or by joining them, if this decision comes, there must certainly be added value. One added value is a comprehensive view of the situational awareness of what is happening at sea. The second value is certainly that the number of days at sea, the number of large vessels at sea, regardless of the weather conditions, should be higher. But we are also talking about how people are monitoring the situation at sea using radar systems, how the radar systems are being upgraded, modified, to get an even better picture of what is going on in our maritime area, whether it is the traffic of warships from different neighbouring countries in the Gulf of Finland or the traffic of cargo ships. This also leads to different risks and risks associated with sea rescue. As of today, the Police and Border Guard Board should continue to be responsible for maritime rescue. Most marine rescue events also relate in particular to the coastal sea area and to small-scale vessels responding to most of the rescue events, the PPA small-scale vessels.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U146	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U147	Thank you. Once again, I thank the good chair for the opportunity to ask. Minister, thank you very much. I still want to find out about police work. On November 4, the police organized a coronare in Lasnamäe Centrum. There was a young woman with whom the cart was visualized by a child of one and a half years old. That woman had a mask in her face with her nose out. The whole media was full of pictures and videos, where four or five police officers, maybe one of them was also a public health officer, could not comment on the fact that he immediately began to be physically removed from [the house]. I didn't see any prevention here, I didn't see any prevention. All the more so when you stressed that the police are working to ensure the safety of every person, to help each person, in this case, this woman was physically expelled from the hands of two men, a police officer. The woman had a little child with her, the mother could do nothing about the child, and she had to make sure that the child was still taken or where the child was. Mom, let's say they took it to the police car. It's been published everywhere. You're saying that police internal control should deal with this kind of thing. I want to know if the police's internal control is dealing with this inhuman behavior. They can't say they don't know, because the whole media was pretty much conquered by this incident. Do you really think that's the right thing to do? This isn't prevention. Is that what you think it is to protect people and make people feel safe? The way that little child was safe, I can't imagine it, and the way she felt safe.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U148	Thank you for your question. What we consume in the media is generally only the final phase of the whole event or sequence of events that we see. The police will certainly not intervene in such a way that the first measure is the use of force against a person, but it will also be preceded by a conversation, verbal warning and clarification as to why a mask should be proposed for a specific example. Once again, 99,99% of people understand this very well. Some, a very small part, are not subject to the legal orders of the police, and physical force can also be used as an extreme measure in such situations. In this case, the safety and security of the child were guaranteed; this woman was not alone there. Once again, it is not worth drawing conclusions from what we see in the media as a so-called final stage of this situation. It was already a phase after the event had escalated.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U149	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U150	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. In addition to Kert Kingo's question, I say that we no longer live in Stalin's time when propaganda tells us how things are. Today's recording tools show very well how the event began, how it progressed. We may not see him end up somewhere in the precinct. But basically we saw very well that it was inhuman that occurred during this Lasnamäe incident. It was inhumane, just like it is inhumane and the police embarrassing, in which way some are being bullied...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U151	Mr. Helme, who are you asking?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U152	[[Remote connection]] ... entrepreneurs. Huge police forces are sent to their necks every day, and fines are imposed every day. Honestly, stop it! If I were a minister, I'd intervene forcefully and call the police officers to order. There is no basis for such brutal conduct, the dignity of people underfoot. But I still have a question about the fleet. I fully understand that you have given up. For you, it's perfectly okay that our defence fleet, made up of four nutshells, gets decent ships thanks to the PBA and that the PBA is essentially left empty-handed. You refuse to look at the matter with this focus, as I have set out, that there is a need to increase capabilities, more ships are needed for both the defence forces and the PBA, more action needs to be made, more monitoring techniques need to be provided, and all this can be done. You've got this whole focus shifting away. This is not a matter for you at all. I'm seriously asking you to think about these things. I know the Home Office officials agree with me rather than with the current government course.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U153	Minister of the Interior, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U154	Thank you for that comment. When the working group started its work, I set very specific preconditions and a foundation for what these starting points should be so that we could get there so that the ships of the two institutions could be put together. This is not a purely mathematical operation, and it is not only a mathematical operation that can be evaluated as to whether the future situation is better or not. This is a comprehensive view of unified management, up to what future capabilities of the ships concerned will be, not what capacity is specifically at this point in time. The Defence Forces, the Navy, will have to replace their naval bases in the near future, just as the Police and Border Guard Board will be affected, not right away, but in the near future, with the exception of one particular ship, this is Pikker, which will have to be replaced in the near future. So the visions for the future, for which this topic should be analysed today, are likely to reach decisions, are very numerous and cannot be just a mathematical process. Based on the mathematical equation, no conclusions can be drawn as to whether this is better or worse. As I said, it concerns radar systems, people who monitor radar systems, evaluate, control events, and so on. The very wise group of experts will certainly know how to implement this activity in concrete terms when this decision is taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U155	Honourable Riigikogu! It's 1:58 a.m. and seconds, which means there's a few minutes to the hearing. I thank the members of the government for taking part in Question Time. Thank you all for asking. We shall proceed immediately to the sitting of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U156	Honourable Riigikogu! We will start the 9th working week session of the VI plenary session on Wednesday. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please! I don't see that wish. Then we'll do a presence check. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U157	86 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present. Now there are some clarifications on the agenda. Uh, procedural. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U158	Thank you. I can ask my question even after the agenda has been clarified, but since you gave the floor, I will ask you right away. In fact, on Monday, there was a draft debate in this Riigikogu Chamber 435, in the case of the Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic, whether it requires a majority of 51 votes or a simple majority of votes. The meeting manager Jüri Ratas took a break, and the Riigikogu Board allegedly discussed this and shaped the position. I have a question whether the Board of the Riigikogu decided anything. Is there some kind of written decision that we can get acquainted with, and where are these arguments? And is it also available to members of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U159	Yes, the board also discussed and decided and consulted, of course, people who have worked for a long time in this house and who have a memory of precedents. The decision was to continue with the current practice. The current practice has been through the formations such that [a majority of] votes are required. This protocol is under way, and I think it is already available to everyone today. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U160	Thank you, Mr President. I have a question about the same thing, but actually, about your answer. How many people did you find in the house with memories? How many did you consult?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U161	I think there were seven people at the table. Tarmo Kruusimäe, do you want to ask for a procedure? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U162	Thank you, good vice chairman. With reference to practice, it may also be that we are now in the way of the matter, and you are still in the format of remote sessions. This can always be done if a political group proposes to do so. Can it not become a practice for us that quite soon another group will do so? Because originally, when we legitimized this remote session thing, it was still caused by the health indicators and all these other variables. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Has it also been under discussion that it would be a one-time bad precedent, if we're in the way of the matter, or that there might be a risk that we're going to change the procedure now, let's say again that in practice it's already been tried and it was nothing wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U163	Yes, at yesterday's Bureau meeting, the address of the Isamaa Group was also discussed and asked to stop teleworking, in principle, immediately. We came to the conclusion that since the large hall has voted that we are at a remote session until Thursday this week, 25 November, we are not going to reschedule it in the Bureau. We also did not see much prospect of coming back to the big hall with a proposal to finish teleworking the day before. It is now the case that our teleworking, first by a non-consensual decision of the Bureau and later by a majority vote of the large hall, will last until 25 November, after which we will automatically return to our regular work. Now if anyone makes a request again before our December sessions, then the Bureau will have to discuss it, and if there is no consensus, we will come back to the Chamber. But right now, teleworking automatically stops on 25 November. As far as the precedent is concerned, well, precedents are the kind of thing you always have to be careful about, yes. Urmas Reinsalu is a procedure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U164	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I cannot agree with the Bureau's view that, if the practice so far has been one, it is like a presumption that this practice has been constitutional. Well, there wouldn't be any spiritual progress in that logic either. This reminds me of some inquisitors who refused to look at Galileo's telescope. It's time to think a little bit more. And I would like to clarify the question of Helir-Valdor Seeder: did the board make a decision? If the Bureau made a decision, I would ask the President to quote it. The question is that in our view, in the view of the Fatherland Group yesterday, the Riigikogu adopted a motion to Parliament by majority votes. I understand that the board has a different interpretation of this concept. And the question is: how can Members defend their right? Through which courts and how can this disputed decision or non-judgment be established, through legal protection, is he or she legitimate in the sense of judicial review? Those two questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U165	I can't read that word out of my head right now. The fundamental position was that, as far as we know, we were unable to return, at least in this or in the previous composition, to a situation where such a proposal to the Government of the Republic would have been adopted by a majority of 51 votes. For me and for you, Urmas, the argument in itself is always that it has always been done. Eventually, the Conservatives view things like this. But there were also legal arguments that were given to us by the people of the Legal Department, who said that, since proposing to the Government of the Republic could lead to a change of law, and since precepting the executive power by Parliament is basically a similar act as mistrusting the Minister or giving authority to the Government, the formation of this 'threat threshold' is logical, and so has always been dealt with. These were the main arguments. Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U166	Thank you. I'm a little puzzled. In my opinion, the Republic of Estonia, with its legal space, belongs to Continental Europe, but not to Islamic legal practice, where, on the one hand, there are fixed laws, Sharia, but, on the other hand, any decision could be based on an adadade, i.e. customs that were developed even before Islam, so we simply follow the custom. However, I am particularly puzzled when the proposals to build up barriers to the control line are equated with government mistrust. It is very subtle and, again, it is not based on a European, continental European legal space, but rather on Anglo-American case law, which is generally not characteristic of Estonia. Am I wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U167	Extremely complex construction. I do not think we need to bring here the practice of Islam. We do indeed have a constitution, and the Constitution is continental. However, in interpreting our constitution and our laws, the precedent has a completely existing role to play. As we have identified, neither this membership nor the previous membership, regardless of the content of the proposal, and the content of the proposal, which we briefly looked at, have been extremely different, not only to amend the laws, to carry out analyses, but also to simply decide on certain specific matters, but there has always been an approach that requires 51 votes. Nor was it possible for us to identify any such paragraph that would say that this is not the case, in any way contrary to the law, to our Rules of Procedure or to the Constitution. Rather, if there were to be some sort of dual understanding or a grey area, it would be more of a dual understanding or a grey area, as well as earlier approaches and previous practice suggesting that this 51 vote requirement has been accepted so far by all of us. We all agree. If someone says at one point that we will no longer accept it, then the subject must be reviewed and reviewed, but so far everyone has accepted it and it has never been challenged. One reason is that everyone has, however, understood these paragraphs in a relatively uniform way; everyone has understood them in a similar way. And the question that was left in the air was how members of the Riigikogu can defend their rights. For example, a member of the Isamaa Group turned directly to the Supreme Court on the subject of teleworking, and the Supreme Court even took the matter up. So even though this road is narrow, it still exists. Urmas Reinsalu, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U168	[[Remote connection]] Well, the question is, indeed, I agree with Professor Lotman, a comparative cultural expert, that this Islamic legal practice has now begun to take root in the board. I'd be very careful how to cultivate it. The problem is, the dispute is that yes, the decision of the Riigikogu can be challenged by an interested person, but now the question is whether the decision is or is not. That's the question. The courts contesting the non-acceptance of a decision are highly political. But I would like to come to the interpretation that came to me, as Mr President of the sitting said. In fact, the Bureau took the view that making a proposal to the government would be comparable to a motion of censure on the government, which in fact means that it is legally binding. Like this? Or what did that interpretation mean? Since this practice comes to my ears for the first time, and in a very modern way, I would ask the President of the sitting to open up this reasoning so that we are aware of it. Does this mean, then, that the unrealized proposal to the government will lead to the resignation of the government? Or what exactly did this parallel mean, as a parallel thought of such a strong legal force?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U169	The decision exists, the decision has been made, the decision has been formulated. I understand that it will be available to everyone today. So there's a decision on paper and you can see it. That, we were talking about the appointment or mistrust of the government ♪ its description or interpretation was such that if the Riigikogu, with its draft decision, gives the government some responsibility, then the government will not be able to fulfil this obligation. He has a real responsibility to do something that the Riigikogu has told him to do, and there is very little room for manoeuvre to carry it out. In this sense, it is, in essence, such a line of thought that it also requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu. The additional argument was that, probably in very many cases, not always, but probably in very many cases, the Riigikogu proposal also involves amending the law, so it is very risky to just do it with a simple majority because we have a whole series of laws that also require a majority vote in the composition. Again to Urmas Reinsalu, please, word!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U170	[[Remote connection]] Mr President of the sitting! This gets very interesting, this reasoning has become very interesting, it is mandatory. The word 'proposal' in itself, yes, according to my memory, I must admit, has been interpreted by Members of Parliament by a broader interpretation. This may not be right, but it has been interpreted as meaning 'invitation'. Now it turns out that the government must comply with this immediately. But, Mr President, if we imagine, and actually, it is time to say that the government should act more decisively in the current security crisis, and Parliament is calling for what, in the opinion of the President of the sitting, should be done and what will be the result if he does not?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U171	I'll start with where that logic came from. If we read this yellow book, it is now a comment, right: "The decision by which the Riigikogu proposes to the government to initiate a specific draft law requires a majority of the composition of the parliament to be adopted in accordance with § 103 (2). In the light of § 73 of the PS, a majority of the votes cast shall suffice for a decision containing other proposals. Normally, however, all such decisions are based on the provisions of § 103 (2) of the PS and require a majority of the Riigikogu's membership, i.e. at least 51 votes in favour. In favour of this practice, one draft decision often contains proposals from the government to initiate the draft as well as calls for other actions. In so far as these decisions are politically binding proposals [... ], justifies the requirement of at least 51 votes in relation to § 97 (1) of the PS, according to which the Riigikogu can express censure on the government by a majority of its composition." That was the logic I was talking about here. I'm sorry, I'm not a lawyer, and maybe that's why I messed up a little bit, but that's what I was referring to. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U172	Thank you, Honourable Manager. I did receive the answer to my first procedural question that the Board of the Riigikogu has discussed and made a decision. At least there will be an opportunity to challenge the decision of the Riigikogu Board in the Supreme Court if necessary. I hope that we will go this way so that we can clarify the dispute that has arisen. And that's why I asked if there was a decision or not. At least it's a decision. What took place in the Chamber of Riigikogu, it was as if a decision had been taken with 27:26 votes, but since the President interpreted it as necessary 51 votes in composition, it was as if the decision had not been taken, and if the decision had not been taken, it would have been difficult to challenge it because there was no decision. But we can challenge the board's decision. But my question is based on your explanation of Urmas Reinsalu's questions. First of all, if there has been a practice so far, that we are breaking a single law or constitution, and at one point we realise that it is no longer sensible to do so, even though we have done so far, then it is perfectly appropriate to change that practice. We should all be evolutionary people. But there was an interesting explanation, which would need to be answered immediately, because there are others here to vote on 51 votes immediately. If the government has an obligation, we need 51 votes. Should there be 51 votes for all decisions of the Riigikogu where the government is obliged? I am not talking about drafting a law here, because our draft decision did not provide for the drafting of a law either. The various missions and other decisions made by the Riigikogu are, after all, compulsory for the executive. Do you need 51 votes everywhere?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U173	The word used by the executive edition is a 'politically binding' proposal, a politically binding proposal, which can also be associated with § 97 (1) of the Constitution, according to which the Riigikogu can express a censure on the government by a majority of its component members. It was the expression "politically binding" used at that meeting. Again, if I used another expression, I apologize for causing confusion. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U174	Thank you. You don't have to apologize, it's a collective decision for you, and collective creation is always the wisdom of several people together. But a politically binding decision means that the decision of missions in the Riigikogu is not politically binding on the government? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U175	No, I'm sure you can't interpret that. It's fun, yeah. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U176	Thank you. I still have a question: what about a politically binding decision? They should all demand 51 votes. Now you have admitted that it is true that there is also a full political commitment to missions, i.e. it is mandatory and it is politically binding. Then why isn't there 51 votes? I don't understand that interpretation now. We need to make these things clear: the future votes that will come immediately, how to act and when one or the other decision has actually been taken, whether a simple majority or a majority of composition is needed. In my opinion, all our decisions and laws that the Riigikogu adopts are also politically binding on the government. No different decisions and laws will be passed by Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U177	Still sometimes takes statements and stuff like that. Yes, I understand, but the Riigikogu still has a broader toolbox. But that shouldn't be confusing. We write in two places, in the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act and Constitution, those laws that need either 51 votes, some need 61 votes, the amendment of the Constitution requires even 81 votes. These thresholds are set here both by the Rules of Procedure and by the Constitution. I'd deny or deny a bit that we've broken the law in some way so far. I can't agree. So far, everyone has understood in the same way that this 51 vote requirement for a draft decision is legitimate, law-based. Nor has the Isamaa Group itself ever raised this issue before, either if it has been on the side of the government or if it has tabled these same draft decisions, so that it should not be done. We now have a situation where, in some way or for some reason, it has been discovered that it could actually be different. And I'm totally in, and I'm willing to make sure it's settled. But I'm not sure we're going to be able to settle this by debating the remote from here, I basically think that the final solution can actually be brought to the Supreme Court. I don't see that we have any other way of doing it. Or if we make some kind of clarification in the Rules of Procedure Act that everyone understands in the same way and agrees. This, however, leads us back to the fact that we have had these Rules for 20 years soon, with minor changes, and so far everyone has understood in the same way. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U178	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. In fact, the Rules of Procedure Act does not regulate this issue in such detail, otherwise there would be no dispute. If the Rules of Procedure Act were to include this, the question would be whether the Rules of Procedure Act is constitutional. But now we've come to a very spacious complex of problems, and we have to start opening it up by elements. The first round of questions concerned this: the President of the Riigikogu mentioned on Monday that the Riigikogu Board also discussed this issue this spring. I think he even said it was May. I have a request. At the moment, you, the President of the sitting, said that no one has ever opened this problem before, and no one has handled it at all from this angle, like the Isamaa Group on this working week. But the Chairman of the Riigikogu said that it was already discussed in the spring of the Riigikogu's management board. I have a request that you answer the following questions: (a) did the information of the Chairman of the Riigikogu from Monday be true, (b) whose request this was discussed, and (c) did the position of the board be shaped? Now for the second round of topics. This interpretation of political bindingness as a requirement of a higher quorum of the Riigikogu Act, or majority of its composition, I think, does not suffer any criticism. And this is certainly very important in a possible legal dispute, your assessment of what was the justification. So I'd like to clarify that. According to this logic, political bindingness requires a higher quorum than legal binding. Does the Board of the Riigikogu distinguish between political and legal bindingness? Is political commitment legally binding or should it be legally binding when adopting Parliament's acts with a lower quorum? The interpretation of political binding is, I think, highly debatable. Because in the case of the Riigikogu, we are talking about the rights of Members of Parliament and we understand perfectly that the debate is about the interpretation of rights. Similarly, if the governing board of the Riigikogu came together and decided that 101 Members' consent was required for some act, as was the case in the old Polish Parliament, it would undoubtedly create a different legal situation when dealing with some specific issue. The Constitution has given a very clear reservation to the majority of the composition of the catalogue. And I also refer to the historical interpretation. Did the Bureau also examine the pre-war constitution, of which the design of the proposal actually came as a derivative? This historical argument, too, is now in favour of the position of the Isamaa Group. My question, however, is this: what logic does it make to distinguish political binding from legal binding if the Constitution does not give such a mandate? If there is a parallel to a motion of distrust, I say that a motion of distrust is legally binding, not politically binding. This is a completely different category. In the case of a motion of distrust, the government has fallen from office when it is distrusted, and as a politically binding category, the actual and clear follow-up of this act is obscured.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U179	First of all, yes, it is true, on May 20th of this year... I'm sorry! On 9 May 2020, the Bureau meeting, the members of the Bureau, Henn Põlluaas, Helir-Valdor Seeder and Siim Kallas discussed exactly the same question as to whether the draft decision needed 51 votes to propose to the government. At that time there was a unanimous decision by the Bureau was underlined that there was also the participation of Helir-Valdor Seeder that, yes, the 51 vote requirement has always been and will remain valid. This has been the second time we have been on the board this year, and the Bureau has been consistent here, so that the composition of the Bureau is now the second, it has changed. You can poke me, but I'm not going to a legal debate or a discussion on political commitment and everything else. It's not just this format. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U180	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. In my opinion, this is now a situation in which it is very fundamental. Therefore, I recall, first of all, that no comment in itself creates law or law; no comment in law creates it. If we look at practice, it can sometimes be both and sometimes so, and if we also look at constitutional comments, they sometimes change and quite significantly. In this case, however, we must accept the protests of the Fatherland. And, in my opinion, this is a very fundamental issue which, without a final solution, we cannot essentially move forward. Because if we are still proposing to the Government of the Republic, which is not a law, but a proposal, it is a proposal that can or cannot be accepted. No mandatory content can be created here by itself; it is precisely as it is worded. At the moment, it seems to me that, when this decision is taken, such an inception that a majority of the Riigikogu is required is a bit overstretched, which is clearly unfounded. In fact, the President of the sitting of the Riigikogu has essentially exceeded his mandate when he confirmed that the decision had not been taken, although the majority was in favour of the decision. I would also like to remind you that it is clear here that this is still a violation of the Riigikogu's domestic and operating rules law, a violation of procedures that the President has said quite recently that there is a contradiction with the Constitution itself in this situation. Perhaps the decision taken on the basis of such an infringement is invalid.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U181	Thank you. Like I said, I don't see any other solution here than the fact that it will end up in court, and then the court will consider and evaluate. I cannot agree in any way that this 51 vote request is in any way unfounded. On the contrary, I would say precisely that it is completely unreasonable to change the practice that has been in at least three if not four in the last Riigikogu. Ten years of practice has been the same, and now because the voices are not coming together, as they say, that we are changing the practice that has been in the three compositions. Now that's unwarranted behavior. I don't see that there's been any violation of the section around here. And if so, it has been throughout the three-fourth Riigikogu and no one has ever discovered it before. I do not understand the right of the chairman or board to simply decide that we are now doing differently. Now that's unreasonable to me. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U182	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I think an experienced lawyer will always recognize his mature balanced statement. Paul has not eaten the legal bread, the bread of the Chairman of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu. I'm totally joining his line of reasoning, clean, clear and clear about the legal approach. The President himself, who takes views on the constitutional nature of the conduct, also admitted that he was not a lawyer in a professional capacity. In fact, the board was counseled by lawyers. I would also point out that, paradoxically, the comments of the Rules of Procedure Act have in fact been prepared primarily by practicing lawyers who have also advised the Riigikogu's management. And, of course, that's what's adopted the practice so far. I would like to draw attention to what the President of the sitting said slipped past, there was the word 'usually', i.e. it has not usually been done. I would ask you to explain, if we have already done so, that the board of the Riigikogu uses the term 'normal' in this comment. Did the lawyers explain to the board the meaning of the word "normally"? Secondly, I didn't get an answer to that. It was said here that no one has ever challenged it. But why did the Riigikogu board discuss it at once in 2020? What was the incentive? I would ask for an explanation on whose request or in what context this was put on the agenda. Thirdly, the reference to Helir-Valdor Seeder is not relevant in that sense if it should now be to put this thing in place. Galileo also reached out to his understanding after his calculations, after his heavenly observation. And that's the sign of progress. This is not a problem, but it is actually an opportunity for all of us to have a constitutional interpretation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U183	I'm not in a hurry. We have a meeting today until ten o'clock tomorrow. I'm not going much into a substantive discussion with you on this. On Monday it was discussed in depth in this very Chamber and it has been discussed further in the meantime. I guess lawyers like to discuss it. I'm not a lawyer, I'd like to move on to the meeting, but we're gonna finish the procedure nicely. Of course, I agree: the fact that Helir-Valdor Seeder attended a meeting at the beginning of the year, where this matter was also discussed and where his opinion was different from that of today's people can really change their views when some new circumstances appear or some reason is there. I don't have any complaints here, people's ability to learn is a good thing. We may be asking these questions here, but I'm not going to go along with any substantive answers here. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U184	Thank you. First of all, Urmas, I thank you for comparing me to Galileo. But to the chairman of the meeting, however, I would say that we really need to work here and discuss it and finally get to the heart, because this is a very important issue. After all, the Monday vote showed that there was support for the simple majority of Parliament's votes on this draft decision. So much depends on how we interpret it, whether the great Chamber of Parliament made a decision and adopted it or not. This is a very fundamental issue and a substantive issue, not just a formal one. But I want to make a little comment. Here, however, the President has failed to comment on my opinion and position that I have changed my position. No, it's not. On the contrary, the fact that this issue was raised a long time ago, i.e. in 2020, shows that there have already been problems and questions around this issue. It has not been as the President said, and as you claim today, that there has always been the same interpretation, that no one has protested or challenged it, but now suddenly for the first time this question has arisen. No, it's not. That question has been in the air before. I remember very well my participation in this Bureau meeting, where this issue was raised, precisely from the same point of view. We took note of the explanations of the officials, but I did not ask for this large hall to be put to the vote because it would not have solved the issue. And here I agree with you that we will probably get an answer when we pass through the Supreme Court. So I agree with you in this respect and promise that I will no longer bother you with the procedure on this issue, because there is a decision of the Riigikogu that can be challenged.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U185	It seems to me, however, that I was not essentially talking about the issue being raised, but I was talking about the fact that it has always been done. If the issue has been raised, as it seems to be, it has been concluded that the way it has been done is legitimate. I just want to say that what we're doing here today is not the right format. If we want to have a debate on this, my proposal would be to hold it in the body of elders. It is possible to invite lawyers, specialists and representatives of the political groups. Everyone in there can talk peacefully. At the moment, we really cannot, in very essence, have a debate here. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U186	[[Remote connection]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U187	Thank you. But still, we still have procedural questions. Please, Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U188	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. I want to support Valdo Randpere and say that we will work and work with results. The artificial obstacle that the Bureau has currently placed before Parliament makes it difficult to work. That was the case with yesterday's decision, and it is actually the same with the next decision. We will also have exactly the same debate on the next decision on the threshold for a proposal for renewable energy by the social democrats for the government. So we are not getting out of this debate. It may be thought that this is an irrelevant question, but an apology, if you follow the interpretation of the chairman of the sitting and the Riigikogu board and take it in a way that is binding on the government, then there is a very serious question: we need to build the border as a matter of urgency. The Committee on State Budget Control today received an overview of the shortcomings in financing the faster development of the border, and also of the fact that the proposed border is mouse holes where there are so-called physical barriers in several places that are planned, more rapid funding is needed. The police director also found that if additional funds were allocated for the following year, this would also lead to a faster completion of the border. Now the question is whether this decision was taken, whether or not the government has to find this money in next year's budget. I understand that the President of the sitting points out that this is a question of the Court. But I would now ask the President of the sitting for an explanation, because this is such an important issue and concerns a large amount of money. If the Supreme Court says that the decision of the Riigikogu was, in fact, adopted by 27 votes this week, does this mean that the government has an obligation to allocate additional money for faster border construction once the Supreme Court's decision enters into force? What is this interpretation, Mr President?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U189	I certainly cannot give that interpretation. I just want to draw attention to this: if the Riigikogu finds that the government is unable to build the border and defend the border, then there is such a thing in the arsenal of the Riigikogu as publishing a mistrust of the minister or the entire government for failing to do their job, and it has a threshold of 51 votes. Looks like there's no more procedure. Thank you, colleagues. But we got a lot smarter. Now we have to clarify the agenda. There are some clarifications on the amendments made by the rapporteurs to today's draft committee. On today's third item, the second reading of draft 467 will be presented by Siret Kotka, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee. Secondly, on today's ninth item on the agenda, the third reading of draft 431 will be presented by Mr Sõerd, Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Thirdly, on item 13, which is the first reading of draft 485 OE, a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Oudekki Loone, will make a presentation. Fourthly, on today's 19th item, which is the second reading of draft 458, Aivar Kokk, Vice-President of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, will make a presentation. The fifth amendment or clarification is on the 21st item, the second reading of draft 469, where Aivar Kokk, Vice-President of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, will make a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U190	In yesterday's session, we did not have the final vote on 428 OE, since the session was over, and today we will continue with this. The negotiations were held, and indeed we only have a final vote to make. I'll put in a hall call. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading and final vote of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" submitted by the Group of the Social Democratic Party has now passed from yesterday's agenda, which requires, although it is a controversial issue, the majority of the composition of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U191	The proposal was supported by 39 delegates, 30 against and no abstentions. The draft did not receive 51 votes and was not supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U192	Let's get back to the agenda. Today's second item is the second reading of Bill 403 of the Act amending the Employment Contracts Act and the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Urve Tiidus, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please! Oh, I'm sorry! The procedure is prior. Wait a minute. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U193	[[Remote connection]] Just so that it could not be said that it was a consensusary parliamentary convention, a reference was made to what the President of the sitting formulated emphatically that, as a draft decision of the Social Democrats, no support could be found for the government on renewable energy charges, because it did not receive a majority of the membership, for the sake of the parliamentary verbatim and for the sake of future legal dispute, I would confirm that there are compelling differences of opinion. My conviction is that Parliament supported this and also the interpretation by the President of the sitting of political affiliation, i.e. politically binding, Parliament insists with this decision on the abolition of renewable energy charges for taxpayers.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U194	Thank you. Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U195	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Today we will continue to read the second reading of the draft Act amending the Employment Contracts Act and the Tax Administration Act. As a reminder, the law seeks to allow the use of a variable hour agreement in the retail trade, i.e., even more easily, to allow more flexible employment contracts. More specifically, in addition to their normal working hours, a staff member may carry out additional work for a maximum of eight hours per seven-day period, subject to approval of the draft. On 8 November, the Committee on Legal Affairs decided that the second reading of the draft would be suspended in plenary on 10 November, and so was the case. On 8 November, the Commission also proposed a consensual proposal setting the deadline for amendments at 16 a.m. on 12 November. Jürgenson, Kannimäe, Karilaid, Kaskpeit, Kruusimäe, Pikhof, Half-Amets, Tiidus and Toomast made a consensus decision. At the meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs on 15 November, the draft law amending the Employment Contracts Act and the Tax Administration Act continued to be prepared for the second reading and the third reading. By 12 November, that means by the deadline, no new amendments to the draft were received from the Riigikogu or elsewhere. And so the Commission decided to submit a draft for the second reading in its unaltered state. Procedural decisions were also taken and are as follows: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 23 November, to date, to propose that the second reading be closed and, when the second reading is closed, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda and that the final vote be held on 25 November. All the decisions were consensual, and so did Jürgenson, Kannimäe, Karilaid, Kaskpeit, Kruusimäe, Pikhof, Half-Amets, Tiidus and Toomast. Thank you very much. That's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U196	Thank you very much. I don't see any questions. Ah. I'm sorry, Urve! There's a question on Tarmo Kruus Hill. Yes, please, Tarmo!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U197	[[Remote connection]] Good vice chairman! Good waitress! [[I can't hear the next one.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U198	Let's try it again. You're on now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U199	Yeah, I'm in my office right here, well, at the long-distance hearing, it's not that far, 50-60 meters. My question. This bill was time-critical and was one of the measures to get out of the corona conditions. He's not in the way of today, is he? Or is the need for this amendment of the law still acute?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U200	Thank you, Tarmo Kruusimäe, who you are also a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs. There is no time left, there is a necessary change, and it will probably continue to be necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U201	I don't see any more questions. We can open negotiations. I don't see a negotiation request. No amendments to this draft were tabled. The commission has proposed that the second reading of draft 403 be discontinued. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U202	Today's third item is draft law amending the Health Insurance Act 467 initiated by the Government of the Republic, as well as second reading. The rapporteur is Siret Kotka, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U203	[[Remote connection]] The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act after the first reading on 15 and 18 November. As no amendment came and the only amendment was linguistic, the Social Committee unanimously approved everything and made the following decisions: to take the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu, including by 23 November, which was yesterday, the second reading, and when the second reading of the draft is closed, the Commission's proposal for a final vote at third reading, including on 8 December. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U204	Thank you very much. It is possible to ask questions. I don't see any questions. In that case, we can go to the negotiations and there is a wish for a speech. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U205	Thank you, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Maybe with this bill, we'd go back a little bit in history. In 2017 the Social Democrats, while in the government, fulfilled their promise to the electorate, on 1 July, a renewed form of adult dental care allowance came into force under the leadership of the Social Democrats. As of 1 July 2017, all persons covered by adult health insurance began to receive compensation at a limit of EUR 30 per year and EUR 40 per share as of 1 January 2018 and the share was 50% of the marginal price. At the same time, dental care for pensioners, people with special needs, pregnant women and mothers with small children increased from EUR 19 to EUR 85. The own contribution of these persons is 15% of the marginal price for services. What I'm going to say is that the compensation is in kind. The patient doesn't get the money, but it moves directly from the health insurance fund to the service provider. In 2018, the compensation was worth EUR 12 million. Maybe some people today will ask why they didn't do it right away and at once and more. Because then it was in the budget. The idea of social democracies in setting up dental benefits for adults was, and is, that annual dental benefits must increase and, at the same time, their own participation must decrease, also in the case of target groups receiving a higher threshold. Dental benefits have helped more people to see a dentist. The main beneficiaries of the benefit are pensioners and those with partial or lack of work capacity, as is clear from the analysis of the application of dental care benefits. After the entry into force of the adult dental care benefit in 2017, both the number of dental first visits, the number of more frequent visits to the doctor and the use of the benefit from year to year increased. The Social Democrats support every step taken to expand the range of people benefiting from the increased threshold, in other words, the unemployed and beneficiaries of income support also receive compensation at the increased threshold. Research shows that we still have too many people who do not take care of their oral hygiene and do so even when dental care is free. Studies have been carried out at different times, but the same picture is drawn. As a result, more emphasis must be placed on prevention, as it would help prevent or detect diseases early, and it is also important to put emphasis on communication, especially among children and young people. If you come to the National Audit Office's audit, it says that the current conditions for receiving compensation leave people with a greater need for treatment in trouble. "The auditor's report points out that even preferential benefits do not improve the availability of dental care, as the protection of people with high medical needs from high healthcare costs remains very low and ineffective. In dental care, people's own costs are high, according to recent data, nearly three times higher than in healthcare in general. " As a result, we need to take further steps to ensure that people with greater need for treatment and a thin wallet reach the dentist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U206	Thank you very much. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U207	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! I didn't intend to speak, but... I like this bill, and we like it. Recently, in the Special Committee on State Budget Control, we discussed dental benefits in closed session, and now in open session, we talked about what the situation really is. When 2017 started it apart from all these beautiful numbers, how many adults it is possible to get in, then the closed discussion was quite painful. In fact, officials do not want to say that if the annual cost is 13, 14 or 15 million, then, as I said in the committee's closed session, a third, or something like that, goes to the left, well, actually to the right. This means that here we should look differently at where this money goes, whether it reaches the people who need it more and whose mouth, unfortunately, is often like a graveyard, these are rural and low-income people. There should be a substantial differentiation and a review of the system, because indeed, as Heljo rightly said, these expenses are very large and, although there is a compensation system, a large part of the money is simply going to be empty. Well, not empty, he's going well, but he's going to those people who can take care of themselves. And those who don't have a chance, those poorer deciles, they'll give up and they'll lose it or they'll lose it. So, to sum up, briefly, not to discuss any further, I like this bill and we like it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U208	Thank you. I don't see any more calls, I'm closing the negotiations. No amendments to the draft were received. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 467. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U209	Today's fourth item on the agenda is now coming to the third reading of the draft law amending the State Budget Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 436. This is a third reading. This bill also requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu. And there's a way to negotiate, yes. Jaanus Karilaid, first there's a procedure, I see. Let's give Jaanus Karilai the floor, please, on the spot.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U210	Thank you. Before the vote, I ask for a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U211	Ten minutes break. [[There's talk in the hall.]] All right, hold on, I'll do it. Yeah, well, let's just say the intermission is registered, but actually, I've already announced the negotiations, so let's do it before the negotiations, and then we'll take a break. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U212	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we prepared the state budget for a third reading. There was an amendment proposed by the Ministry of Finance, which concerned EUR 121000 and, in order to make such an amendment, when Aivar Sõerd was now correctly counted, 93 lines of budget law changed. Half of these lines were about zeros, which means that the sum was less than 500 euros, i.e. they were not rounded to a thousand, but rounded to a zero. Then we had this one amendment of over two A4 to a relatively small amount, from which it was not possible to understand because there were so many zeros, and the rest of the lines did not actually sum up as a sum. Perhaps the changes made to the budget law are not in any way necessary for the Riigikogu to have this operating and result-based budget, I do not know, easier to understand or better dealt with, somehow clearer or more transparent. Yes, it is certainly possible to understand this in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. We approved the amendment, but the fact that we have an operational and result-based budget is something else. The aim is for the area to be managed on an operational and performance basis. The sector has substantive objectives that have been matched by indicators, and public money, all of our money is spent and used to meet these objectives. This is the idea of moving to an activity-based budget. If it is used as such, we in the Riigikogu will undoubtedly be prepared to deal with this awkwardness in the budgetary procedure and take into account it, because the aim is worth it. Unfortunately, at the moment, there is a situation where an operational and performance-based budget has been introduced, but it is essentially not used by the sectors to manage their area. Yes, changes to the budget law must be made to the budget law on an annual basis and it really is clear to which programmes and activities the state budget is going to pay. Undoubtedly, this request for transparency, which has been in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, does not materialise with this bill, must continue to work in the same direction so that we can essentially better understand where we use the resources of the state budget. But I am talking here because this major change, which needs to be made, is actually the Minister for Finance, that the areas must essentially start using operational and performance-based governance. Only then will it make sense to build up a budget with this structure. So if the draft is approved today, then really, already in next year's budget, we will have more lines and we will see how the funds will be directed to smart and busy Estonia. But the explanatory statement accompanying it is getting longer and longer. I would also like to mention this: in order to be able to get an overview of the use of budgetary resources in the Riigikogu, it would actually be very good if there were such a time series [of which you can see] that would change compared to the previous ones. I do not mean in any way that the budget figures for the previous ten years should be recalculated by programme and programme activities, but from now on, a comparison between the years should still be made in which programme or activity the resources will grow, at which expense they will grow. Then it's next year... A few more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U213	Two more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U214	... possible to actually understand the budget explanatory memorandum, what the change is going on and what political decisions have been made. I very much hope that next year, at the same time, we will not be talking again about cuts in this Chamber. When cuts are made, in fact [must be known] their cover. What are the things that are left out, it should be in the explanatory memorandum, and in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, at least during the proceedings, Members should have this information. We are once again in a situation where the budget comes to third reading, but indeed the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs do not have an overview of what is being cut and where this coverage of wage increases comes from. That's it. So I very much expect areas to be managed on an operational and performance basis, only then will it make sense to continue with this structure to draw up the budget and also to build such an explanatory memorandum. An operational and performance-based budget is not needed for the Riigikogu; it is necessary to enable us to achieve substantive objectives in the fields. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U215	Thank you very much. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U216	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U217	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U218	Thank you. First of all, this law is, of course, a legal appendix. This does not solve any further problem with regard to the current year's budget, since all the substantive conditions of the 2022 budget already presented this autumn are met by this new legal mandate for budget preparation. Of course, the purpose of this was to be a bone to ease the tensions that arose around where MEPs and the public, but also the National Audit Office and the Chancellor of Justice, had concerns and justified resentment that the budget had become unmanageable. This is a very serious problem. Now, let heaven ensure that, in addition to the declarative narrative of activity contained in the budget text, we lose this 'cost management scheme' at the level of the ministries, so that it becomes all about this activity-based wave. Then there would also be a substantive management review below. On the contrary, I think it would be reasonable for us to give a clear signal to the government and the Ministry of Finance that this step is not a wrong step in itself, but is simply an excessive step, because practical life did not require this act. The real step, which at least the specialists of the Ministry of Finance have promised, is that we hope that the next budget will be drawn up in substance, on the basis of a reformed law. So this is the 'zero phase' and Parliament must certainly not be misled by this text of the law, as if it were really solving things in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U219	Thank you very much. I don't see any more requests. I'm closing the negotiations. And now, before we go to the vote, the mid-group asked for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U220	Ladies and gentlemen, I will put to the final vote draft law amending the State Budget Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 436. This is a bill that requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U221	There are 83 ambassadors in favour of the draft, with 1 abstention and no votes against. The draft has been approved.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U222	Let's go to the fifth item on today's agenda. The third reading of the draft law amending the Gambling Tax Act and the State Budget Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U223	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already stated here on several occasions that the Social Democrats are against the Gambling Tax Act and the Amending Law on the State Budget Act and are not voting in favour of it. I call on all of you, ladies and gentlemen, for several times, too, not to support this bill. The law amending the Gambling Tax Act and the State Budget Act proposed by the Government violates the long-established and well-functioning model of how the resources collected through gambling tax reach the players of sports, culture, education, social and regional projects. People, projects, activities just all expect this money every year when ministries open these application rounds, and they will be happy to use them. The explanatory memorandum drawn up by the government describes with great precision how many hundred projects, how many thousand people will be deprived of the necessary support if we adopt this law today. All these Olympic athletes, disabled athletes, young people, cultural players and small regional projects, which, hopefully, will not be supported by the adoption of the law today, are very damaging. The Minister of Finance told us when he presented this bill that it would make the system flexible. Nowhere does it appear from this bill that the system is becoming flexible. The Minister of Finance promised us that the State Budget Act would highlight both these areas and the amounts. I looked out, back and third, and according to the explanatory memorandum, no one can find these areas and these amounts so that they would come from gambling tax. It's not here! The Minister of Finance promised at first reading from this very platform that the government would make the necessary amendments to the draft law so that at least the areas would be fixed so that gambling tax funds would not go into other areas. As we heard here at second reading, the Minister of Finance came with this draft, he came first and foremost to his group, but the Reform Party Group sent the minister long and said that we do not need such changes here. However, it is in the Reform Party Group that there are good Olympic athletes who should make sure that this money reaches the necessary places. Ladies and gentlemen, This is not a good bill. It is good in the sense that it is very short, but its content, its impact on the whole area, is very great. The explanatory memorandum drawn up by the government tells us that EUR 11 million will be lost by these small projects. Major educational and cultural programmes are not being carried out. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't understand. Members of the Social Democratic Party Group do not understand why, for whom and why this change is needed. We are breaking up a good current, working system that has been introduced over the years, and now we are depriving people of even hope of public support. So, to sum up, ladies and gentlemen, I call on you, on behalf of the Socialists, not to support the bill and to allow the system to operate in a calm and transparent manner, as it has so far done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U224	Thank you. This is a third reading, and only the political groups can speak. I have not received a signal from your group's Bureau which will speak on behalf of the group. Aivar Chef first reached the surface of the letter. Do you have authority in the group that talks? A microphone for the barn, please! Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U225	It means that on behalf of the Group, Mrs Ladynskaya must be spoken. What, though, about the need to make one clarification on behalf of the Commission? Isn't that what it is, and that's the end of the story, so the verbogram doesn't come up with the kind of thing that has been asked about in the hall and to which the reply should go?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U226	No, that is something I do not know at third reading that we can do; we only have negotiations on behalf of the political groups. Please, Viktoria Ladynskaya!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U227	Good coalition ambassadors! Did you enjoy Anett Kontavaid, our athletes at the Tokyo Olympic Games, where our swordsmen came as Olympic winners and offered the entire nation unforgettable emotions for Estonia's sake? We have a very competitive top sport for a small country; these wins do not come without daily heavy trainings and sacrifices. Behind these moments there is a great and tiring work and it needs much more support. The draft law amending the Gambling Tax Act and the State Budget Act initiated by the Government of the Republic determines the very difficult state of our top sports. In October, a letter from the Estonian Olympic Committee was received from both the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the Committee on Culture. Its president, Urmas Sõõrumaa, formulated the problem as follows: "The Estonian Olympic Committee is an umbrella organisation for all Estonian sports, representing Olympics and other sports as well as recreation. Since 1997 there has been funding of preparatory projects for the Olympic Games at the expense of the proceeds of the gambling tax. In Estonia, there has been a unique system in Europe where a specific % of the income is provided at the level of the Act to support top sports. During this time Estonia has received 9 Olympic winners, dozens of world and European champions. It is a testimony that such a funding system works and is successful." The law that we have on the table abolishes the specific percentage of receipts to finance the Olympic preparation projects and leaves the grant to the Ministry for annual decision-making. The real number is also written next, as to how much Estonia's top sport loses thanks to the new law. I quote: "We find that, by fixing the amount of the collection for the next 4 years, Estonia's sport will already lose EUR 340727 in 2022 and EUR 2713193 in four years. We recognise that in all global or sporting competition, this would have disastrous consequences for all our sport." This law raised a lot of questions not only in opposition ambassadors. And now I quote Jüri Jaanson at second reading: "[... As a former top athlete, beneficiary of top sports and also chairman of the sports support group of the Riigikogu, I cannot in any way support this draft. I am opposed in this respect to my group and also to the initiator of the draft." "[... ] the draft is now a matter of haste and does not appear and is not pretty at all. We are talking about a measure that has worked well in quite a long history and the results of which we can be proud. And it's losing now. The draft amends the distribution of the gambling tax so that one part of it was also support for top sports. At this point, I would like to talk about the fact that top sport loses clear funding, depending on the discretion of politicians. It's not bad in itself. After all, all areas are supported by the national budget strategy. But what they don't want to talk about is that we don't have equal areas. Areas such as this are inevitably important and less important. And we don't have any basic goods for top sport, at least in the case of state budget choices. " That's what a coalition ambassador said. In the case of this law, I will highlight three major problems. Firstly, the system of distribution of gambling tax is demolished, the money is directed directly to the budget without a label, the one that works is demolished, and there is no clear and strong alternative to the current system. The sign is we're gonna do it in a hurry. It's also a process procedure. For example, the Committee on Culture, although the field of culture and sport is directly ours, did not deal with this law separately, did not draw up a separate opinion. Another concern is the real output of the law. Today's coalition politicians still remember that in such proceedings they have promised something to those who lose their support. But the next government may no longer remember this context, which means that the future of top sports will depend on the will of a particular ruler. And the third concern: not only the Olympic Committee, but also the cultural makers and many others knew that the system would support them. This is indeed an unthinking law, and the Fatherland is voting against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U228	Thank you very much. I don't see any more wish for negotiation. Then... Uh, Erkki Keldo for the Reform Party, please! Speaking on the spot.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U229	Yes, thank you! Before we go to the vote, the Reform Party Group would like a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U230	Got it. Ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U231	Ladies and gentlemen, the ten-minute break taken by the Reform Party Group is over, we can go to the vote. I would point out that this bill also requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu. I vote on the gambling tax initiated by the Government of the Republic... I'm sorry! It's a procedure. Urmas Reinsalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U232	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I wanted to find out what was really going on in that hall. I can't move in the costaars, I'm at a long-distance hearing, but maybe the chairman of the hearing would give me the current information. Namely, Hanno Pevkur attended the Isamaa Group yesterday, who introduced the reform of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act and said that the proposal was to take breaks as a form of obstruction, because it is unconstructive, and, according to his memory, in the history of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure, the coalition had never had the need to take breaks. But now we see that at first Karilaid took ten minutes of break, now the Reform Party takes ten minutes. This unprecedented delay in work has taken place, and the coalition groups are dragging it down. Does this mean that it is a political sign that there is a heavy threat within the government, around the government, so that these groups want to distance themselves from the government and we have a'specialist' government in office? I would like to ask for an interpretation by the President of this sitting of the reasons for these unprecedented breaks according to the logic of the Rules of Procedure. Hanno Pevkur's words were also confirmed yesterday by a very authoritative state law expert, Rein Lang.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U233	Of course, it wasn't very procedural. There is nothing unprecedented about political groups taking breaks before the vote. It's no big secret that I'm not a teleworking fan either. But I can recommend that the website of the Riigikogu allows you to view a video broadcast from the Riigikogu hall in order to get a better overview. I ain't gonna do no front-portage like this. And then there's another procedural question. Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U234	Yeah, thanks! As Mr Reinsalu did not have any clarity, he would ask for the presence check to be carried out before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U235	Sure. Incoming check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U236	89 members of the Riigikogu signed up to be present. Now let's try it again, break is taken, presence check is done. I vote on the draft law amending the Gambling Tax Act and the State Budget Act 459 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U237	The draft was supported by 53 ambassadors, 34 against. The draft has been approved.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U238	Today's sixth item is the draft Act amending the VAT Act, the Eesti Pank Act and the Act amending the VAT Act and the Customs Act 460. This is a third reading, and it also requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu. I'm opening negotiations. I don't see the wish to negotiate, I'm closing the negotiations. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on a draft 460. Does the Riigikogu want a hall call? No, we didn't, and we had control of our presence. I therefore vote on the draft Act amending the VAT Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Eesti Pank Act and the Act amending the VAT Act and the Customs Act 460. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U239	The draft was supported by 87 delegates, with no votes against, with one abstention. The draft has been approved.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U240	The seventh item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Land Reform Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U241	Ladies and gentlemen, With this bill, it solves a number of technical problems. At first glance, it may seem as if this bill is satisfied and there are no problems. However, there is an important disadvantage here, and this could be called a fundamental, fundamental problem. We are talking about §8 (2) of the draft, which states that the charge for the use of infrastructure is set at 3%. This 3% reflects once again the indifference of the Estonian state and the superior attitude towards private property. It's sad we're going along with that in this hall. Private property is an important cornerstone of our country and § 32 of the Constitution says that everyone's property is untouchable and equally protected. In 2012, the Supreme Court declared the current law, which deprived owners of fair compensation when they were burdened with property, unconstitutional. It should be said that for the first time, the Supreme Court has declared this law unconstitutional as early as 2004. For many years, there was a debate and a debate on how much fair compensation should be. On 17 January 2018, the Riigikogu passed the Act on the Implementation of the Law of Property Act and on the amendment of other laws, which supplemented the Act with § 155, which says that the farm fee is 7.5%. Anyone who wishes to read more about this bill than the explanatory memorandum can read how the percentage was reached. Let it be said only briefly that 5% was intended for fair compensation and 2,5% for land tax. This Act entered into force on 1 January 2019. At the time, it was thought that the church was in the middle of the village, or different interests were balanced. Already then, it was said that there would be an assessment of the value of the land. Its preparation started in the middle of the last decade and, in this light, discussions were also held on the percentage that eventually entered the law, i.e. 7.5% already took this principle into account. In good faith, private owners made agreements in the following years to burden their property with infrastructure objects. We have now come to a situation where we say that the value of the land has increased too much, and therefore, good landowners, we are taking almost half of what you promised. Such conduct in a country that respects private property does not suffer any criticism. Let it be said that Riigi Kinnisvara AS pursues a return of almost 10% on its investments. That's normal. But in the case of a private owner, 5% is an obvious enrichment. Recently, Enefit Green was a stock issue. The stock price has increased a lot today. Is the next step a part of the renationalisation of shares because investors have earned too much? That is what the draft today contains. And it's a disgrace. Now for legal clarity. If we adopt this bill, we have two laws that deal differently with the same thing. What is the basis for the selection? How is a common man supposed to know when he can get 7.5% and when he can cross the 7.5% requirement and tell you that 3% is enough for you, you're already rich? The explanatory memorandum tries to do so in its legal pulpit and says that the law implementing the Law of Property Law will continue to be implemented in the country of income. Other destinations are expected to have a coefficient of 0, but can also be determined differently depending on the situation. How often does ordinary people read the explanatory notes of laws? And what things are these different situations... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U242	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U243	What are the different situations when the coefficient can be greater than 0, and who determines these percentages then? Will the next step be the approximation of laws and also the amendment of the law implementing the law of property law, i.e. will it finally be 3%? All of this, the inconsistencies in legislation, the lack of legal certainty, not legal clarity, is not part of good legislative practice, and the latter has serious problems. Therefore, the Fatherland cannot support this bill. I reviewed how the political parties that were in the Riigikogu at that time behaved when establishing the 7,5% tolerance fee. The Centre Party did not have a problem supporting this percentage. I very much hope that they will have no reason to support the draft today, and will still be able to stick to 7.5%. Before the final vote, the rapporteur of the Reform Party said that neither they had any very good proposals for resolving the situation in the course of the procedure nor in the last five years. In life it is quite often that you can do the right things and can do things right. Very rarely, you can do the right thing right, but if you have to choose, you have to do the right thing. And he promised to vote for the bill. That's what the Reform Party thought back then. It was in the previous bill that we noticed that they were prepared to do the wrong things. Now the Reform Party has a chance to improve itself a little bit. I hope that you, ladies and gentlemen of the Reform Party, have not abandoned respect for private property or done the wrong things when you enter the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U244	Thank you. I don't see any more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed a final vote on draft 418. Would you like a call sign? Let's make a call. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft law on land reform initiated by the Government of the Republic and on the amendment of other laws 418. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U245	There are 75 ambassadors in favour of the draft, three against, no abstentions. The bill has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U246	Eighth item: Draft Financial Supervision Authority Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and amendment of other laws 422. This is a third reading. We can go to the negotiations. I'm opening negotiations. I don't see any calls. In that case, we can go to the final vote, and since we have just had a séance, I will not do it again. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft law amending the Financial Supervision Authority Act and other laws 422. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U247	The draft is supported by 67 ambassadors, 16 against, no abstentions. The draft was approved.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U248	Today's ninth item is the draft Act amending the National Budget Act 2021 initiated by the Government of the Republic (431 SE). This is a third reading of the state budget, and there is a different procedure, so I call Aivar Sõerdi as rapporteur for the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U249	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed this draft in the preparation of the third reading at its meeting on 16 November. As far as the content of the draft is concerned, the draft has been drawn up in accordance with the State Budget Act, according to which the Government may initiate a draft law amending the state budget no later than two months before the end of the financial year, without changing the total amount of expenditure. And given that this year's State Budget Act has been drawn up last autumn and some funding needs have changed, it is appropriate to initiate a change in the state budget in order to improve the efficiency of the objectives set by the public authorities. No proposals were received from the members of the Riigikogu, political groups and committees by the deadline of 15 November at 14:00. The Finance Committee, in cooperation with the ministries, drafted an amendment specifying the costs of one of the 13 amendments and added a provision to enter into force on the day following the publication of the Act in the Official Journal of the State. Explanations of amendments are included in the list of amendments. And if you stay with them, the first concerns the transfer of funds from the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. One major change is under the Government of the Republic and concerns the distribution of the budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs' labour market programme to the expenses of the Government of the Republic's reserve of funds of EUR 46,7 million. Then there are the changes between the various programmes in the field of the Ministry of Justice. There are changes to the Department of Defense. The point was that it may have been in the spring or summer when we looked at the budget for this year on some subject, and then the speaker himself asked why the cost of allies' infrastructure in the area of the Ministry of Defence's administration was divided between all four different programmes, although the cost of infrastructure could be included in the area of collective protection in terms of its content. There was no reply immediately, a written inquiry had to be made. The written enquiry was answered in such a way that there was an error and that this error is being corrected. So I have heard here the accusation that if a member of the Riigikogu asks for anything about a specific item in the budget, he will receive an answer, but nothing will be done. Yes, they are. They just fixed one mistake. There are also changes in the area of government of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and in the area of government of the Ministry of Finance. And one of the changes concerned the area of government of the Ministry of the Interior: the re-introduction of budgetary resources in the area of government will amount to 4.6 million euros in respect of the requirements of national defence secrets from the budget for building a defence police building into the normal budget of the Defence Police. Now the debate in the Commission is also brief. Here's an extract from the November 16th protocol. First of all, we had questions answered by Regina Vällik, adviser to the Budget Department of the Ministry of Finance. Our debate was rather short. The speaker asked two questions. I asked for clarification of the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Justice concerning the breakdown of measures in the field of performance. The Commission subsequently received a written reply. And the speaker also asked a second question, which concerned the sum of the general investments presented in the form of state secrets by the Ministry of the Interior. The point is that this 4.6 million in the amendment was already allocated to the original supplementary budget and is now being moved to the section of state secret. I asked why it had to be done. The answer was.. I quote that the Ministry of the Interior has specified this amount in an official way, that it has identified the reasons for which the amount of investment was initially not presented as a state secret, and how to proceed in the future. The amount as such is not a state secret, but the whole further operation, which activities are carried out and how they are carried out, is treated as a state secret. And that is why it cannot be planned publicly in the budget if the implementation of the budget must be restricted to access. Such an explanation. And that was the end of our debate. The Commission made the following decisions consensually: first, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on Wednesday, 24 November, then the third reading should be closed and the final vote carried out. A majority of the votes required for the adoption of the bill as a law. Thank you for your attention and I am ready to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U250	And there really are questions. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U251	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Good waitress! I am not interested in what is in this bill, but in what is not in this bill. At the moment, it is precisely the additional budget that is needed for operational action in the absence of an increase in overall expenditure. Business support measures allocated to earlier budgets for this year to alleviate the corona crisis are currently stacked in KredEx and under the Ministry of Economic Affairs because they are not profiled accordingly. I spoke to the Finance Department's experts. When we talk about mitigation measures for companies in a critical situation during this ongoing crisis, the government would have had to propose amendments to the additional budget. Why did the government not provide for more flexible measures to actually help [in need] sectors in a situation where they were previously known to have been designed both through a financing transaction and other support measures with a different profile? A clear and specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U252	As far as these measures are concerned, when we were preparing for the third reading, we did not really address this issue and no one asked questions about it. So it was not on the agenda in the committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U253	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U254	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, We have already discussed the picture of an operational and result-based budget in this Chamber today. I would simply ask your opinion because you have dealt with budgetary transparency so deeply. How does this change of focus from that annual report counter? Is it essentially well and reasonably resolved there, or do you see that there is also a need for transparency?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U255	Thank you for your question. The debate on the annual report is still ahead of us; this is not the subject at present. But I can answer that because I asked about the annual report in this Chamber when we discussed it. My question was that there are these metrics for the performance areas and why is it that a large part of the metrics are not met at all, but a large part is based on some kind of base level years ago. And they run out until 2023. These indicators, which are actually part of an activity-based budget, are not fulfilling their role, are not adequate. I guess the system's still limping, and I realize that the Ministry of Finance is betting that these meters are going to play their part someday.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U256	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U257	Good manager! Good waitress! Aivar, why don't you give me a little more details about the numbers on this defense police house? It's such a fun story. Not that the defense police are a fun institution But how have these numbers danced there?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U258	Yes, it concerns this bill so much that it was initially included in this draft amendment to the National Budget Act 2021, the allocation of funds for the construction of the defence police office of EUR 4.7 million, and now with this amendment it is being moved from one line to the other. But indeed, I remember this debate, it was in the context of the state budget, and for some reason the investments on this site were marked 0. However, when the Ministry of the Interior opened its budget and constitutional consolidation programme and looked at this explanatory statement, there was no mention of it. When we had the Minister of the Interior in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and were asked about this, he kindly answered and also said the amount foreseen for the construction of this item in the budget. Later, in the context of another bill, this was questioned in this Chamber. Then that sum was different from that. And finally, when a written inquiry had to be made to the Ministry of the Interior, there was an exact answer, which was already the third sum, but it was declared professional information. So it came to some clarity.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U259	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U260	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! However, I would continue with the question of my good colleague, Riina, and would ask basically the same thing about the 2021 budget. Your good groupmate, Jürgen, also Minister of Finance, has said that the current activity-based budget is quite a tip-top and will do. You're a little different. When the Commission discusses this budget for 2021 and the problems that have been highlighted here in the past, has it reached any position on whether or not something should be changed?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U261	Of course, we did not open this issue so widely when reviewing the [national budget] changes in 2021. This is the subject of discussing other drafts. We have just voted here on changes to the basic law of the state budget, and that is where we discussed these issues, as well as when the state budget for next year was being discussed in depth in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. But here, as much as we could, we tried to clarify and understand why the changes that we have here now need to be made. In fact, most of them are internal or inter-programme relocations of this technical nature. But we had questions, and if we didn't get answers right away, then later they were sent to us in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U262	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U263	Good manager! Good Aivar! First of all, thank you for your meaningful answers! How do you think we've sort of launched this activity-based budget? Does it work or not? I have realised that the point of the ABM budget was that every year we see whether money has gone to the right place and whether or not it will make any savings next year. If [it has gone] to the IT sector, then there may be fewer jobs [residual]. Yesterday, too, in the Commission's debate on next year's budget, it became clear that if every line comes from a ministry, more jobs must be done, not reduced, as the aim of the state reform was. While we are criticising this state budget for 2021 in the same way, are we, in some way, reading out of activity-based lines what we have benefited from, that we have set up tens of billions of such money?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U264	Dear colleague Aivar! This debate lies ahead of us, and I hope that it will come in depth and in substance. I hope you'll bet on it too. We were just on the agenda, two weeks ago the Auditor General was here, giving an overview of the 2020 budget. The same year 2021, this year's budget, to which we are now making changes, will also be the subject of an annual report in due course. The National Audit Office audits this and one part of the annual report is the report on the implementation of the state budget. The achievement of the objectives of the performance areas will also be assessed. So we will open this debate. It's all ahead of us.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U265	No further questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of Urmas Reinsalu Isamaa. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U266	[[Remote connection]] More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U267	Yeah, now you've got a nice spread. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U268	I would first of all like to say that the Isamaa Group does not support this additional budget and we call on all parliamentarians to vote against this budget. This should be Parliament's protest precisely against the inflexible behaviour of this government in the corona crisis in terms of the practical decisions that must be taken. I recall what Kristen Michal said today. People's expectations of managing the government's health crisis were higher. This time of crisis has also meant that the government must be able to quickly and operationally change decisions, redesign them according to real needs. The previous budgets are set at hundreds of millions of euros this year to support entrepreneurship. These measures are primarily on the KredEx budget line in the Ministry of Economic Affairs. And the situation is paradoxical right now. On the one hand, we have hundreds of millions of euros for support and financing operations, but they have not been used, because their profile is that either they are not open or they do not really meet the needs of the market. Well, earlier decisions on the allocation of this money were made on the basis of poor information in the past and in the future. But now we can see that in this third wave, a continuous wave, which has been long and actually dying out of a wide range of sectors, such as catering, sports halls, tourism, it would certainly be necessary not in these volumes, but in precisely designed flexible support measures to help survive this long-lasting crisis, given the constraints that the government itself has found necessary [to establish] a health crisis in order to combat the virus. Regrettably, however, the government has acted rigidly and somehow in parallel reality. In particular, the additional budget for 2021 would have been the most appropriate and the only place to take part, without increasing the total budget, in the resources already allocated to earlier budgets for that year under the management of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and to redesign them to support specific sectors this year. It would have been easy, but it would have required political will and operational action. Unfortunately, what we see in the fight against the health crisis is this stretching and lateness in a situation where, as it was in the spring, just as it has been in the third wave in the autumn, it has also sent [current] capacity or, rather, the inability to deal with the social and economic impacts of the health crisis in an operational manner. And that is why the Group of the Fatherland does not vote in favour of this draft. Not because we think that there is a problem with the funds of the redeployed Kapo House, but, above all, in protest against the failure to do so, [that] the draft budget itself does not contain [the necessary changes]. So, on behalf of the Isamaa Group, I call on all Members to protest against such inflexible and sleepy leadership by voting against, with a clear vote against this specific draft law. And when miracles happen, the time of adoption is approaching, we will be able to send such a political signal quickly, operationally, and expect a more flexible response from the government and to come here in these weeks with a draft corrected before the High Chamber of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U269	There's no more calls. There has also been one amendment to this draft, which has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and it has also been accepted by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. So we have included this amendment in the draft. The commission has proposed a final vote on draft 431. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote before you on the draft Act amending the National Budget Act 2021 initiated by the Government of the Republic 431. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U270	The draft is supported by 75 members of the Riigikogu, against 11, with 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U271	The tenth item on the agenda today is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on Electronic Communications, the Building Code and the State Fees Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. The Steering Committee has proposed a final vote and before that it will be possible for the political groups to express their views. Please, I'm opening negotiations. That's not what you want. I'm closing the negotiations. I vote on the Government of the Republic's initiative... Just in case, I'm asking if we're okay with going to the vote. No objections. I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on Electronic Communications, the Building Code and the State Fees Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 437. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U272	by 73 votes to 2, with 1 abstention. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U273	Our 11th item on the agenda today is the third reading of Draft Act 461 amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. It is once again possible for the political groups to speak here. Starts on behalf of the central fraction Kersti Sarapuu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U274	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the Chamber and behind the screens. [[The connection's breaking up.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U275	Good, Kersti, can I stop for a second? May I ask you to come a little closer to the computer or use the flaps, or we'll have a bit of sound in between. Try again! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U276	Here's what we're gonna do. Is that better?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U277	Yeah, a lot.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U278	The crisis in COVID-19 had affected the livelihood of many people in Estonia by then, and the real question was not whether to lower [excise] but how much to reduce. At a difficult time, the state must come to the aid of its inhabitants, and the faction of the Centre Party was in favour of it with two hands at the time. I also congratulate today, on behalf of the Centre Party Group, the current government, which will extend the rates that have been set for one year and has agreed that, from 1 May 2023, the flat rate of excise duties on fuel and electricity will be restored to pre-crisis levels within four years. Although the economy is showing signs of recovery, many sectors are still struggling. State support is, of course, welcome. This bill leaves more to households every month. The exceptional increase in global prices is estimated by experts to last until at least spring 2022 and therefore the time has come for adoption of the draft on the agenda. Lower rates of excise duty help to keep prices lower, thereby curbing the growth rate of the consumer price index and the cost of living. Most of these prices are affected by the increase in prices for all services and goods. The decision adopted will certainly also have a positive impact on all electricity consumers by mitigating the effects of high stock exchange prices and reducing household and business costs of electricity. In addition, this will have a positive impact on border trade, as long-distance car carriers will continue to be able to refuel at competitive prices in Estonia. In short, now is the time to press the green button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U279	On behalf of the Fatherland Group, Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U280	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Fatherland Party is very pleased that the draft delivered by [our group] on 8 April has reached the point that it has arrived at this hall in the form of a practically similar [draft] by the government. We hope that it will be adopted today, it was understood that it took the government half a year to revive the economy today and to meet its people, it is necessary to keep excise duties on most fuel types low. We know what fuel prices have done at our gas stations, we know what the price of electricity is on the market, and we know what the price of gas is that heat for many homes. I just want to thank today's government. That took a while. A few days before a draft similar to that of the Pro Patria Party arrived at the Riigikogu from the government, we had a debate with the representatives of the Riigikogu with the people of the oil union. The coalition did not yet have this understanding, but opposition politicians continued to support the low level of excise duties. And I am pleased that, once we have discussed this draft in this Chamber, today's Minister of Finance also promised that if we see, in a year's time, a situation where the neighbours of Latvia and Lithuania have not raised excise duties, then the excise duty should be kept low in the coming years. While this draft provides for a 25% increase over the next four years, it is very clear from the point of view of border trade that we do not want to take the same rake twice. We did this once when we raised the act in the hope that it would bring a lot of money to the state budget and everything would go very well. In fact, taxes went to Latvia and money went to Latvia, and we taught our people how to walk in Latvia. A lot of people still go there to buy one thing, one thing, one thing or the other. I say once again: first of all, thank you for supporting our draft and proposal by the coalition. The Fatherland Party supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U281	And now the President has received a mandate from the Social Democratic Party... Well, I'm so sorry, the mike was stuck. I have received a mandate in which the Group of the Social Democratic Party authorises Mr Kaljulaid to represent him in the Group's negotiations on this point. Please, Raimond Kaljulaid!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U282	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I am so pleased that electronic means of communication are working today, and this mandate has reached the very President. First of all, I would like to respond, of course, to what good fellow official Mr Aivar Kokk said here, as if there was something wrong with going to Latvia. No, it's a good thing we're visiting Latvia. Latvia is our southern neighbour, and I am categorically opposed to such stigmatisation of Latvia from this speech chair of the Riigikogu. In the case of this draft, Mr Kersti Sarapuu, in favour of the Government Coalition, of course, stressed that the decision to impose excise duties would be extended and that these low rates would apply for a little longer. That is, of course, good news. No one's arguing about that. But it would be fair to tell the Estonian people that the government has good news for them, but there is bad news. The bad news is that, as of May 2023, the draft introduces the restoration of excise duties to a pre-crisis level, on which the government writes in its draft that it is flat: the rise of flat excise duties. What does that mean? If you look at the draft explanatory memorandum, it shows the rates of excise duty on energy products and their prognosis. Electricity excise duty will increase by 4.5-fold by 2026 compared to today. 4.5 times, ladies and gentlemen: from EUR 1 to EUR 4.47 per megawatt-hour! Friends, if this is a flat price increase, I'm Lionel Mess. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Social Democrats also initiated a draft on electric excise duty, which provided for the abolition of this increase, but for an indefinite period. However, it is understandable that this solution on our desk is probably one that will receive support in this Chamber and we will also vote, and the Social Democrats will also vote in favour of this draft. Of course, these increases in excise duty need to be postponed, but at the same time it certainly cannot be satisfied that consumers are already facing such a high price increase in 2023. I would remind you that there have always been passionate discussions on taxes in this Chamber between the more right-wing parties and the more left-wing parties. However, it is a fact that indirect taxes, excise duties are still hit harder by households with low and medium incomes, whose total costs account for electricity and other household costs account for a larger proportion and who are more price sensitive. So that's the problem with this bill, let's say, the problem with the question of whether the glass is half full or if it's half empty. From our point of view, he's still half empty right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U283	And now, on behalf of the EKRE Group, Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U284	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, Raimond started out so promising, and I watched that wow, EKRE and sox can put red in the same way. But, you see, the clever boy, he kind of started, but then suddenly he pulled a fox trailer. Our idea: we're the red one, Kersti. Definitely! Raimond already told me a few things. Maybe I'll go over it one more time. We did cut this excise duty temporarily in our own time, and we do not agree that it will be increased in 2023 either. The current one should remain until 30 April 2023 and then, as Raimond said, from 1 May begins, such a sloping [rise] is a nice concept if this "sloping" is such a quadruple slope. We do not agree with that. Perhaps the difference between us and Raimond is that I think in 2023 we will form a government and not a group of ladies and gentlemen. And it's like an ax over us. We do not agree with that. But this is now narrowly taken by the EKRE [problem], but above all, it concerns people, the people of Estonia, and above all those whose incomes are lower. Of course, the price of electricity is an axe already. According to the European Commission's gold key, the carbon quota price should be 52 [EUR per tonne] in 2030, but it is now 67 and I do not know what it will be by then. Now, while the Government of the Republic recently discussed the proposal, the draft of which I think is 427 - the motion was, of course, drawn to [the proposal] so that this humiliation would continue. It has been said that it is not right to assume that these things, high electricity prices, will last for years. Well [I think] that, yes, everything can change, but these giant winds won't come into the sea by then, they won't get there, they won't even make it to the mainland. And oil shale plants will in any case remain by that time, early 2023 or April. I will now come back to [the] fact that on 8 November the Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed the proposal by the EKRE to continue to apply the rates of excise duty to today's level, on the basis of a pandemic and uncertainty, and that these high giants will not, in any case, reach the sea by that time. But representatives of the coalition said that [some of it] in the trash can. The reduced levels of excise duty due to the pandemic are not worth supporting, as it does not coincide with their noble aims of fairly taxing fossil fuels and [therefore] they do not support the objectives of the European Union's 'large green turn' or the climate package. Therefore, I repeat, the EKRE considers that excise duties on energy carriers currently in force must not be increased. The current rates of excise duty must be maintained at the same level as they are, and without a time limit, even after the elections of the Riigikogu in 2023. And that is why, ladies and gentlemen, I will press and the entire EKRE Group will boldly press red. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U285	I don't see any more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. We will also hold a final vote on the proposal of the lead committee. Let's start preparing it. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws 461. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U286	For 69, against 16. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U287	The 12th item on our agenda today is the second reading of the Riigikogu resolution "Accepting the National Summary Report for the financial year 2020" 432 by the Government of the Republic. Aivar Sõerdi, member of the Monetary Commission, please speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U288	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu Committee on Finance discussed the draft decision with 432 in preparation for second reading at the meeting on 16 November. With two more sentences on the substance of the draft. The purpose of the summary report of the state financial year is to provide an overview of the achievement of the goals set in the state budget, the financial position of the state, financial results and cash flows and to enable the Riigikogu to exercise its control function towards the Government of the Republic. The National Audit Office's audit report is included in the summary report for the financial year. We had a brief debate at the meeting on 16 November. The members of the Commission did not have any questions and no amendments to discuss. The Commission unanimously took the following decisions: to propose the inclusion of the draft on the agenda on Wednesday 24 November, to close the second reading and to conclude the final vote. It also means that a majority of the votes cast is required for the adoption of the draft decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U289	The story now is that members of the Riigikogu have questions. Riina Sikkut starts.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U290	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I was in a hurry earlier, but I was just asking to get a letter in the right place. Indeed, you have dealt very thoroughly with the transparency of the state budget and I ask you for your opinion on how the transition to operational orientation has been reflected in the annual report. Does it have a substantial value there, or do you also see concerns?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U291	Yes, the annual report for 2020 that we are currently dealing with was the first budget shifted to ABB. But actually, as I said, in preparation for the second reading, we no longer addressed these issues. However, at first reading, these issues were on the agenda and, since this was the first year with an activity-based budget, it is a bit shaky. I myself asked at first reading, I remember, about these meters, because activities in the activity-based budget are valued and an important component is that it is also necessary to measure the use of funds allocated to [specific] activities. To this end, metrics and benchmarks are available. If you look at this summary report, one part of it is an overview of the achievement of the objectives, including the achievement of the objectives of these performance areas. These meters... Well, a lot of those gauges are missing at all. These metrics are based on surveys, based on such outdated statistics. It can be seen that some benchmarks are a couple of years old and that their maintenance is also considered as a result to achieve [the subject] objectives. This shows that it still needs a lot of further development.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U292	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U293	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Actually, I was just about to ask you about those meters. I think it's a shame that we have a table where there should be meters, and it's just empty. This is also symptomatic of development plans. I've read several times from the chair where we're halfway through the development plan. Half! And, of course, this will eventually be reflected in the annual report, that is understandable. It's symptomatic and I think it's completely unacceptable. Was there a discussion at the Commission meeting that it would try to supplement or introduce these existing [meters] in any way? It's basic. The point of two readings is that some shortcomings are discovered and then clarified and supplemented. Did you talk about it, or did they just let it all pass in a cold stomach?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U294	Yeah, we didn't... Well, this report is voluminous and, now to recall the preparatory debate in the Commission for the first reading, which I actually reflected at first reading, our debate remained rather superficial. My colleague Aivar Kokk, who is sitting behind you, asked what the head accountant is doing. And I guess I could ask some questions myself. There was also a long slide programme by the Minister of Finance, which gave an overview of the economic situation in 2020, of what ended this year. This slide programme was about the state of public finances, and that is what we focused on. In the context of this draft decision, we did not address the issue of metrics in depth. As I said, in the preparation of the second reading, our debate was limited to decision-making. However, I agree with [you]. I myself asked the same question at first reading that a large part of the indicators were missing or abstract, inadequate. It is simply the Ministry of Finance that has promised us that the metric system will be further developed and that it should, at some point, actually work.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U295	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U296	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! We have had serious problems with the accuracy of the information submitted to the Riigikogu in previous periods with regard to the state budget. It has actually turned out that there have been very serious errors in the budget documents compared to the actual situation. Point one: to what extent, or if at all, has this subject been reflected? Are these figures, these numbers, that are here in this summary report, can the Riigikogu trust them? Can we, in turn, go to our constituents and say that they are real numbers, or is there a risk that, after a while, it will become clear that the figures here have actually been wrong? And in what way has it been subject to further verification? I don't know, have you overcalculated with a hand calculator on the Commission, just in case, or anything like that, so that it doesn't happen after the accident, that everything's different than it was written on the paper?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U297	Thank you for that question. Something like that I asked myself. In fact, the fact is that when the National Audit Office audited the annual report for the financial year 2020, the fact that the sum totals in the State Budget Act were incorrect was indeed discovered. But this is an annual report, part of which is a report on the implementation of the state budget. The errors discovered by the National Audit Office were in the National Budget Act 2020. And these mistakes have been corrected by the Ministry of Finance, which they have assured us.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U298	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U299	[[Remote connection]] Good manager and good waitress! This theme of metrics is very fun once again, so to speak, in quotes. You were the last Minister of Finance four or fifteen years ago. If you were the Minister of Finance right now, how would you put those meters in there? I understand it wasn't discussed in the committee, of course, but maybe you're fantasizing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U300	While I had the role of ministering, we didn't do such exercises. But yes, indeed, the purpose of the metrics is to assess how the funds allocated to activities broken down into performance areas and programme activities are used. Let's say, first of all, it assesses how much one or the other state service costs. Another important activity-based budget component is the need to assess the effectiveness of the use of funds allocated to these programmes. This part, or this meter mechanism, is not working. This is not my story; this is what the National Audit Office said here two weeks ago when he made a report on the annual report. The surveyors are, you can see for yourself, quite abstract, based on polls. And, specifically, with regard to the summary of the activities in 2020, there are indeed very few metrics missing in the tables. But I guess this system is being perfected all the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U301	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U302	Thank you, Mr. Sõerd. I understand these are different documents, but I thank you for your explanation. Just, [we have] a discussion here here, that we have a budget where the sums don't match, a summary report where the metrics in your very weighty estimate are either not reliable to the end, they are too estimated, they are abstract or they are missing. You understand the problem, don't you? This Riigikogu plenary will receive materials about public finances through the Commission, through the Ministry, the accuracy of which cannot be assured to the end. After all, finance should not be a humanitarian area where all opinions are beautiful and good, it should be very precise. Once again, do you think that the Ministry has dealt with the figures in this summary report so that we can trust those figures that come from the public sector here in the Riigikogu more in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U303	I guess what I said was largely a referendum on the assessments made by the Auditor General on the same question, as well as by the Chancellor of Justice. In fact, the Ministry of Finance has also accepted the complaints of the National Audit Office regarding the evaluation of performance areas in these materials. First of all, he has agreed and has promised to improve this system as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U304	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U305	[[Remote connection]] Good manager and waitress! The National Audit Office has shown that hundreds of millions may be quite the opposite. But since it is about approving the recapitulative statement for the financial year 2020, I ask you whether you dare to take either the lighter or the heavier poison here, that these numbers actually match both individually and all together.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U306	Thank you for that question. This can be answered by the fact that the annual accounts are the accounts and that the accounts have also been audited. And as regards the accuracy of the annual accounts and the legality of transactions, the National Audit Office says, I read out: "The State Audit Office estimates that the state budget implementation report for 2020 shows revenue of 10.77 billion, expenditure of 11.68 billion, investments of 507,99 million and financing transactions of 1.66 billion euros, reliable information about revenue collected by the state, expenditure incurred, investments and financing transactions. " So I will answer you in exactly the same way: the annual report provides reliable information on revenue collected by the State, expenditure incurred, investments and financing transactions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U307	Now there's no more questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Isamaa Group, Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U308	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, There is no doubt that the previous speaker, Aivari, must be thanked for this very dedicated work and for going in depth! Indeed, if someone in the Riigikogu has been practically alone in the budget, then you, Aivar, have been engaged and thank you very much for that! It's a remarkable job, and I'm sure it deserves to be turned down from here. However, I would like to highlight one fundamental problem that I see with the previous speaker. It's these meters, and that's why I came here to have it written down again in the verbatim. We have this symptomatic problem with these meters. It is as if we want to measure all our activities well, be action-based, be performance-based. Well, that's very nice, but if we can't determine the result, if we don't want to describe the activities so they're understandable, then it's all bullshit. This is a waste of meaningless resources, and it all starts with development plans. It has been pointed out repeatedly here that indeed, in some cases half of the targets are missing. However, from the development plans they should eventually move to the budget, it is a natural process. I have said this from here before, and I repeat: indeed, in the municipality, a very successful mayor would be released from such development plans if he were to approve the annual report of the municipality in this form. It's just not conceivable, this mayor or mayor will just be taken out next time. But here it seems to go from year to year, and it's kind of normal. You can't accept that. In this sense, I agree: the National Audit Office has audited and really said that the report on the implementation of the 2020 budget provides reliable information about the state's [collected revenue], expenditure, investments and financing transactions. I believe that's the case. I believe in the National Audit Office and this good work, but the problem here is something else. And that is why it is also difficult for me to vote in favour of the consolidated report for this financial year. It's like protesting against it. One day something should change. It's been said, spoken, spoken, but nothing's changed. It is also particularly sad that, indeed, once we have dealt with this in the development plans, it has been said that we are adding, do not worry. It says nicely that it's about the development, the poll's being done. In some cases, the [letter] is also a year that goes back several years. I think it'll be forgotten, and that's where he'll stay. And if this problem stays up, it's like a wake-up call, but that's where he's gonna die again. This is extremely regrettable. This is extremely regrettable and indeed, we will abandon this activity-based [ principle] if we cannot measure it. Let's not waste energy and money on things we don't think about or care about. Of course, I, too, have tried to set my activities on a performance-based and target-based basis in my earlier life, and then this measurement will indeed take place. And most of the time, the meters are also put into some kind of dynamics. Sometimes there's really some constant they want to reach, and that's how it stays, but most of the time they want to follow this process. As well, Aivar, you heard about your speech, and actually, when we look at this thick material, we see that really here [is very much static]. And that raises the question again that we've got one number, we've made a little bird, and it's like everything's in place. This is actually a concern that I, ladies and gentlemen, wanted to share with you. And I'm saying that I believe that the report reflects the figures that are presented here relatively correctly, but it is very difficult for me to press the green button today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U309	I don't see any more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. No amendments to this draft decision have been received and the proposal of the lead committee is the final vote of 432 of the draft decision. Ladies and gentlemen, we have received information that some members of the Riigikogu have not been able to contact our information system, so I will take the chairman's break in three minutes. Well, now we can go to the vote. It seems that those who informed us of [the problem] have been well connected to the system. I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, entitled "Accepting the State's Summary Report for the financial year 2020" 432. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U310	by 75 votes to 0, with 5 abstentions. The State's consolidated annual report for the financial year 2020 has been confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U311	Our 13th item is the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Voting Heili Sepa as a Member of the Supreme Court" submitted by the President of the Supreme Court Villu Kõve 485. I will also give you a reminder of how we deal with this point. First, the representative of the Constitutional Affairs Committee has a presentation for up to 20 minutes, then the candidate for a member of the Supreme Court has a presentation for up to five minutes. Any member of the Riigikogu may ask both rapporteurs an oral question and then the political groups will be able to speak during the negotiations. The final vote that we are about to vote on today is secret. Please, Oudekki Loone, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U312	Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft at its meeting on 16 November. First of all, Mr. Villu Kõve, President of the Supreme Court, introduced Mr. Heili Sepa's candidacy. Villu Kõve noted that since the spring of this year the Supreme Court has been involved in finding a new candidate for a member of the Supreme Court who could be submitted to the Riigikogu for appointment. Jüri Põld, who retires on 1 January 2022, is a member of the administrative college of the Supreme Court, but a new judge should start working in the Criminal Chamber of the Supreme Court, because Julia Laffranque, who had been working at the European Court of Human Rights in the meantime, returned to the administrative college. Villu Kõve said that he considered Heili Sepp to be the best candidate for the office of Supreme Court judge. He has a wide range of experience, he has worked in the Prosecutor's Office, the Office of the Chancellor of Justice, the Ministry of Justice, as well as as as a judge at the Viru County Court Court Court Court courthouse in 2018-2020 and Tallinn District Court in the second half of 2020. Heili Sepp then introduced himself. He's gonna introduce himself to you today, and I don't want to take all the words out of his mouth. He confirmed that for 25 years he has worked in various positions in the field of criminal proceedings and the only thing that is still missing in his CV is indeed the position of a judge of state. So this is a very versatile person with experience in criminal proceedings. During the discussion, Riigikogu member Kalle Grünthal asked Heili Sepa to clarify one of his previous written questions, and Heili Sepp replied that indeed, Kalle Grünthal has asked about the grounds on which the various cultural institutions are entitled to ask for the health data of persons, which is the proof of COVID. Heili Sepp noted that he had examined the issue a little bit, including consultation with former colleagues from the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice, who are directly involved in the protection of personal data. In fact, it is not clear what the legal basis is, on which basis these personal data are processed. The most likely basis is Article 9 (2) (i) of the General Data Protection Regulation, which states that personal data may be processed where necessary in the public interest in the field of public health. Toomas Kivimägi found that if it is difficult for even a candidate for a member of the Supreme Court to identify the basis on which personal data is requested, there is indeed much to assume that a person who is able to explain it and justify it at the door of a cultural institution. Indeed, an explanation by competent, competent persons is needed. Kalle Grünthal also contributed to an assessment of one of the problems posed by the cross-cutting of the branches of law in the monitoring of the COVID measures. Heili Sepp also admitted the complexity of the situation, but noted that, unlike the previous one, he had not thoroughly examined the issue, so he needed more time to provide an accurate answer. Kalle Grünthal found that a situation where even high legal experts are unable to provide consistent and clear answers is problematic. Order 305 of the Government of the Republic, which is "measures and restrictions necessary to prevent the spread of COVID-19 disease', does not correlate with the law in force and creates problems and contradictions in society. Mr Grünthal felt that this general arrangement was a piece of legislation, "because there is no delegation rule in the law." Heili Sepp said that he said that the general arrangement of the Government of the Republic is trivial, certainly does not agree, but that a difficult situation has indeed arisen because all legal solutions have their drawbacks in this situation. However, in his opinion, the direction should be to improve the existing solutions rather than seek the possibility of declaring them void from the outset. At the same time, he said that he agreed that a large part of the provisions of this general arrangement would in fact have been more reasonable to lay down in law. The Commission took three procedural decisions: to propose a draft on the agenda of the plenary assembly and a final vote on 24 November 2021, to appoint Toomas Kivimägi, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as the representative of the leading commission, and to propose to Heili Sepale, in accordance with Article 17 (3) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, a presentation of up to five minutes before the assembly. All these decisions were taken by consensus. At the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 23 November, it was decided to change the representative of the commission, which I was also consensually appointed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U313	It seems that the members of the Riigikogu have no questions for you. Thank you! And now the Riigikogu Chair is welcome to become a member of the Supreme Court of Heili Sepp. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U314	Mr President, honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I thank you very much for this opportunity to speak before you, and thank you also for the discussions in the political groups. There were some immediate and interesting moments in these conversations that helped me to see things from new angles. Thank you so much for that. I consider the candidacy of a judge of state to be one of the simple but important ways to contribute to the transparency of justice. I assure you that I am already doing and would do, as a judge of state, if you allow, in the best faith, right and fair decisions in accordance with the Constitution and laws of the Republic of Estonia, and I am honest and independent and impartial and loyal to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. However, I believe that, in addition to this promise, as representatives of the people, you have the right to know what kind of world-view person is a candidate for a judge of state. Every judge is a human being, a professional, but still a human being. We don't have robot judges. My view of the world is first and foremost reflected in how I perceive the pains of the justice system. Its view has been shaped by the years I have worked for the state in the area of criminal law, which indeed is immediately 25, and by the lessons that I have learned innumerablely. And I certainly have not put it quite the way that I am missing a judge of state from my CV. I'd rather see it as a really great opportunity than be given that chance. I have worked as a practitioner at the front line of criminal proceedings, the last few years as a judge, but also in lawmaking, the Office of the Chancellor of Justice and also taught students at the University of Tartu for many years. All this brings me to the next few keywords today. First of all, I note that there is some room for improvement in resolving really large criminal proceedings quickly and at the same time in a high-quality manner. And one possible solution is to simplify the procedure for investigating evidence. This could be improved both by practice and by amending the law. Another keyword is public access to justice, both sessions and solutions and materials. This complex task, indeed, awaits the completion of the draft for some time, but until now, of course, this must be dealt with in practice. As with freedom always comes with responsibility, it must be remembered that this issue must go hand in hand with respect for the presumption of innocence. However, access to justice is never complete until the decisions and the work of the courts are understandable. They have to be. The judges must be prepared to explain their decisions in the human language and must also strive to ensure that the reasonings already contained in the judgments are in normal Estonian language and can be monitored without the help of a lawyer. I understand the Constitution in such a way that I am responsible for the preservation of the Estonian language as a lifelong servant of the Estonian state. And, of course, people are important. No one should feel like a second-rate person next to the so-called first-class people. The role of the Court as guarantor of fundamental rights enshrined in the Constitution cannot be underestimated. If a court must be harsh because the law obliges it to do so, it must be. But in criminal proceedings, there must be no impression that a court is superior to a person or that an individual is expected to comply with a better law than the state itself. If that were to happen, it would show the state's penal power to be arbitrary and unjust. Criminal proceedings must strive for both seeming and actual justice, and one of the pillars of this is equality between the parties. In a legal system where a substantial number of criminal cases are resolved in settlement proceedings, it is particularly important that both our prosecutors and lawyers, each of whom plays their part, can be trusted. And one such guarantee of certainty is to ensure the confidentiality of communication between the lawyer and the client, if one example is given. Standards for searches at law firms have been one of the concerns I have deliberately dealt with both as a practitioner and in writing legal literature, which is why last week's human rights court decision did not come as a surprise to me. Those were some of the keywords I mentioned under the pressure of time. Almost five years ago, I was standing right here hoping for your support in another profession, and I assured you that there is nothing more natural for me than to serve the Estonian state. I'll confirm that today. Thank you very much for listening, and if you have any questions, I am very happy to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U315	Honourable Member of the Supreme Court! Indeed, the members of the Riigikogu have questions, and I hope that you too will be able to open your worldview and everything that is not yet said by answering the questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U316	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Honorable candidate of the Supreme Court, brilliant person! Let me ask you a question like that. In November 2017, the time limit for classification of the so-called plastic bag scandal of the Reform Party expired. I will sit in the Postman: "[in the order] the person marked with the XXX symbol, who confirmed on the phone that "the money reached the pot," was the Minister of Social Affairs at the time." The man sitting behind you right now, Hanno Pevkur. Maybe you could shed some light on how that money got into the pot back then, into the reform party pot. I mean the Silvergate investigation that you were carrying, and I think you know best.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U317	I admit it's been almost ten years since this criminal trial, and I can't remember the details of it anymore. So I can't give you any more details about this case. But it was finished because of the absence of a crime. How it started, you probably all know that. That is how I would answer that question now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U318	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U319	Thank you. Thank you for being ready to introduce your mind to the wider world! Paragraph 28 of our Constitution lays down the right to strike as a fundamental right for workers, while the rest of the legislation standardises it quite restrictively, on the one hand, and on the other hand, some things have not been regulated at all. For example, our employees cannot stand for a more favourable pension scheme because it is considered political. Similarly, they do not have the right to walk in a situation where, for example, an entrepreneur has failed to comply with safety rules. If we imagine a hypothetical situation where, nevertheless, workers collectively exercise the right to walk and leave a job where it would be dangerous to continue working, how do you interpret it? Is this an illegal strike that people must somehow be sanctioned for, or is it still a question of protecting their fundamental rights? And why don't you give us a little more insight into what you think about the regulation restricting the right to strike?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U320	I admit that it is actually difficult for me to give a detailed answer to all the questions concerning the right to strike, because this is not my specific area of expertise. And as a lawyer, it's always my habit to get worse before I give you an answer. But I remember that you raised this issue in the context of public officials, if I remember correctly, at our meeting in the group. And then I kind of got into it. I must admit that I am a little reassured by the fact that our situation, however, is, in my opinion, in line with what international conventions and organisations expect of us. In fact, the ILO does not consider this right to be unlimited, and our own constitution also provides that there are opportunities to restrict the right to strike. As far as the limitation of the right of public officials to strike is concerned, when I got into it, I realized that our legislation has tried to solve this problem today by having a large number of people working for the state, 'workers' on the basis of a contract of employment, and they still have slightly softer rules than those of officials. This seemed to me to be a serious question, and at least I am satisfied with our current regulation. I do not consider it possible to answer this question any more at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U321	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U322	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable member of the Supreme Court candidate Heili Sepp! In Estonian there is a very beautiful saying that will lead the swallow to the tree. By this I would like to say that becoming a member of the Supreme Court is still your will at first. I ask what motivates you to become a member of the Supreme Court. You have talked about this in the group, but if you do this very summarily once more, it would be nice.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U323	Yeah, I'll come back again to the fact that it's definitely not that I see that I'm missing one point on my resume. This is really a job that I would like to do for its content. On the one hand, of course, I wouldn't pursue any occupation if I didn't care if I didn't know I wanted to do it from the heart. On the other hand, I hope that I have gathered enough experience by now and that they can really be applied in the work of the Supreme Court in such a way as to benefit from it, that it does not just bring me satisfaction, but that it will be useful. My specific area of interest, to which I have deepened my heart, is fundamental rights in criminal proceedings and, in criminal proceedings, precisely the procedural side, not the substantive side of penal law. What motivates me is that I would like to see Estonian criminal proceedings working as humanely, logically, effectively as possible. And I would like to be one of those who move things in this direction by creating the practice of the Supreme Court. And, of course, I would also like to create as much justice as possible in specific matters for specific people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U324	Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U325	Good President! Honourable member of the Supreme Court candidate Heili Sepp! Thank you for this speech and also for the meeting in the group, where we have already been able to discuss a number of things. What interests me today and what I would like to ask you: you said that it is very important to ensure and respect for the presumption of innocence. We also talked once before about the fact that the press very much allows [the opposite] that it is already beginning to condemn people, and sometimes even after [the different] court settlement has arrived. What is the judge's strategy to avoid being influenced by the press? Do you have any good tricks or tricks how to maintain objectivity and not let the press influence [my] and turn it into a weakness?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U326	You know, here's actually one of those tricks or keys is professionalism. Of course, the guarantee of this is that the judges will not be quite bloody people, but hopefully they will be people who have experienced something, and they already know how criminal proceedings work. And if you're a professional in the field of criminal proceedings, it's certainly in any other field, but it's just a field that I know when you're a judge, then what you work on is evidence. The truth of the evidence is important to you on a daily basis: what is trustworthy, what is not? And the same procedure you're going through in your head and what you're used to helps you distinguish what you get from the evidence and the information that comes from the press. We all know not only the judges, but we all know that information in the press may not always be bona fide. In fact, the more experienced the judge, I think, the less likely the information in the press is to affect him at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U327	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U328	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. Honourable candidate! I have this somewhat theoretical question, which is based on the interpretation of the Constitutional Standard. So either you prefer subjective or objective interpretation. I'll make it clear that it might be better understood by the people. Do you think that the norm of the Constitution is unchanged in time, that is, what it is created and adopted by the creator of the norm, or is the norm of the Constitution interpreted and changed in time when legal relations change? And then is it possible to give new meaning to the constitutional rule?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U329	That is a very interesting question, but I do not think there is quite one answer to that either. If I gave a very extreme yes or no answer, I'd choose one of those options, sooner or later, something would prove me wrong. But one thing's for sure. For me or I, the Constitution is not a so-called dead document; it is a living document, a lively text. And another thing that is also of fundamental importance to me is that this document can only be amended at the very least. This means that I consider it important that, as long as the content of the norm and history allow, it should be interpreted flexibly and, if necessary, in a modern way, but not in a way that contradicts the very original idea. But it must be taken into account that indeed these fathers of our so-called constitution, if you use the American term, the founders of the constitution, they lived at a certain point in time. At a time when some things didn't exist and there were some things that don't matter to us at all. Even if you look at this section of the mystery of messages in the Constitution I hope I answered that question as well as I could.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U330	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U331	[[Remote connection]] Good Mrs. Sepp! Because of your profession, you've been a character of "deep country" for a long time. This is a new story for Estonia. Tell me, is this story only rhetoric that we should not pay attention to, or is it something that needs to be worried about and which, ultimately, may also jeopardise the independence and separation of the authorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U332	I'll specify the question. Let me get this straight. There was a question about the deep state? The term "deep state" is already such a word that he has begun to live his life. To be quite honest, sometimes we use it with our colleagues, but he has, of course, developed such a humorous shade in his own right. But I'm worried about the problem or the term it's called, I actually understand as a human being. And that's why I don't ridicule the use of that word. In order not to have so much of this deep fear of the state and so that we do not have to hold serious disputes in this regard, one solution is, for example, that the Riigikogu itself is, in fact, actively involved in legislative work as much as possible. Then perhaps there would be no question that some officials in ministries and their administration would create too much law and law. But I don't see a big problem. At the same time, I understand where this issue has come from.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U333	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U334	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! We spoke a moment ago about our constitution and its importance and importance. But now we are looking at how the European Union's directives continue to run over the constitutional rights of nation states. There is a big fight between Poland and the European Union about this. If we should have such disagreements in Estonia in the future, what is your position on this matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U335	My position is and cannot be anything other than the effective position of the Supreme Court in the ESM case in 2012. It was then admitted that the Estonian people have given their so-called draft, that we are ready to belong to the European Union under certain conditions. But there is, of course, the fact that, if these conditions change very much, then the Estonian people could have the opportunity to re-evaluate it. But I don't see that the situation has reached that point in any way. So we simply have to cope with the present situation, just as we can.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U336	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U337	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Heili Sepp! I am very pleased to see you as a specialist in the area of criminal law speaking on this board. I have a very simple question. As a specialist, you can answer better. § 54 of the Constitution states that it is the duty of an Estonian citizen to be loyal to the constitutional order and to defend Estonia's independence. If no other means are available, every Estonian citizen has the right to express his own-initiative resistance to the violent change of constitutional order. At the same time, § 231 of the Penal Code says that in the event of violent action against the Republic of Estonia, which is somehow related to the violent amendment of the constitutional order of Estonia, the punishment is this and this. I am interested in how you think of this own-initiative resistance, so that it does not constitute a [crime formation] as a violent action against the Republic of Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U338	Thanks for the question, really a very exciting question. I'm afraid I'm taking a great deal of responsibility on my soul, but I hope you're not going to act now, depending on what I'm telling you. In fact, the key point of this provision of the Constitution, which is also important in the context of penal law, is the same as you referred to. Still, this can be done in a situation where no other means are available. And that's the point of assessment every time someone starts acting, doesn't he really have any other resources? I assume, however, that the legislation of the Republic of Estonia offers all sorts of other ways to legally implement its wishes and plans. But I'm saying it's a matter of a particular case. If you could give me an example at another moment, you could discuss whether or not these other instruments exist.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U339	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U340	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Sepp! In Question Time today, the Minister of the Interior Kristian Jaani, who claimed that there is no border agreement between Estonia and Russia. I have a question for you: do you think there is no border agreement between Estonia and Russia? How, then, will we place the Tartu Peace Treaty in the context of statehood?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U341	We really have the Tartu Peace Treaty, and we also have an unratified border agreement. Yeah, I followed this discussion, and I understand that Mr. Home Secretary's mistake was that he confused the boundary line. I hope I answered that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U342	Dear Heili Sepp, the members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. Thank you very much. And now the Riigikogu goes on with its decisions. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish to negotiate, I will close the negotiations. Now we're going to have a final vote, but before I do, I'm going to do a hall call. Honourable Riigikogu, I would remind you that voting on this point is secret. So, I would like to vote before you on the decision of the Riigikogu, President of the Supreme Court, Villu Kõve, "Appointing Heili Sepa as a Member of the Supreme Court." Mr. Karilaid, do you have a procedural question? Not anymore? Did you find the map? Very good. Then I'll start again. Honourable Riigikogu, I would like to vote before you on the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Appointing Heili Sepa as a Member of the Supreme Court" 485 presented by the President of the Supreme Court, Villu Kõve. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U343	54 members of the Riigikogu supported the proposal, 21 against and 3 abstentions. The decision has been taken. Dear Heili Sepp, success and strength in serving the Supreme Court and the Estonian state!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U344	Agenda item 14 is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Health and Safety at Work and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic and amending the Act on Employment Contracts and related amendments to other laws. I'd like to ask Siret Kotka, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, for a chair on the long-distance route. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U345	[[Remote connection]] Good chairman of the sitting! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! In the Committee on Social Affairs, the amendment of the Health and Safety at Work Act and other laws and the amendment of the [Work Contract] Act and related amendments of other laws were dealt with by [draft] number 456 this year on 15 November. No organisations expressed their views in writing at the inclusion stage. However, the Socialist Group tabled two amendments, to which we also included interest groups from the Estonian Trade Union Confederation and the Estonian Employers' Confederation, as well as the Estonian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises. Riina Sikkut, member of the Riigikogu, presented the amendments to the committee. The first amendment was that sick people and their close contacts with quarantine would receive sickness benefit from day one, 100% of their previous income. The second amendment was to amend the fixed-term sickness benefit regulation, which entered into force on 1 January 2021 and extended on 1 May 2021, as from the second day, into an indefinite period. According to the Socialist Group's [proposal], the cost of the changes would be compensated by the Government of the Republic's reserve fund or the funds of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund. When we asked the interest groups what they thought of these changes, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund pointed out that the Socialist Group's proposal to pay sickness benefit on the basis of the current salary, but today the Health Insurance Fund lacks information about current salaries. Under the current system, sickness benefit is paid on the basis of income taxed on the social tax of the previous year. The Estonian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises did not support the proposals made by the [Social Democrats] Group, stressing that an impact analysis on making the current system permanent would certainly be needed in advance. EVEA also considered that it is no longer appropriate to consider coronavir as a novel dangerous disease, as vaccines and medicines already exist. The Estonian Trade Union Confederation supported the proposals of the Socialist Group. At the same time, the Estonian Employers' Confederation stated that they have not yet formulated their views on the proposal relating to a new dangerous infectious disease, but they see that there is a risk of abuse of compensation. They also support a thorough impact assessment of both proposals in advance. Having listened to the views of the various parties, the Committee on Social Affairs decided not to support the proposals of the Socialist Group. The proposals were supported by 3 and against 6 members of the Commission. The following procedural decisions were also taken, all of which were consensual: to put the draft on the plenary agenda today, 24 November, to close the second reading and, when the second reading is closed, to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda and the final vote be held on 8 December. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U346	Thank you! Looks like there's no questions for you. Thank you very much. Now I'm opening negotiations. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U347	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm talking about sick days, of course. The Social Democrats have tabled two amendments to the draft, which are essentially very important and for which I would like to emphasise this. The first is, in fact, about the crisis measure, the fact that [absence] will be reimbursed 100% of the first day of corona-positive and close contacts. The government's messages say that close contacts are similarly advised to stay at home. But people who work in a large collective do service work are often low-paid and it is unrealistic to expect them to stay home during the fall with a mild cough and cold and put their livelihood at risk. If the government's recommendation is to stay at home in close contact, then it must also be accompanied by compensation that actually allows people to do so. So the first amendment, as a crisis measure, is to compensate [homeing] the corona-positive and their close contacts for 100% of the first day of illness. This is a measure that should have been implemented before the second wave, but for some reason this decision has not come. I think that in a situation where the third wave is about to end, at least we hope for it, but we also need it for the future. The second amendment concerns this joke about the permanent nature of the temporary matter that we are currently having. The Social Democrats submitted a more generous bill of compensation for sick days over a year ago. We have discussed this in this Chamber and rejected this draft at first reading. The government then introduced a temporary reimbursement scheme of 70% for a period of four months from the second day. Then we extended it until the end of this year. Now, within the framework of this bill, we are discussing an extension until the end of next year. Such a hunch has taken place in the case of a measure, for which ministers have also stated that it works, and indeed, sick people are more likely to stay home in a situation where we have more generous sickness benefits. Our second amendment is to make the current sickness benefit regime permanent so that we do not have to extend it every year. Trade unions supporting the amendment, as well as employers, have said that, in principle, the permanentisation of the scheme could be discussed. Surprisingly, the member of the Trade Union Support Group did not support the amendment, but perhaps it was a mistake on his part and today he has the opportunity to express his support for this amendment in the Chamber. If the permanent generous sickness allowance is in place, we will actually overcome the contradiction between the short- and long-term perspective. We are always worried about what this means to this budget or next year's budget without understanding that in the long run, healthier workers and better productivity will be [more beneficial]. The employer also benefits, especially in the case of infectious diseases, from seasonal viral infections or from the current coronal apandemia if a person really stays at home. Understandably, there are positions where teleworking cannot be done and where staying at home does not mean that you can do your job by computer. In this case, staying at home must be supported by sickness benefit. So, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask your support for the Socialist amendments that will be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U348	I don't see any more words. I'm closing the negotiations. So let us examine the amendments that we have received. The first amendment, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, has been rejected by the commission. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U349	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I know I'm a picture of me, but I'm Rock Hard. For better Internet coverage, I turned off the camera. On behalf of the Socialist Group, I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U350	Okay, I got it. Good Riigikogu, I recall that we are voting on 456 amendments to the draft. The first amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been rejected by the lead committee. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U351	The proposal was supported by 11; 53 were opposed. The proposal was not supported. The second amendment has been tabled in the same way by the Group of the Social Democratic Party and the lead committee has rejected it. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U352	... vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U353	Although the beginning disappeared, we realized that the Socats wanted to vote for it. So, since we have just carried out the vote, I believe that we can go to that vote. No objections. So, Anneli Ott? Disappeared. I guess it was an accident. I shall put to the vote the second amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U354	11. Against 51. The proposal was not supported. We have examined the amendments and concluded the second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U355	Let us move on to our 15th item, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the Environmental Monitoring Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, with the number 440. The presentation will be made by the Environment Committee, Timo Suslov. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U356	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft Act amending the Environmental Monitoring Act initiated by the Government of the Republic was completed on 27 October. No amendments were tabled by the deadline for the submission of amendments. A meeting of the Committee on the Environment followed, which took place on 15 November and discussed procedural decisions. The following decisions were taken: to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on 24 November, which is then today, and to propose to stop the second reading. And if the second reading is completed, refer the draft to the third reading. There is nothing else to add to that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U357	It seems that the members of the Riigikogu have nothing to ask. Thank you! As you have heard, no amendments have been tabled. The commission has proposed that the second reading of the draft be stopped, but we will also be able to give an opinion during the negotiations. I don't see that wish. I'm closing the negotiations. That concludes the second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U358	Our 16th item is the second reading of the Bill 368 of Amendment to the Copyright Act (transposition of the Copyright Directives) initiated by the Government of the Republic. By the Committee on Culture, Üllar Saaremäe presents the draft. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U359	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Riigikogu! I'm in front of you with 368 SE's second reading. A bit of history, too, because this is a bill that has been in the process for quite a while and perhaps even the reasons why we are dealing with it have already been forgotten. The draft law amending the Copyright Act was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 5 April 2021. The draft amends the Copyright Act by virtue of two EU directives: the DSM Directive and the so-called "Kab-Sat2 Directive." The objectives of the DSM Directive are to enable greater public access to and access to digital content online and across borders; secondly, to clarify the rules on free use for bodies in the fields of research, education and cultural heritage; and thirdly, to provide a fair and sustainable market for artists, creative industries and the media. The Kab-Sat2 Directive amends the rules on the exercise of copyright and related rights applicable to broadcasters, certain web broadcasts and the retransmission of television and radio broadcasts in order to promote the dissemination of programmes and thus improve the availability of content, and also across borders. The first reading of the draft was completed on 5 May this year. No amendments were tabled by the deadline of 19 May. The Committee on Culture requested the views of stakeholders involved in the preparation of the draft by 3 May. The opinion of the Cultural Commission was presented by the Estonian Authors' Association, the Estonian Artists' Association, the Estonian Foundation of Phonogram Producers' Association, the Estonian Film Industry Cluster, the Estonian Film Operators' Association, the Estonian Publishers' Association, Facebook, Google, the Tallinn Central Library, the Estonian Information Technology and Telecommunications Association and the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. In preparation for the second reading of the bill, the Commission also received additional requests from the Tallinn Central Library, the Estonian Publishers' Association and the Estonian Fonogram Manufacturers' Association. The Commission prepared the draft for a second reading at the following meetings: 1 and 15 June, 21 September, 19 October and 16 and 22 November. In preparation for the second reading of the draft, the Committee on Culture discussed on 1 June, together with stakeholders' representatives and the Ministry of Justice, the proposals put forward by stakeholders. During the meeting, the discussion of the Committee on Culture focused on the issues raised by stakeholders. Firstly, [we dealt] with the obligation to notify the author's agreement, including the amendment of the author's agreement, the termination or withdrawal of the author's agreement. If there are interest groups on this or that side of the screen, uncrypto [attended § 491]. Secondly, [We] dealt with the liability of the platform provider in communicating the subject of rights to the public and making it available to the public, [Added § 571], additional terms such as "educational institution," "motivated volume," "Illustrative material," definition in the Copyright Act, the scope of the exemption for education in the field of free use of works in education and cultural heritage institutions, and the use of the object of non-commercial rights in cultural heritage institutions. And fourthly, we addressed the proposal of film operators to switch to the so-called contractual model and to abolish the legal transition of property rights, which is the basis of the current practice. Unfortunately, this latter cannot be corrected by these directives. The responses of the initiator of the draft act to interest groups and these proposals are available on the Riigikogu website. I'm not going to read them out here for a while. On 15 June, 21 September and 19 October, the Committee on Culture discussed as an important topic the proposal of the Estonian Artists' Association to define the concept of an educational institution in § [19] of the Copyright Act and to make terminological clarifications in the Act, to replace the "learning objective" with the "education objective." The Committee on Culture accompanied the Ministry of Education and Research on these issues, who presented a written statement to the Commission and explained that although grammarly the concept of an educational institution is somewhat broader than that of an educational institution, it does not change the situation that the educational institution is primarily meant to include educational institutions where learning takes place and learning according to the curriculum registered in the Estonian Education Information System. With regard to the term "educational objective" of the Copyright Act, the Ministry of Justice further stated that without an in-depth analysis, it is not clear what impact such a substitution could have. The Ministry of Justice will therefore commission a study on the practical importance of educational exceptions in the conduct of studies. This would help to assess the impact of these exceptions on rightholders. According to these answers, the Committee on Culture did not initiate amendments on the basis of the positions of the ministries. On 15 June and 19 October, the Committee on Culture discussed copyright regulation as one of the main topics which provides a framework for assessing which work or subject matter of related rights can be considered to be out of trade and therefore easier to use by cultural heritage institutions. Paragraph 572 (1) of the Copyright Act is a general rule. In the case of objects covered by copyright, the cultural heritage authority must make a reasonable effort to know whether the work, the object of the rights, is in trade turnover. In addition to this general assumption, a somewhat more favourable regime has been created in subsections 3 to 7 of the same section. In accordance with paragraph 3, a work, or object of rights, which is protected by copyright and is created at least 50 years before its use, shall no longer be subject to trade turnover unless there are obvious circumstances which preclude it. By obvious circumstances, we can actually consider that it cannot be known to the cultural heritage institution that the work is still being marketed, marketed or sold, or available on platforms somewhere. The Association of Estonian Publishers proposed to exclude books on the application of paragraph 3. The Committee on Culture accompanied this topic to the debate of the Ministry of Culture, which, together with the Ministry of Justice, submitted a written position to the Commission. The ministries admitted that due to the new regulation the burden on rightholders would increase somewhat. At the same time, the possibility remains for rightholders to exclude at any time that the object of the rights created by them will be used on the basis of a new mechanism created by law. Perhaps in plain language, the author can always refuse to grant permission to use what he has done. The section on books was also clarified at the hearing. It was mentioned that the National Library allows lists of works for which they have a potential interest to be placed on its website and only then will they be included in the EUIPO database, the European Union Intellectual Property Agency. The amendment was also not initiated on the basis of these explanations. On 16 November, the Committee on Culture discussed the opinion of the Association of Estonian Phonogram Producers. The main issue raised by the association was that there is too little time for authors and performers to be informed. It is known that the law should have entered into force on 7 June 2021, and now this information obligation should have come into force [a year later], leaving them only 5 to 6 months [to bring their activities into line with the law]. In the Committee on Culture, a representative of the Ministry of Justice explained that a more flexible interpretation of [the provision] is currently possible. In carrying out these duties, account shall be taken, as far as possible, of the different practices and practices of the profession or profession. As a result, it would be possible for the debtor to be able to rely on the fact that the provision of information is possible once a year, also taking into account the duration of the financial year and the resulting reporting period, in the event of the performance of the obligation, which would be 7 June 2022. Therefore, both 2021 and 2022 can be reported simultaneously by the obliged party at the beginning of 2023. All transitional provisions in the Copyright Act, including those concerning the obligation of authors and performers to notify, have been left unchanged in the draft. According to the Ministry of Justice, the deadlines deriving directly from the Directive cannot be changed, as that is the position of the European Commission. At its meeting on 16 November, it was decided that the Committee on Culture should submit amendments and that procedural decisions were taken. Three amendments were tabled by the Committee on Culture. The necessary linguistic and technical changes were introduced in the draft. The changes made to the text of the bill are underlined by this I say to the interested parties. The Committee on Culture's amendments are also supported by the Ministry of Justice as the initiator of the draft. I am very sorry that I am telling you all this for so long, but since it was six meetings, it is not possible to bring them together in a few words. And now a few words about the amendments. The purpose of the first amendment is to point out, for the sake of clarity, that § 579 (3) and § 5710 (1) of the Copyright Act contain cumulative, not alternative, obligations on platform providers. In other words, if the platform provider demonstrates that it has taken all the measures mentioned in the above paragraphs, the platform provider shall not be liable for the unauthorised disclosure by the user of his service of the object of rights to the public or for making it available to the public via the platform provider's website. This was fully taken into account by the Committee on Culture. The purpose of the second amendment is to formulate a more precise obligation on platform providers to improve legal clarity. The amendment is based on a proposal from interest groups, namely the Estonian Artists' Association, the Estonian Foundation of Phonogram Producers and the Estonian Authors' Association. In short, as a result of this amendment, it is clear that a platform provider must take measures to fulfil its obligations in order not to block but to allow legitimate uploads. So it's for direct user protection. The Committee on Culture has taken full account of this proposal. Third amendment: delete § 2 from [the draft law]. § 2 of the Bill is the original time of entry into force of the Act, which has passed. It should have been 7 June 2021. As a result, the law will enter into force in general terms, i.e. on the 10th day following its publication in the Official Journal of the State. The Committee on Culture took full account of this. And now, finally, the procedural decisions and proposals of the commission. The Committee on Culture proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading. a on 24 November 2010 a proposal to conclude the second reading. When the second reading of the draft is closed, the Commission's proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for the third reading is on 8 December this year and then to hold a final vote. All procedural decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U360	Thank you very much. We can go to the questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U361	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good waitress! Noble, you're a very good actor, and I think that present performance of yours, that monoply was really enjoyable. I think you could take it on a little tour. But my question is how the Estonian creative federations have managed all of this for six years without this euro regulation 679. Why don't you say briefly and in a clear Estonian language, what's the use of this for Estonian creative people? Two sentences.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U362	Thank you very much, good questioner. There's a lot to do using your witty expression. Firstly, which is not of any minor importance and which has much to do with, and which is much to be desired, is that authors now have the right to have an overview of the total income earned by their works. It is not just sales revenue that we are talking about. So far, they haven't had the right to ask. This is important in many respects. Take, for example, the film operator's specialty. The operator doesn't know how much the film he's taken has earned, so he may not be able to count his own market price. But if he learns from now on how much his work has actually brought in, it will certainly not only increase his confidence but also increase his salary. Like one of those things. The same is true for musicians, and the same is true for writers and artists. You asked for a brief answer, and I tried to respond briefly. So this is really an extremely important change.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U363	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U364	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Dear waitress, It was, and indeed is, an extremely large and complex draft, which is also demonstrated by the length of the procedure. Before going to second reading, the Committee on Culture discussed this, and that is what you emphasised in your presentation. And what is important is that these six times the Commission's work was substantive, because a consensual decision was taken on all the amendments and there were quite a number of proposals from stakeholders. But my question is a little bit like the questioner's. You're a creative person yourself. How much have you personally encountered copyright problems in your work so far, and will this bill, if adopted, improve the lives of the authors?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U365	Thank you very much. When the Committee on Culture unanimously agreed that I could present this bill, I, of course, began with a tremendous enthusiasm, trying to break in all the possible doors by contacting the various groups of authors, trying to understand their concerns and problems. And I have, unfortunately, come to the conclusion that, unfortunately, by transposing these directives, we will not solve their problems. In fact, there are very, very many issues that we should raise, which we should be dealing with. We're going to take the same long-awaited film law that might end up on this subject. I, as a personal answer, have never been able to ask how many films or serials I have brought in. I didn't even know I was right. I have faithfully done my job for the wages that the producers have offered me, and I've been happy with that. But now the law gives me the right to actually start looking a little further and insist that you be good, give me an overview.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U366	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U367	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! After all, you had that fair reward he'd come over there to discuss. I will now see that, at this point, 90% of the remuneration received goes to the producers of phonograms and 10% goes to performers. But those people who are studio musicians, they're out of this circle. As a general rule, 50: 50 for Estonian authors and producers of phonograms have been distributed, then 90% for phonogram producers and 10% for [presenters]. Can you tell me more about the debate or the argument that was there and what was on top of it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U368	Good fight partner and member of the support group of the Estonian Authors' Association where we are together! You could have warned me you'd ask. There's been so many meetings that I can't actually reconstruct what came out of arguments one, two or three. But as far as I can tell, it didn't take much time. We were given an overview of this, yes, we were informed, but there was no further discussion in the Commission on this matter. So, good fight buddy, we still have to deal with this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U369	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U370	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! You mentioned the authors who these authors could be? One side is also photography. On the bill, you mentioned that now we're gonna find out how much we're gonna cost. But I have experience of myself that I noticed a few weeks ago that my photograph had been used by national broadcasting, but it was not mentioned that it was my photo, but it was just signed that it was a private collection. And after that, a lot of portals used it further so it's a private collection of the ERR. How could I know how much this picture would cost? You told me how the movie and somewhere else have been. It's just, if anyone asks me, I always promise to use my picture, I've never asked for money for photographs in my life. I take a lot of photos. But it was such an interesting case that I saw my photo of a consecutive and subsequent event, a very sad one.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U371	The answer is very simple: you must first make it clear that you are the owner of this photo and that it is really you who is on it and that these rights belong to you. And after that, you have the right to ask the photographers and users for an overview of how much they have earned with your image as an author. And then you just write a check. I hope so.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U372	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U373	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good waitress! I heard that you had such a scholastic dispute there, that what is an educational institution and an educational establishment, whether they are the same and what is their grip. But were there other concepts that you discussed for a long time? Well, for example, that you shouldn't be called an actor, you should be called an actress? And where did such a need for such a scholastic dispute come from, in any of the euro regulations?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U374	Thank you, exciting question! Once again, we could have made an excerpt. Yeah, let's say this educational and educational theme is probably the most marked example, or it's basically justified, but my own favorite is... Now, one moment, good Peter, I'll find it. I'd love to help you right now. In short, the expression "reasonable efforts." Yeah! A reasonable effort must be made by one or more authorities to identify the author. What exactly does it mean and for whom it isn't like that and for whom it isn't? In fact, there were such subjects, Peter, where we were entangled in the lyrics. For example, 'expected expectation'. Well, I understand what it really means, but if you put those words in a sentence, you might get a lot of confusion. But there was, yeah, an exciting word well.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U375	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U376	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Were there some things in this big debate that may not have been reflected, but were allowed to come back to again, or was it classically said that, oh, we have a draft law coming up in the ministry right away, that we have been working on it? What were the things that we cannot regulate today, let us leave it for the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U377	Yes, I heard or heard this sentence often, as I said, that, unfortunately, by transposing these directives, we cannot solve this or another problem, but it is not relevant at the moment and it should be dealt with later, and it should be dealt with more seriously, to carry out analyses and studies. That's the way things are. Once again, I stress, I myself asked a number of questions about precisely the problems of the film world, and I was given pleasant feedback that, yes, it will soon be dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U378	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U379	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. My question specifically pushes the question or explanation of Mr Kruusimäe, where he said that he understands that 90% of the fees go to producers and 10% to performers. Not one word from the authors. Am I right to understand that the whole purpose of this law is to ensure that 90% of producers receive income, i.e. to make producers "big beneficiaries" or how?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U380	Thank you for your question. However, it is primarily intended to protect authors, that is the transposition of these directives. The problem of the percentage distribution for some reason is deeper. And here I would encourage [the authors] myself, I hope that the tools that are now added to the authors to protect their rights will give them the courage and strength to stand up for themselves, so that the percentages, which the good co-worker Tarmo Kruusimäe hinted, will change. That's all I know right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U381	But now it seems that the questions have run out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U382	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U383	We can open negotiations. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U384	Thank you, good vice chairman. Dear colleagues, the fighters you are in this room, and you, who are still available in the offices, and, of course, those who are a little further away! Naturally, all Estonian authors, Estonian performers and producers of phonograms should also be welcomed! The movie world is something I don't really share, but there were good points here. And I immediately recall one of Leo Kunnas's speeches, [where he said] to be in China in this movie, where he is co-author of the '1944', downloaded and perhaps [widely shared] a few million times. If I'd gotten one euro for it, Leo would buy us all hats. But that's not what I wanted to talk about. This whole group of letters that's in there is really interesting. When we were here handling the empty tape fee, they were all somehow grouped together as a single team. There is now a small difference of opinion between the Estonian Artists' Association and the producers of phonograms. Today, it is broadly the case that the money coming from restaurants and everywhere else goes in half. So copyrights have long been guaranteed, half goes to the producer and half goes to the Estonian Artists' Association, who distributes it among performers. Some say what the difference is. Let me give you a simple example. Francis Goya, who played these Valgre songs here, didn't she, as a performer, actually get no reward, I think it wouldn't be so inspiring for him [remuneration], because his popularized and introduced Valgre stories might not attract everyone. But we actually win here, this artist is important. Or, well, Vello Orumets was not the author of any of the songs or the lyrics, but he was the author. Today we have come to the point that as a performer [meaning] the beautiful face that sings is, after all. [He's] the main performer, but there are people who are in the studio doing studio work. For example, if Francis Goya came to a young star [support] and sang and played behind it, he would simply do it out of pure altruism. He wouldn't get that reward if he had background power. I think that little thing we can really distribute here, we could process it. It's a sore spot. But, well, as I said, if there is already something to distribute, if there are any rights under the directive, then here the state could actually establish itself a little bit and say, as we have here in the Riigikogu, this beautiful expression that according to practice, since you have already distributed 50:50, you could... But I see that the producers of phonograms said that, oh, they like the Ministry of Justice's position that it still remains 90[%] and 10[%]. Its 10[%] will then become like the main performer and the rest of the others will not. A very simple comparison would be. Then a representative of the Ministry of Justice said that an impact analysis should now be carried out here. Who should carry out this impact analysis, who will have access to these data and who will not have it, is a question of their own, but I will give a simple, very distinctive example. Imagine that the men of the Riigikogu receive nine kilos of wages, women receive ten kilos of wages. But then they say, "Whoa-whoa-whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, But then they say, oh-oh-oh, but we need an impact analysis. So, what's the effect? Women don't drink that much beer, they don't spend money on beer to feel good. And chocolate's always a lot cheaper than beer, isn't it? Consequently, this proportion is already in place in itself. I think that, as recipients of the law, we should still be guided by the fact that all of us are actually good. I'm still reading music as a big consumer who's been playing on the record. It puts such an interesting hierarchy in place that he's been here and there, who, let's say, background singers have been. Our famous background singers have already made their own ensemble, published a book, they have come into the sun, but they would have been merely background forces and would have lost [the reward]. There's a lot of pain, and I don't think the Ministry's gonna come up with it. I think that the directive is the right place to fix it, but, well, the performers were taken care of this time. The performers were second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U385	Thank you. Tarmo, you probably have no idea how much a woman's hairdresser costs. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U386	[[Remote connection]] Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I wasn't going to talk, but while listening to Mr Saaremäe's magic monoply, I closed my eyes and tried to understand what he was saying. Honestly, I didn't understand anything. I was now looking at the interest at the end of this European regulation, which is its number, 679 on 27 April 2016, already five years ago, signed by Martin Schulz. It's 88 pages of tight text. 88 pages! There are about ten pages of section terms: "genetic," "biometric," what things these are, etc., etc. That's a really, really, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, And now if I look at this draft 368 that we're proposing, it's a little bit more than that: ten pages or what it comes out. I now think that this is one directive that I have not really been able to read. My colleague Saaremäe has probably read it, or I really doubt that he has read it. But now the lawmakers have made this concentration of 679 of its 88 pages, [which have] various references in pages. The take-over was supposed to be by 7 June [made], well, I realize it's still a real padre. All these scholastic disputes, which are educational institutions or educational institutions, etc., really gives a lot of work to officials and also to the people affected. But I realized that it's kind of helpful, even if Mr Leo finds out how much he could have made with his film in China, or Supreme, too, on his serials. But above all, I wanted to talk about this new directive, in this case a regulation that has been in force for five years. And now we've finally come through this mess somehow, to a second reading. But when you think about how the world works! Somewhere in Brussels, a regulation is being drawn up, hard work is being done, then distributed to the Member States, the national parliaments, trying to climb through the thickets. We're gonna listen to all this, make some adjustments. Those who do not know anything about it, as I do, have only just discovered this new euro regulation. Well, it's kind of a blur. Are we a sovereign state? Do we have any sense that we can organise our own activities, whether or not in this area, without the Brussels regulations or directives? The need for harmonisation when we cross national borders within the European Union is elementary. But it has just been very interesting to study all of this in this euro regulation or in this jungle in the last quarter of an hour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U387	Thank you very much. I do not see any more requests to speak, and I can conclude the negotiations. We also have amendments; we now need to review them. First of all, the first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Culture and the Committee on Culture has taken full account of it. The second amendment is also proposed by the Committee on Culture and has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. And the third amendment, the author's Committee on Culture and the Steering Committee have taken full account of it. We have examined all the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of Bill 368. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U388	Today's 17th item is the second reading of the draft law on supplementing maritime safety initiated by the Government of the Republic. I invite a chair to the presentation by Annely Akkermann, member of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U389	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to remind you briefly that the content of the draft amendment to the Maritime Safety Act, 455, is a 50% reduction in the fee due for water from January to December 2022. The draft passed the first reading in the Riigikogu on 27 October this year. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the draft for second reading first of all on 8 November this year. Jaak Viilius, Head of the Maritime Economics Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, introduced support measures for fishing vessels in connection with COVID more widely than envisaged in the draft, because the Estonian Shipowners' Association had sent a letter to the Riigikogu and asked for funds to be allocated to continue the special regime of passenger ships in 2022. The special regime for passenger ships has been introduced by the Government of the Republic Regulation 57, but resources should be provided for this in the 2022 budget. And there are two measures. Let us start with a reduction in the fees for waterways, which is the content of this draft. All vessels were exempted from the fees from 1 April 2020 until 31 March 2021. From 1 April to 31 December this year, a reduced rate of 50% will apply to all ships entering Estonian ports or ports. The pre-crisis waterway charge was €18 million, including a passenger ship share of just under 50%. In this respect, it is important to note that due to the reduction of water prices, the volume of goods in the Port of Tallinn alone increased by 7%, while the total volume of goods in the Baltic Sea region decreased by 7.9%. It is worth taking a little break and thinking that suddenly Estonian waterway fees were a little high in the Baltic Sea competition even before the COVID crisis and its effects arrived. The second measure, the special regime for passenger ships, means the refund of labour taxes on the basis of income and social contributions paid in Estonia and on the basis of the tax paid by members of the crew, which is the 2.5-fold difference between the minimum wage calculated for ratings 1,5 and the minimum wage calculated for managers. The introduction of the special regime has been authorised by State aid until 2023. It is estimated that the measure will have an impact on 3000 jobs on ships and 100 jobs on shore, mainly in four companies. Moreover, these ships serve routes between Estonia and Finland and Sweden. These countries are known to be Estonia's largest trading partners, including 25% of Estonia's exports to these countries. Therefore, support measures for shipping are not only measures for shipping, but support measures for the Estonian economy as a whole and their importance cannot be underestimated. EUR 3,7 million was disbursed in 2020 and EUR 7,7 million is planned for 2021. According to the Department of Transport, they may be exhausted by the end of the year and the last part of the aid must be paid out proportionally. This is the overview provided by Jaak Viilitus to the Commission on 8 November. By initiating the draft, the government envisaged a 25% reduction in the fee for waterways. The EKRE Group has proposed an amendment to the draft to reduce the waterway charge by 50%. On 8 November, the Commission's advisor stated that the amendment proposed by the EKRE meant whether the first paragraph of the draft was taken into account. The draft contains two paragraphs. Mr Breivel confirmed that the amendment did indeed concern the first paragraph. It was decided to continue the discussion at its meeting on 9 November. Two amendments were considered on 9 November. The first was the amendment tabled by the EKRE on the 50% reduction in the fee for waterways, which was taken into account in substance. The second amendment was an amendment by the commission, which was correctly formulated, as the amendment by the EER had to be corrected initially. The amendment proposed by the commission was to replace the part of the text in § 1 by "25 per cent" by "50 per cent," which was fully taken into account by the commission. Further procedural decisions were taken on 9 November. Firstly, to put the draft on the plenary agenda by today, 24 November. Secondly, propose that the second reading be stopped. Third, when the second reading is closed, it is proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda and that the final vote be taken on 7 December 2021. The decisions were taken by consensus. The decision was made by Riho Breivel, Jüri Jaanson, Siim Kallas, Mikhail Korb, Kristen Michal, Sven Sester, Mikhail Stalnukhin and the speaker here. In the meantime, the circumstances changed, which is why the Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the draft once again at its meeting on 22 November. Minister Taavi Aas stated that due to the lack of budgetary resources, the reduction in the fee for waterways should be limited to 45%. Such amendments have been sent to the Chamber and you have them. The point one is the amendment proposed by the EERE with the revised wording to reduce the waterway charge by 50%, and the second is the proposal of the commission, the Committee on Economic Affairs, to reduce the rate of the waterway charge by 45%. The government did indeed work very hard to find budgetary resources, both to reduce the waterway charge to 50% and to continue the special regime for passenger ships until the end of 2022. As a result, the Ministry of Economic Affairs announced yesterday that the financial cover had been found for this purpose. I ask that we vote on both proposals and support the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party to reduce the part of the water fee due by 50% for January to December 2022. The other one proposed by the Committee on Economic Affairs to reduce by 45% rather than to support it. Such serious work is being done in finding these funds in the ministries of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Finance, in our Committee on Economic Affairs and in our colleagues in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Yes, it must be said that there is cooperation between the coalition and the opposition. Of course, this draft is linked to the state budget and the opposition must now support the adoption of the 2022 budget in addition to implementing these good decisions. That's all I got.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U390	Thank you. Questions too. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U391	Good manager! Good waitress! Let's start by saying that at first reading, I went to the booth and from this very speaker's point of view I discussed these two issues very strongly: the same 50% reduction in the water fare and support for international passenger shipping. I would very much like to stress that these decisions have been made here, not in the government. The government must certainly look at its own budget. But I am pleased to inform you that the Committee on Monetary Affairs yesterday supported two proposed amendments to support both international passenger shipping and a 50% reduction in the price of the waterway. This cooperation is good and I am pleased that you, as rapporteur for this draft, have realised that the proposals made by the opposition are good proposals. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U392	Yes, I have to admit that maritime affairs is an area where it seems that the opposition and coalition work perfectly hand in hand, would say even [so]. And the government and the coalition ambassadors have been actually searching and making an effort. I will also say that the cost of this five percentage points, the difference between 45 and 50, is EUR 900000. It will be hardest to find the last sources of coverage for these costs, and every EUR 100000 will be very difficult to find.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U393	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U394	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good waitress! One of the ways it was, the voyage fee for a cruise boat, is EUR 12,000. I'm asking you, Annely, where did the government take that 25%? Consequently, the amount proposed was EUR 3000. Well, we offered 6,000 euros. In the meantime, the Economic Commission had 5400 [EUR] on one ship, on that cruise ship, as it is called. Where are these numbers even taken? I mean originally, by the government. Because it actually means that those who need this help get less. But where did these numbers come from originally?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U395	The Committee on Economic Affairs certainly did not discuss individual waterway charges for individual ships, because even sea-going vessels are of very different sizes and all of them have different water-based fees depending on their size. The Economic Commission based its decisions on data compiled and submitted by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, based on statistics from previous years.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U396	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U397	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! It is always good to see the future president of the Estonian Maritime Support Group speaking, who shares the fight. My question is that this certificate of competence, it is also a matter of maritime safety. Did the Ministry not come up with some of these newer proposals of this kind, perhaps to allow third-country nationals to be issued?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U398	Thank you very much for your good word, Mr Kruusimäe. However, I think that your question concerns draft 470 which, in turn, concerns the transposition of the directive in relation to the free movement of labour in inland navigation. The qualifications requirements for seafarers were not addressed in the current draft, and I am not prepared to comment on this second draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U399	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U400	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I listened carefully to your answers, and I very much liked or was interested in your reply to a good colleague, Aivar Koka, that the law on maritime safety is a law in which the opposition and the coalition always cooperate. Why don't you tell me, because of your statement, what other laws could we have so that we could work together and we would be in agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U401	I think that there were several drafts in this Chamber today too, where the coalition and the opposition voted unanimously. Once, when Parliament was holding its birthday, there was a scientific conference on [the subject] how Parliament would vote. And according to statistics, more than half of the drafts in the opposition and coalition vote in unity. Mostly foreign contracts. And when you look at today's agenda, as I recall, there were quite a few drafts, so the whole table, where our voting results are visible, was green.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U402	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U403	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good waitress! I am glad to hear that our proposal was supported. But above all, it is specifically about our ships that are sailing here. How much is that at this moment? Normally we're like government rubber stamps here, but with the current bill, it looks like it's the other way around. How much is that? The government was relatively stingy, offering a 25% or a quarter reduction, we offered half, and then that 45% out there somewhere in between. What is the amount of money that we, as a parliament at this moment, leave to Estonian seafarers who sail in our ports and with which we will ease their lives? How much is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U404	Time, Peter!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U405	Yes, a good colleague! The amount received from the waterway charges before the COVID crisis is 18 million and can be estimated that 50% is 9 million and 25% is 4.5 million. That is the effect of this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U406	I don't see any more questions. Thank you very much. We can go to the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U407	Thank you very much for all your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U408	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U409	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, It's really good to be here today. A few moments ago, we were talking about the issue of excise duties and we have to remember that in the previous government we started cutting excise duties during the additional budget, and when we raised this issue again in the spring with the draft at the beginning of April in order to continue it, it took six months, and the coalition understood it. It's the exact same thing with the shipping fees. During the last government, during the extra budget, we took the water road charge to zero. Thanks to this, the only ports in the Baltic Sea region were Estonian ports, where more ships landed, while in the rest of the ports it decreased. It's 50% this April 1st of this year. And it was done in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Both decisions in cooperation with the Government and the Committee on Monetary Affairs. A few weeks ago during the first reading of the same law, when I came to this speaker's desk, I raised exactly the same two problems that why we're talking about 25%, we're talking about 50%. The results of all the studies show that when 18 million money was taken from a country with a zero, 32 million came from the state budget. It is clear today that 50% can still be kept that ships come to Estonian ports in the same way as they have come before. Our neighbours, our competitors in a good way, have also realised that the tax on the port's waterway charges is a very important component, and it has been noticed both on the Finnish side and on the Latvian side, and they too have started to reduce. I am also pleased that yesterday, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, our party's proposal for a 50% reduction in waterway charges to take place and, on the other hand, passenger ships are also important. It is clear that passenger shipping in the Estonian maritime sector is very important, travel traffic between Finland and Sweden. In today's crisis, it is shipping that is difficult, we know that there are so many restrictions in relation to the corona, the number of passengers has decreased. But at the same time, road transport, the transport of goods has improved considerably, and on the one hand it has kept the shipping sector's noses on the water. However, this has not been enough because passenger ships have not so much and important ticket revenues, but what passengers consume and buy while driving in both bars and shops. That's what's brought revenue. And I am also pleased to tell you that yesterday the Committee on Monetary Affairs unanimously supported international passenger shipping. It is also possible to move forward with this support, so cooperation is very important. But I want to emphasise that there is courage in this cooperation in the committees too. As our previous President said, the Riigikogu is not a rubber stamp, but the Riigikogu is actually making decisions. And just as you in the Committee on Economic Affairs had the problem that either 25%, 45% or 50% of the business must be believed in professionals and entrepreneurs, because taxes are collected from business. It's not like I always remember... Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U410	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U411	... we had some formations back here by a minister who was asked where the money came from and thought that Eesti Pank and Eesti Pank had to come from the state budget. No, money comes from entrepreneurship and then taxes so that we can offer different services, social services and other services, so that the people of Estonia can live very well. I am delighted, sincerely pleased, that the coalition has begun to believe in the opposition's proposals and to think along in the economy. Annely as an entrepreneur, not only a politician, but as out and out of the sea in particular, and shipping is a girl from the island close to her heart, will certainly feel this area very well. That support has been there. I ask and wish all members of the Riigikogu the courage in their committee to stand up for the right things. Promoting the economy and creating positive economic conditions is a prerequisite for our economy to grow. And through the growth of our economy, the people of Estonia are also able to obtain much more benefits, because only by raising taxes have no country become rich yet. I'd like to see it happen right now. I guess we in this Chamber, who are several members here, have experienced some time ago when trying to fill the state budget by raising taxes. No, I didn't. Well, we did, but not our own country. A colleague here said that there is nothing wrong with taxes going to Latvia. Yes, it is. If consumption is made in Estonia, but taxes go to Latvia, that is a concern, because in the social sphere we have to pay for this concern. So strength and strength! And once again, I hope that the hall will support the adoption of this draft. I would stress that the Committee on Monetary Affairs has supported a 50% reduction in waterway charges and support for international passenger ships. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U412	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U413	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good co-workers here and in offices and everywhere in Estonia! Of course, all sailors, sailors and people who love Estonia as a sea country very much! And that the big project, that all ships under the flag of Estonia, would go well in all respects. We were always talking about the terrible importance of the shore sector, that not all this money comes out of the tonnage tax. Why am I saying this right now? I'm not very qualified in maritime law now. My sailing days were in the last millennium, and beyond that, after the captain's papers on the cruise ship, I don't have a big bump to show you that I know and I know. However, there is one such idea out of the frame how money could be received in Estonia. It is a certificate of STCW documents, called certificates of competence or how it is now. And please follow my reasoning. At present, there are some 150,000 sailors in Ukraine, one third of whom are ship officers, and they need to continuously [their] upgrade and [to] study. Most of them, however, naturally work under the flags of other countries and are freelancers, so they are a lost nation in their economic analyses in the sense of Ukraine today. But every five years they need [renewing the sheriffs]. And this place could be Estonia, because Estonia is actually the same same country as IMO STCW, which means that it recognizes each other. The thing is, with their certificates of competence, they could come to Estonia, go through these trainings here, and the money would go... Let's say, the simplest example would perhaps be that if the average amount of this kind was 2,000 euros that would cost these trainings, and for example 10% of the seafarers would kind of go away, then 10% is 15,000 [seamen], we multiply it by 2,000 [euro] and we get 30 million to the Estonian state. In fact, this is all quite feasible, because we say that today we have almost such an opportunity and the Transport Board also grants permissions to citizens of third countries, including Ukraine, who are citizens of the Estonian state. But we're talking about keeping their certificates of competence in Estonia. From what I'm talking about right now, I might as well say at the Tallinn Council that you can now pull in, here are sensitive personal data, people will not hear about this idea. But I think that those who spy [disperse this idea and] another country will do it. There is nothing else to be done for this, but I will read it to you, it is the training and qualification requirements for members of the ship's family and the procedure for certification, § 32 "Subjects, issue and duplicate of a certificate of competency and a certificate of competency." There should be a slight change in the wording [for example] that the Transport Board issues a certificate of competency or a certificate of competency to an Estonian citizen or to an alien or stateless person holding an Estonian residence permit or right of residence or an e-residency who has a proper seagoing service in this Regulation and who has completed training in accordance with the requirements of this Regulation or obtained a corresponding qualification in a maritime educational institution operating or operating abroad. There are no major risks here, because there are no costs, that is what should be done and they would use it every year. In the case of a good forecast alone, 2.5 million of Estonia's VAT would receive this money. But why I'm talking about it is that I suggested that Minister Taavi Aasa talk about it, but he said he didn't understand the subject. "Put it together, memo. " I'm not a memowriter. Maybe Annely, who did you hear that point? Let's do it! Very good! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U414	Thank you. Kristen Michal, is there a talk or a line?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U415	[[Remote connection]] Speaking on the spot, if it is all right with the President.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U416	But please, yes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U417	Thank you. Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be brief. I am simply adding so much, because a good colleague, Aivar Kokk, who remembered everyone with a good word, made it look like a confrontation between the government and the Riigikogu. This was not really the case, although the problem or concern was identified by Riigikogu and Riigikogu ambassadors and the Committee on Economic Affairs, as well as various political groups. I would rather thank the government, which understood the depth and importance of this concern, and, above all, the Minister of Finance, Keit Pentus-Rosimmann, who worked through the night hours to resolve it with Minister of Economic Affairs, Taavi Asa. The only thing we did not get was to send the Commission's proposals in time and correctly, so we must therefore support the EERE proposal in our joint creation. But it's not bad enough for a good thing, we're all ready for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U418	Reply, Aivar... Or not... Sorry, yeah, line, I get it. Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U419	Kristen, you just got the wrong idea, or I was making a bad impression. No, I think that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications and the Minister for Finance also felt that the opposition strongly supported a 50% reduction in the water fare and also sought a solution in order to do so. I know that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications has also been in the previous government and has supported these proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U420	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U421	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good waitress! I am pleased to hear that [the proposal was supported, because] there are not many of our proposals that go through as suggestions for improvement. And it's like I want to talk more about it. We discussed the reduction of excise duty here before and our proposal was not accepted. But at this point, I am very pleased that [this proposal] is accepted. Although I didn't want to raise our party's tail here. In the case of maritime affairs, I have not dealt quite with these problems in the Committee on Economic Affairs or in the Committee on Monetary Affairs at the moment. Above all, if you recall, the ships under the flag of Estonia [by bringing], the fights that have taken place here for a long time. At first it seemed that it was not possible to break this backbone, but in the end we did it, and the hope that 300 ships, or even more, would come under the Estonian flag is open at any rate. And if every ship of cargo ships is currently under Estonian flag, it could bring up to a quarter of a million tax money into the state budget, with which the government tried to be a little stunted by this 25% reduction offer. So these things are closely linked. On the one hand, the so-called restoration of Estonia as a maritime state, a real maritime state. The coastline is nearly 4,000 kilometers long, but there were hardly any merchant ships in the meantime. It's gonna be now, and there's probably gonna be a lot more of them. And the other side is the same: the one that attracts the ports we have, the same water road charge. Well, a tanker, depending on its size, probably 20,000 and a large passenger ship of 12,000. So now that the Riigikogu has reached this point, sincere respect for colleagues from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs for their struggles that they have managed to put the government's senses in its head. This is particularly in the interests of our business, shipping business, which is also reflected from real travellers who travel from Tallinn, for example, to Helsinki and elsewhere. So, in any case, great news here at night. Usually there's not that much good news. So good luck and thank you all!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U422	No more words, I'll close the negotiations. Amendments to the draft have also been tabled, namely two. The first amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia and the Steering Committee has disregarded it. Erkki Keldo.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U423	I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U424	All right, let's go to the [preparation] vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 1, tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, which has not been taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U425	The proposal is supported by 72 members of the Riigikogu, against 1, and the proposal is not impartial. We come to the second amendment. It has been presented by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the commission has taken full account of it, which we have completed... Excuse me, Erkki Keldo!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U426	Thank you. I would also like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U427	Sure. Is that what I'm gonna do? Looks like no one's calling for a call, we can go to the vote right now. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 2, which has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and has been fully taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U428	The proposal was supported by two delegates, 68 against and no abstentions. This proposal was not supported. The amendments have now been examined. The commission has proposed that the second reading of draft 455 be terminated and that the second reading be completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U429	We can go to the 18th item today. To this end, the draft law amending the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure, Traffic Act and Tax Administration Act 457 has been initiated by the Government of the Republic. This is a second reading and I call on Mr Sulev Kannimäe, Member of the Legal Affairs Committee, as rapporteur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U430	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, Before you is the draft law amending the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure, Traffic Act and Tax Administration Act 457 initiated by the Government of the Republic. The law is at second reading, the first reading in the Riigikogu Hall was on 20 October, including. The [date] of the amendments was 3 November. Amendments to the draft law were tabled, initially six. Amendment 1 came from the Ministry and concerned the sending of a fine notice by registered letter. [Proposal was] to move the sending time further, as it is now three days. If the electronic notification is not answered within three days, a registered letter will be sent out, which is quite expensive for fun, given that the basic amount of fines measured by speed cameras is somewhere between three and nine euros, while sending a registered letter will be four euros. The Governing Commission took full account of this proposal. Proposal 2 came from the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The commission didn't take it into account. The proposal was supported by three members, five against and one abstention from the Commission. There were quite a few questions. The Old Town Society, who was also at the foundation of the draft law, was invited from the parties, then was the representative of the town-municipal union and the representative of the municipal police of Tallinn. They made three proposals that were quite similar to those of 4, 5 and 6 and which were unanimously decided not to be initiated. On 22 November, Monday, the issue was discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs. And the point that was discussed was to bring the fine part forward, as the law does, because the whole part should only enter into force later. Amendment 4, which was unanimously incorporated, should enter into force in the general procedure. The following procedural decisions were taken: to propose a draft to be placed on the plenary agenda 24.11.2021, consensually, to propose that the second reading be closed, consensually. When the second reading is closed, propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda and the final vote be taken on 8 December 2021, consensually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U431	Thank you very much. Questions too. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U432	Thank you. I have a very specific question about the cost of this matter. How much is one camera? How much does it cost to install it? How much does it cost to connect it to the cables, digging it? And what's the estimated cost of maintenance of cameras in one month?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U433	The Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of the Interior said that the cost of the cameras is somewhere, depending on whether there is a stationary camera or a moving camera, the costs are practically equal, the moving camera also comes with more human work force around There's a camera. The cost was somewhere, in a month or a year, 12,500, I think.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U434	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U435	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I did not understand the competence of the local government people [question]. I asked the minister for several rounds and he said that, oh-oh, it's okay, it's just gonna be the traffic surveillance specialists and do it. And now later, when we listened to a representative of the ministry, it was [cleared that] no, all this [thing] goes to the local government. Different information. My concern is that local authorities do not have these specialists. Who's training them? Is it like it's on apples? You're gonna get the fine money. Did you understand that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U436	That's how I figured it out. The people who install these cameras can be ordered by the municipality. In short, they manage or repair or maintain them. Snow pushing is one thing, but the technical side is definitely [something] for which no municipality has a specialist. You can order maintenance.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U437	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U438	Thank you. If such a draft is made, there is certainly a need for this draft. Can you tell me if there was a discussion in the Commission about the number of municipalities that have approached the government to come up with such a bill? Who wants to set up these speed cameras on the territory of their municipality?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U439	I cannot answer that question because I could not hear a single sentence in the Commission, which would say how many municipalities there are who want to do it. But I imagine it's still more of a big city problem. They already exist in Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U440	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U441	Thank you! Obviously, yes, we have all received such things from the various answers of these officials that we do not understand exactly what we are dealing with ourselves today, because I had in mind the competence for traffic supervision. That if there wasn't one in the local government, one [thing] is the installation and maintenance of the camera, right, but the camera installer doesn't put it in one place or another. Did you hit who owns this competence in the local government?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U442	The camera cannot be installed by the municipality without coordination with the Police and Border Guard Board and the Road Administration. The places where they are placed must be coordinated. These places must certainly be recognised as dangerous to traffic in advance, additional measures must be adopted before, either to reduce speed there, or other obstacles. Only then can the camera be placed, and this is done in cooperation with the Road Administration.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U443	Ladies and gentlemen, Scary buzzing's in this hall. We're not very many, but the buzzing is ugly. Let's try to let the performer overspouse. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U444	Thank you! Honourable waitress! I understand that the efficiency of these speed meters is quite high on the Tartu highway and perhaps also in Tallinn, and this is a good amount of money for the local government. But Estonia is not only Tallinn. And I don't think we can compare the number of violations of the Tartu road with the local roads, for example, where the traffic density is quite different. Which actually means that the same draft also provides for the fact that if the municipality does not meet any requirements or if the municipality does not do something as it should, this will be closed. Question: who will bear the costs?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U445	I think it is still here that, first of all, this bill or, when the law is passed, the law does not impose an obligation on the municipality to install these cameras. This is one option for municipalities, it is not an obligation. If the municipality accepts this commitment, discussed in advance, of course, I believe it has also taken into account that it is holding these cameras up there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U446	Thank you very much. There are no more questions, we can go to the negotiations. Tarmo Kruusimäe has expressed its wish for negotiations. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U447	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good coworkers! And, of course, the people that you're looking at and then you're reading about the verbatim we've got! Let me remind you, it's curry day, and we're really curious when the cadristans are coming here. But there's that disease thing again, and how do we know who's under that mask? Leo or Lea. But now to the bill. My role at this point is to do what the chairman of the committee cannot do in this Chamber. We had a lot of good ideas that somehow we didn't get the support of the Ministry. We asked when we could get to these things now, so the Ministry announced that yes, it's also in the protocol, right, in three years' time. That's the law we did for three years, then it'll be three years. I thought we had the law again in 2023, but a good colleague, Urve Tiidus, said that it is now 2021, so in 2024 we would get a new law. But what were the problems that the Ministry didn't want to take on? One is the abuse of bus lanes. That's a pretty big problem. In the meantime, there was a slight thought that maybe these rights should be reduced. Well, send those electric cars back at all, because soon it'll all be electric cars. It doesn't meet our green target at all, which is that everyone gets electrocuted. We didn't get that. Another major problem that could have been said now is that it is not at all difficult to put an alcolock on all rental cars. Perfectly normal. Then we shouldn't be reading about how rental cars are driven in the opposite direction, trying to climb a tree, whatever. A very simple change in itself. It was also extremely strange, in fact, when we talked about a situation where parking tickets are no longer effective. For people coming to Tallinn Old Town and in parks, it is more advantageous to get a parking ticket, which is 20 euros, than to pay for parking, and this is actually quite a problem for the residents of the Old Town. Another, well, big or small problem is the old town entrance. Yes, we know that there are different taxi companies, there are different drivers and others who are not affected by these signs at all. But there is also this taxi company that serves us, and in the old town they have many hotels that need to be served. It was thought that a little walk in the old town wouldn't hurt. No harm, but we should perhaps make it clear that the city of Tallinn is not a friendly city for the elderly, who suffer from walking difficulties and [who] come with large suitcases. What is more: a person who has a disability to move away from Tallinn because it is thought that it would actually be useful for you to walk along the Old Town like this. Of course, there were other things that could have been, let's say, changed in this very bill, as well as everything that concerns traffic cameras. It is a terrible shame to expect that if there are good initiatives and we do not get this alcollut on top of it, and there will be a fatal ending, then as members of our Committee on Legal Affairs, we know that we had it in our hands, because we usually have the Economic Commission dealing with all the drafts relating to traffic. So rarely do these traffic laws come to us, our committee, so that we don't want to give it away. That's why the Fatherland has offered to cancel the second reading. I think we will get these amendments again, and we will find a good opportunity in the Commission to fill out these problematic areas as well, not to wait for the Ministry to come up with a new draft in three years' time. This bill is in front of us, so everyone who cares about people and wants to improve the traffic culture, support the cut-off proposal! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U448	Thank you. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U449	Can I have two more minutes just in case?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U450	Two minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U451	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, We are currently dealing with 457 SEs here: the law amending the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure, the Traffic Act and the Tax Administration Act. I can say that this bill has been born again somewhere in office silence, where basically it has come out with good thoughts, but without knowing the real life. This Act provides for the participation of the municipality or city government in the exercise of the task of traffic supervision, which entitles the municipality, both the municipality and the municipality, to exercise the right to exercise traffic supervision. To this end, it will be put into the territory of the local government by a system of traffic supervision. Basically, the right place, where there is a dangerous place, must be put. I don't disagree at all. But the implementation of this system is, in my opinion, currently incomplete, because if the installation of such a system could be an option in some local authorities with extremely high traffic density But I can't imagine [it] well [in the smallest place]. We'll take Järvamaa. We certainly have traffic sites that are dangerous, where there may be a problem with speeding, which endangers the lives of other road users and local residents in this particular place. But the problem is that this traffic density is so low there that there is essentially no point in making it there. As we have just heard here from the esteemed main rapporteur, the performer, that one camera with the installation costs 60,000. This is a significant amount that goes out of the local government's pocket. And the expected income, that 50%, obviously doesn't pay out, because besides the installation, there are monthly and even daily maintenance costs, where you have to drive out, see if the system works, if anyone has ruined it. This is a process which, from the Commission's point of view, is certainly not justified by EUR 12000. This system must be maintained on a daily basis. The second question is that the draft stipulates that the use of cameras may be cancelled under certain conditions. If the city fails or the city is not fit to do so, the Police and Border Guard Board may cease to implement this system. That's the question, what's next for those cameras? I don't know. Purchased and left to the local government. I believe that there are also analytically-thinking people in local governments who are discussing this issue, and I do not, for some reason, believe that it will receive much support outside the'major cities'. In addition, there is another very serious deficiency here. In particular, there is a question of § 154 of the Constitution, which regulates the activities of the local government. The Constitution states that the local government may be obliged only by law or by agreement with the local government. And now we're in a position to establish a law. However, the same § 154 states that the costs of the state obligation imposed by law on the local government are covered by the state budget. Perhaps we are in a situation where, according to the constitution, the local government cannot and must not finance it, it must be done from the state budget. Obviously, you didn't discuss this issue, for some reason I think so. There's a contradiction of this law with the Constitution right now, because as far as I read, these things are still being bought out, aren't they? There is a contradiction with the Constitution, this law cannot be dealt with, at least not in this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U452	Thank you. I don't see any more calls, I'm closing the negotiations. We now need to revise the amendments. Amendment 1, tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment 2, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U453	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President-in-Office. I would like to put this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U454	Sure. Let's do a hall call and then we'll hitchhike. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 2, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, and the Steering Committee has disregarded this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U455	There are 22 delegates in favour of the proposal, 45 against the proposal and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 3 Oh, how tall. Its author is the Committee on Legal Affairs, and the commission has taken full account of it. Amendment 4. It is also proposed by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the commission has taken full account of it. We have examined all the amendments. The commission has proposed that the second reading of draft 457 be stopped, but the Isamaa Group has proposed that the second reading of draft 457 be discontinued and we must vote on it. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal by the Isamaa Group to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure, the Traffic Act and the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U456	The proposal is supported by 25 delegates, with 49 against. The proposal was not supported. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U457	We can move on to agenda item 19. The 19th item is the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic 458. This is a second reading and the rapporteur is Aivar Kokk, Vice-President of the Monetary Commission. Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U458	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity at its meeting on 15 November. No amendments were tabled in the Riigikogu by the deadline of 3 November. The Committee on Monetary Affairs addressed 19 interest groups and market participants, one of which submitted a proposal to complete the draft. The Committee on Finance discussed the draft on 15 November. In cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, the Commission made a consensual amendment to the draft proposal, which is a proposed amendment to the entry into force clause. The Commission unanimously took the following decisions: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 24 November when the second reading is closed, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda and that the final vote be taken on 8 December. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U459	Questions too. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U460	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I read that tobacco liquids should be allowed to be sold again from 1 January 2023. Can you tell me exactly what the problem was to tell people?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U461	Maybe you'll specify the question. What exactly are you asking?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U462	Sale of e-liquids. So, where is he...? This is § 8518: "The sale of unmarked tobacco liquids in free circulation in Estonia outside the excise warehouse before 1 January 2023 is permitted until 31 January 2023. " Are they loaded with excise duty or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U463	The excise is loaded exactly so... At this point, as you know, they're exempt from excise duty. You remember the date it was done. Exactly until the date we passed last year's law here, there will be excise duty exemptions for exactly that long.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U464	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U465	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Good Aivar! I have to say, I don't have anything to ask you about Bill 458. But since you're on the remote here at home, I'm watching today's sitting and listening, and on several occasions you've spoken like the chairman of the committee and stood up for the committee, I'm just asking you how you are in the committee. Aivar, you haven't been elected chairman yet, have you? Or when are you going to re-select it? Who's in charge of the Commission right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U466	Thank you. No, I'm the vice-president of the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U467	The Commission has just chosen a new leader this week.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U468	Yeah, Tuesday.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U469	No further questions. Thank you very much. We can open negotiations if that's what we want. Take a finger, no wish. We will close the negotiations and we will be able to look at the amendments. The amendments are that exactly one of them is produced by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the commission has taken full account of them. Looks like no one wants to vote on it. We have examined the amendments. The commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading of draft 458 and the second reading is to be completed. This concerns the 19th item.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U470	The 20th item today is the second reading of the draft law amending the Pensions Act, the Tax Administration Act and the Income Tax Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and again I would like to ask Aivar Koka, Vice-Chairman of the Monetary Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U471	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, On 15 November, the Finance Committee discussed the preparation of a draft law amending the Savings Pensions Act, the Tax Administration Act and the Income Tax Act for a second reading initiated by the Government of the Republic. The first reading of the draft was closed on 27 October and the deadline for tabling amendments, with no amendments tabled by 10 November. The opinion on the draft was sought from the Law Enforcement and Bankruptcy Administrators Koja, AS Pension Centre and non-profit organizations Eesti Pank Association, FinanceEstonia, Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Estonian Employers' Confederation and the Estonian Taxpayers' Association. No proposals for changes to the draft were received from stakeholders. The Commission took the following consensual decisions: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 24 November, to propose that the second reading be closed and, when the second reading is closed, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda and the final vote be held on 8 December. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U472	Now we can ask questions. But they don't ask. Thank you, Aivar! This draft... Oh, sorry, let's open the negotiations first. There is no wish for negotiations, I will close the negotiations. No amendments were tabled to this draft and the lead committee has proposed that the second reading of draft 468 be terminated. The second reading is closed and the 20th item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U473	The 21st item is the second reading of Bill 469 of Amendment to the Income Tax Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Aivar Kokk, Vice-Chairman of the Monetary Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U474	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, On 16 November, the Finance Committee discussed the preparation for second reading of the draft law amending the Income Tax Act 469. The purpose of the draft is to exempt persons of pensionable age from income tax at the level of the average old-age pension in such a way that, instead of the general exemption, the old-age pension age receives tax-free income up to the average old-age pension, regardless of the amount of its income. The draft also provides for the exemption of compulsory and supplementary funded pension payments from income tax for persons who have been assigned a lack of working capacity before their retirement age. Three amendments were tabled by the deadline of 10 November. The Committee on Finance also addressed five market participants and interest groups, but there were no comments from them. The amendments were examined by the Committee on Finance at its meeting on 16 November. One proposal was from the Social Democratic Party and two were from the Fatherland Party. The coalition's votes did not support these proposals. The Commission proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 24 November, that the second reading be closed, and that when the second reading is closed, that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda and the final vote be taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U475	Thank you. Now it's time for questions. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U476	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I am asking about the implementation of this law. The Fatherland Party has proposed that it should be implemented as early as 1 January 2022, and we also know that, in essence, the state's financial capacity would allow it. Were there any substantive reasons why the Commission or the coalition did not agree with this? Why do we not recommend that this good draft be implemented a year earlier, but that it be pushed to somewhere in 2023 and that this pensioner's money will simply be left to stand? What were the reasons?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U477	Thank you, Heiki! The justifications are, as has been the last two years, that if we have wanted to exempt an average pension from income tax, it has always been found that the Ministry of Social Affairs has not been able to do such IT solutions, and now the same message is that it will take another year before the IT solution is such that the average pension can be exempted from income tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U478	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U479	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! Could it actually simply be interpreted as meaning that if, for example, we had an election every year, these IT solutions would be completed over the year? But since the elections are held once in four years, before the elections in the intervening times, it is like there is no point in making a great effort and it would be good to show that there was some very excellent thing that had been cut off for the elections. At the same time, the money of pensioners is literally being abused, which they could use to cover the increase in the cost of living, even very high. Is it that holding elections too rarely is the reason why information systems are not being completed in time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U480	Thank you. Heiki, as a representative of the Commission, I cannot express my personal opinion and I must say that it was not discussed as such in the Commission. We did, however, stress in the Commission that making the second pension pillar optional would allow this tax exemption to be granted from 1 January next year, because this amount is somewhere in the order of more than two and a half hundred million coming into the budget, has been received and is coming into the budget. However, it is always possible to justify that, since the budget summary is negative, not positive, all the revenue generated will be borne by the expenditure. But I stress once again that I am here on behalf of the Commission as a defender of this bill, not as a personal voice.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U481	Thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U482	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I spoke here at first reading as a rapporteur for the group and there is no need to repeat it, which was said at the time, but perhaps a few moments about its implementation. Let us remember: after all, this whole story started in 2016; I remember that I worked here in the previous composition, too, when in late autumn this regressive tax-free system was pushed through. But it didn't start to be implemented from next year either. It was still a year and more for the preparatory work. These sums, then allocated to the Tax and Customs Board to develop IT systems in order to implement this complex system, were worth more money than now 1.6 million. So it will also take time to reverse this system for the exemption of older people. There's procurement, preparation, IT work. The 1.6 million that the Tax and Customs Board alone is spending on it still shows a considerable amount of this work. But already at the time, 2016, I remember, the Reform Party Group opposed this regressive system, because it made the tax system difficult and unfair, and this tax hump already ate a large part of the wage increase, in particular, of the people receiving the average salary. And, of course, this 2016 reform has forgotten or disappeared, but it has not been forgotten, in fact, abolished the previous additional income tax exemption for pensions, and if comparisons were made at the time, who wins and loses with the new system, then the biggest losers were working pensioners who lost more than ordinary workers. In the current environment, where the keywords that do not exist are inflation, money printing, wage pressure, wage growth, price growth, which in turn has been affected by the indexation of pensions, a fixed tax-free income of EUR 500, which starts to decrease from an income of EUR 1200, no such a fixed system does not fit into an inflationary environment, especially in our circumstances where wage pressures and people's incomes are growing and money prints and commodity price increases are raising prices. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U483	Sure. Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U484	At that time, the average pension was around 400 euros, but already this year it has risen more than 550 euros. The increase will continue next year and in 2023 the average pension will be 654 euros. Now, if I do my math right, the tax on income will be EUR 30.8. Perhaps income tax eats up much of the annual pension increase. In fact, this has been the case for some time. The Reform Party Group will certainly support the adoption of this draft as a law, the completion of second reading. A very large number of pensioners, older people, both those who retire at home and those who work will benefit from this system. But, of course, this bill does not solve all the problems given birth by a progressive tax-free system. This is only the first step, I hope. We take the current situation where this fixed limit of EUR 1200 per month, from which this tax hump begins and tax-free income is sharply reduced as income increases, to this range not only have the wealthier people moved their incomes, but also the people in a more modest position on the pay scale, including teachers, rescue workers, police workers and cultural people, to whom we are looking for money from the state budget for the next year's salary increase. The same progressive system of tax-free income, we put on pay, but this tax system eats up more and more when these revenues are between 1200 and 2100 euros per month. So this bill doesn't solve all the problems of this regressive tax-free income, but the important progress is an important win for the elderly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U485	Thank you very much. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U486	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, We still have to talk the way it really is. The fatherland has always stood for people with lower incomes and when it was decided in 2016 that EUR 500 was exempt from income tax, the average pension was well below EUR 400. Yeah, it's like it's gotten in the way today, and no one can argue about it. I have to admit that, during the previous government period, there was an average pension exemption from income tax on the table for each budget, both budgets, and each time the answer was one and the same, it would take another year to make an IT solution. Of course, one year's compromise was that some tens of euros of pensions were exceptionally raised exactly as planned in a year's time, before the Riigikogu elections during this government, to raise 20 euros of pensions exceptionally. But all this can only be done on one condition. If the second pension pillar had not been made optional during the previous government as the main promise of elections to the Parliament of the Fatherland Party, there would be no money to talk about income tax exemption or extraordinary pension increases. This money actually came from this. What hurts the most is that, for years, our pensioners took money away, 4% of the social tax, 20% was the money that went somewhere else, where nothing really grew. I am happy to look at the pension pillar now, as the money from the second pension pillar has gained almost the same amount of money in one year after becoming a volunteer, as it has been in 10 to 15 years before it. At least there's an effect. And the other way around is that since there are 300 million additional funds in the state budget due to the voluntaryisation of the second pension pillar, it is possible to do these things. The sad thing is, these things are done a year later. If this money has been received today, we will be honest with our elderly and let's do it now. Why are we doing this in a year? The story of not being able to do an IT solution. I have a good offer, just as a good colleague here, a moment ago, said that this 1200 euros has also been lost, so let's do this income tax exemption for everyone in the same way, with an average pension for those who work. Then there is no question in the IT solution, it does not cost much, it does not need to put 1.6 million in, but it costs a few tens of thousands, not more. And we'd be at peace in no time. Next year would be happy people with lower wages and would be happy pensioners. After all, all things can be done quickly and decisively, there is no need to stall. I must, of course, thank the Reform Party on the one hand, for putting it on the table because, last time in government, the Fatherland kept it on the table, but unfortunately, we did not receive support from the Centre Party. It was more important for them to make an extraordinary pension increase of EUR 15 instead of doing something else. That's usually the way it is. There are still different players in the coalition who are trying to make agreements and solutions. In this Chamber, we try as hard as possible, and I believe that in the government, most ministers are still in good faith, go there and try to do the best they can. Well, there are always disputes and fights that are better or worse during budget discussions. This is about regional investment and it is said that there is nothing. Aivar, yesterday we saw how regional investments had been put in advance, half a million split in half, two 250,000 objects were created. Well, what is it? It's actually the same rooftop money. The only thing that's ever shared these millions before. The members of the Riigikogu then have 30,000, about which the press asks from morning to evening why there is no place else. In fact, large sums of money, tens of millions have long been set before where they actually go. I do not blame today's coalition for this, so they have happened during all coalitions. Then we're talking, at this point, a little over 90%...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U487	Aivar, do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U488	Well, let's do it just in case, yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U489	How much?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U490	Well, three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U491	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U492	But now we are still coming to the same thing that I am pleased that we have one social minister in the Chamber and is concerned about the social issues of the elderly, of all people with disabilities and special needs. So maybe they're still going to the government, because today we've seen with two drafts that if the opposition really really explains and makes wood and paints red and orders economic research and financial research, it's incredible, but it's almost in agreement. If, for example, the Committee on Economic Affairs did not agree on Monday, then on Tuesday after that, the Committee on Monetary Affairs made its decisions, and today it was already accepted and history was certainly made in this Chamber when the representative of the coalition asks for opposition proposals to be put to the vote, which the Commission did not support, and then we will all support it together, that is quite a good thing. By going on this path and by working together and linking good ideas, I think we can do a lot of good for the people of Estonia. Nobody should ever be upset if they defend some drafts here and the members of the Riigikogu may be a little more critical and try to offer their own things. Believe me, we have people in different areas in the Chamber and in certain areas they are certainly more competent than maybe ministries officials who have not come from the private sector or have not been in this area for very long. We always have this concern that the number of people in the public sector is increasing, and nothing else. But once again: I think we're on the right track, but try to get there, so maybe you can take a break while you're reading this second reading and still put it into practice, so that it's 1 January next year, not 2 years from 1 January. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U493	Thank you very much. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U494	Thank you, President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, the reform of the second pillar of pensions has created the possibility of increasing pensions and also increasing the income tax exemption so that at least the average pension is exempt from income tax. The good previous speaker, Aivar Kokka, I am thinking, here we cannot restrict ourselves to the first name, and the last name must also be mentioned very rightly, that at that time, in 2016, the average pension tax exemption was proudly covered, and, in fact, we are honest, also those pensioners who received a higher-than-average pension, won. Time has passed, of course. The cost of living has done its job. A little like crocodile tears when you say you see EUR 30.8 as a tax on income, which will eat up the average pension growth in the new year. Yes, that is the problem, and that is why the law should actually be implemented not in 2023, but in 2022. Do not deprive pensioners of their earned pensions for a whole year yet and think about how to pay very steeply increased energy bills so that they do not have to sit in a dark room and, figuratively speaking, use cold water instead of hot water. Perhaps some coalition politicians here find that it would be very good for saving health care costs, because it toughens pensioners, so let them use a little colder water. It's kind of a demagogic move. However, ladies and gentlemen of the Reform Party, I understand and I congratulate you on the fact that you have managed to break the Centre Party in some ways, because they have been unable to get this information system to work for many years. I couldn't do it in any way. Of course, I understand that it would be right for such a minister to resign rather than be able to move forward at all. It's true. But let's put our backs together and do it together already in 2022. Then let them try again in 2023 and realize their plans. We actually have those voices, and let's not leave it in the next year. Our pensioners deserve more, I am absolutely convinced of it, and I am pleased that the Reform Party has also found the lever to move it. But I'd like to come to another point. The Fatherland Party has proposed another amendment which, unfortunately, has been disregarded, but should also be discussed and accounted for. I will read out how it has been presented, and then perhaps we will also find places to take account of the improvements that we have tabled. In particular, the Pro Patria Party wants the tax-free income of a natural person to also apply to persons unlawfully repressed and persons treated as repressed within the meaning of the Act on persons repressed by occupation regimes. The purpose of this amendment is to grant, in addition to a natural person resident in a Contracting State who has reached the age of retirement age, income tax exemption similar to that provided for by the tax exemption, to persons who have been unlawfully repressed and treated as repressed persons. This point would also deserve consideration and it is a pity that the coalition has not supported it. Those people who have suffered under the occupation regime deserve a little more attention than maybe some people may initially feel in this Chamber. So let's put our backs together! A few more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U495	Two minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U496	Let's get our backs together! I think the Soviets agree, the EKRE agrees, the Reform Party agrees. This is well over half the number of members of the Riigikogu. So let's make this change, let's not wait for the elections. Otherwise, we can do something once in four years, because there's no reason to do anything before that. I think we all understand that this is bullshit, and you wouldn't really need that kind of act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U497	Thank you. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U498	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, Like Isamaa, the Social Democratic Party has actually tabled an amendment to the draft, which is excellent, fits within the budget and to which I look forward. But I'll start at a distance. The Development Monitoring Centre published a really good analysis of possible scenarios and visions for the future of the tax system over a long period of time last week. I would point out from there that, if you look at European trends in taxation, the one that clearly appears is that there is support for employment and a more equal distribution of income, i.e. the tax burden on the servants of lower incomes will be lowered, and the tax-free minimum and the increase in personal income tax will be used. Given the high income inequality in Estonia, we have a high proportion of people living in relative poverty and, in fact, we want to support working rather than living out of benefits, it is that a person who also carries out work paid with a minimum wage could use this money to ensure his or her livelihood and should not pay income tax on it. That makes perfect sense. The point of the latest income tax reform was that the income tax-free minimum will be a step forward with the minimum wage. To date, the income tax-free minimum is well behind the minimum wage, and we can correct this mistake here today. So the current draft still means that all people over 65, including wealthy pensioners, can benefit from the exemption regardless of their income. But, for example, a kindergarten teacher doesn't get or a seller working on a minimum wage doesn't benefit from an increase in the income tax-free minimum. The Social Democrats have tabled an amendment, Amendment 1, which is to be voted on today so that the minimum tax-free amount of EUR 654 per month instead of EUR 500 per month is equal to the minimum wage. This would apply to everyone, as is currently the case with income levels. If, as a rule, the amendments, especially those concerning taxation, are concerned about how it fits within the framework of our budget, from which we take this money to cover this change, it is now the case that raising the tax-free minimum to a minimum wage for all is cheaper than imposing it on all persons over 65, regardless of their income. So we can have peace of mind, all the ambassadors can vote in favour of this amendment, without fearing that it will have a negative impact on the budgetary balance. On the contrary, it has a positive effect. So even the representatives of the Reform Party who are concerned about improving the budgetary balance, in fact by supporting the Socialist amendment, can improve the budgetary balance. This is less budgetary than the solution we have in the draft. So I'm asking for your support! We will reduce income inequality and we will be able to implement this amendment within the framework of the current budgetary strategy. There's no need for change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U499	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U500	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Couple of remarks. First of all, the good thing about this bill is too. In addition to the fact that pensioners receive more tax-free income, this change, which is planned, is not linked to the status of an old-age pensioner, but relates to age. This, in turn, is linked to one important change, which the Riigikogu, with my little help in its time, has legalised that we have a flexible retirement age, so that we could actually gradually move towards the fact that age and pensioner status are not rigidly linked. We allow and the system is designed in such a way that people are also able to use their pensioner status more flexibly, based on their personal choices and opportunities to work. And the fact that we are now not rigidly linking this particular additional advantage to pensioner status, but to old-age age is certainly, I dare say, a dramatic change in legislation in the longer term, and we certainly hope that, in the case of other benefits for different pensioners, we will gradually move in that direction, that they are not directly related to this status. A more critical note is based on a slightly longer view of the matter. We know that tax-free income is an exceptionally good tax policy step towards achieving a number of social objectives. Riina was already talking about reducing income inequality. It is also actually a question of reducing unemployment traps, i.e. increasing the motivation of people to work at the lower end of their income. To this end, increasing tax-free income is very important. At one point in the past decade, all these changes have really not been found to have sufficient political will and budgetary resources to raise the overall tax-free income quickly enough. Then there was an additional tax exemption for pensioners. Perhaps this was no longer granted to all employees who pay income tax but only to one particular group. It's a perfectly legitimate focus, isn't it? For older people, for example, the relative poverty rate is very high, so in this sense we do not have a debate, but it would be right, of course, to raise the tax-free minimum for everyone. This could not be done, so this general exemption from income tax started to rise by five euros, I am talking about the first years of my political career ten years ago, and pensioners moved on with much bigger steps along with an average pension. We managed to fundamentally change this system in 2018, when we raised the tax-free minimum to EUR 500, or the minimum wage, and we raised it to everyone. Yes, there were organizational difficulties, there were some unthinkable moments where some specific groups of people were in worse shape as a result of this change, and that was bad. It had to be fixed, and in that sense everything is very right. But we actually got back to a fair and logical system in that sense that we ensure that the minimum wage is exempt from income tax. In fact, the minimum wage in the Republic of Estonia today is the level on which it is simply not right to take income tax. It's such a low income that it's just not right to take tax on it. 2018 we were able to get there. These debates, which have been here, are that whether it should shrink at one point and so on, whether it is organizationally simple or complicated, we have been held and the views are understandable here. I think everyone has one vision that this is not the perfect system. I'd like three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U501	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U502	But we got to that level. At that time, I had the hope that we would be able to maintain this level of income, that, along with the rise in the minimum wage, we would each raise the tax-free minimum for all • that older people would receive their average pension exempt from income tax and also employees [their own salary]. Because older people, yes, indeed, have a very high rate of relative poverty, but they have one plus compared to low-income workers, for example, if they do not necessarily pay each month. They may remain unemployed at all; there are many single parents, for example, and in some ways social coping is much more difficult than for older people, for whom at least this assurance is that a pension will be paid on a specific date each month. But what happened in the years that followed? In fact, and this is already the mistake of the previous government, it was not managed to keep this pace. In fact, this tax-free minimum was abandoned. The minimum wage rose, and now next year will rise especially much compared to that time. And we are actually sending a message that yes, we are willing to make an effort, to find a solution for the elderly, but for all the other workers, we are going back to this old system, that their tax-free minimum will rise next time the government finds an appropriate increase. But in the case of the elderly, we are trying to maintain this level so that the average pension is tax-free. In my opinion, this good initiative has a very negative side message in the bigger picture that we are losing this principle. Working people whose wages are low, let them see how they can handle it, but in the case of a certain group, we'll let in the difference. And if we let this distinction in by now, it will emerge naturally, like colleagues from the Fatherland Group, to put in another group, who are also people who, for one reason or another, deserve special treatment. But why just the people they're highlighting? There are still a large number of groups in society to which a separate additional tax-free minimum could be introduced. I don't think that's really right. It would be right to say that our country's tax system is structured in such a way that we never charge income tax on a minimum wage. The minimum wage will rise and the state will find the necessary resources to raise the income tax-free minimum, regardless of whether the person is working or retired, whether he or she is repressed or belonging to another vulnerable group. I am actually very sorry that this principle has not been respected. Its budgetary impact is much less than the change of attitude that we are making with it that we are retreating from the achievement that has been achieved in 2018. And I'm afraid, unfortunately, by looking at the past experience that this thing is going to have some pretty long-term effects, even in ten years' time, we're going to talk about having one income tax-free minimum for one group and another group. It is therefore reasonable to support Amendment 1 by the Socialists in order to prevent this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U503	I don't see any more words. I will close the negotiations and go to the amendments. The first amendment is tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, as we have just heard. The Governing Commission has disregarded this. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U504	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I would certainly ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U505	Here's what we're gonna do. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 1, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been neglected by the commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U506	The proposal was supported by 18 delegates, 50 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not accepted. Amendment 2, tabled by the Isamaa Group, has been rejected by the commission. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U507	Thank you. I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U508	We will vote on this amendment. Can we go without a call sign? Got it. I shall put to the vote Amendment 2, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, which has been disregarded by the commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U509	This amendment was supported by 12 delegates, 50 against and 2 abstentions. The amendment was not supported. The third amendment, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and the Steering Committee, has been rejected. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U510	Thank you. I also ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U511	Can we vote now? Got it. I shall put to the vote Amendment 3, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. Please ask the ambassadors to take a stand and vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U512	The proposal was supported by 15 delegates, with 50 against. The proposal was not supported. We have therefore examined the amendments. The commission has proposed to stop the second reading of draft 469, but we have received the proposal of the Isamaa Group to interrupt the second reading of the draft, and we must vote on it. Can we do this without a call? Yeah. I am voting on the proposal by the Isamaa Group to interrupt the second reading of Bill 469 of the Law amending the Income Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U513	And now it is that 15 delegates supported this proposal, 59 against it and one abstention. The proposal for interruption was not supported. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U514	We can go to the 22nd item today. This is the first reading of the draft Act amending the State Pension Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Signe Riisalo, Minister for Social Protection. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U515	Good manager! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! This introduction to the previous draft was quite appropriate and there is probably no need to explain why a pension increase is necessary. But perhaps just as a reminder, however, that, in relation to the relative poverty rate of older people, which has already been mentioned today, Estonia positioned in a negative third place compared to the countries of the European Union in 2019. The other side of the medal is perhaps the level of social protection expenditure as a whole, including old-age pensions, of GDP, and in that we are once again in a negative fourth position in the European Union. This is the background for which both the Riigikogu and the Riigikogu thank you for this! just as the government is making an effort to increase pensions. We are, of course, talking here today only about the first pillar of the pension. There are relatively few older people living in absolute poverty in Estonia. There are 2.3% of such people or households at all, but if we look at older pensioners, this percentage is less than one. However, relative poverty is what concerns us. For people aged 65 and over, we can see that 41.4% of people live in relative poverty. What is even more worrying is the fact that, when it comes to a single-living retirement age, the percentage of relative poverty is 76.8. These are also, broadly speaking, the great reasons for which we are working together to increase pensions exceptionally. Yes, it can always be said that more and faster, but today I am before you with the draft proposed by the government, in which we propose to raise both the basic part of the pension and the solidarity component. The exceptional increase in the basic pension component and the solidarity pool increases pensions payable under the Act on all old-age pensioners, including preferential retirement pensions, and the Pensions Act for well-deserved years, as well as, of course, the pensions of survivors' pensioners, are increasing this change. This would concern 321000 pension beneficiaries and the impact on relative poverty is estimated to be 1.6 percentage points, as it is projected. The other side is a national pension, which we are talking about here in the same way. There, too, would be an increase of 20 euros. But the rise in the base part means that we have an old-age pension for a 44-year-old of EUR 611 from 1 January 2023, today it is 553. 590 next year, if you just bring it out here. The pension will be raised, as has been said, to 321000 people. This cost in terms of the state budget is EUR 81.1 million and the impact on the state budget is EUR 70.4 million. Perhaps it is also important to say that we index the pension every year under the law, and if we see an impact on the state budget of EUR 71 million in 2023, it is already 10 million higher in 2025 because of indexations, EUR 81 million. Now, we have an increase in the national pension rate of EUR 293 in the event of a planned increase of EUR 20, and the beneficiaries are obviously significantly less than 3200 people. The budgetary impact is also more modest, with only 0.8 million euros and 0.6 million euros in terms of the balance of the state budget. People's pensions are for the purpose of ensuring income for people who have not been required to receive a retirement pension and who have lived in Estonia for at least five years immediately before applying for a pension, i.e. this is the minimum minimum that we, as a society, have decided to grant to all people upon the arrival of old age or retirement age. Perhaps it is still important to mark that, if the pension increase is EUR 611 on January 1, 2023, the pensioner will receive the 44-year old-age pensioner, but by 2025 it will have risen to EUR 724. Here we spoke earlier about this level of relative poverty or the limit. Today, according to the 2019 logic, this limit is 611 and in 2023 673 have been estimated. So, actually, we're reaching that limit, we can't say that our parents are in a state of over-easy. As Estonia still stands out, working for older people is at a very high rate. Working for older people is in itself positive in an ageing society, where the age of working age decreases, but it should not be a compulsion or obligation for anyone, an unavoidable need, but it should also be a person's own desire to contribute to working life as a retirement age. Unfortunately, we do not always have that today, and that is, in turn, worrying. However, to come back once to the draft that was under discussion, certainly those changes concerning the increase in pension income tax [exemption] for pensioners will certainly create more favourable situations in which pensioners have the idea of working in the light of needs and opportunities. But I'm waiting for questions, and I'm probably getting an idea of what these questions might be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U516	Yeah, there are questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U517	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good minister! That's 80 million or a little less, 77. Why do you come out with this just before the forthcoming elections in the Riigikogu? It smells like a carrot. Why didn't you just do it? Today it is also possible to find 78 million or 80 million. It's like it's been more honest.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U518	Thank you for your question. Certainly, as I began, always gets more and always gets faster. However, if we look at the possibilities of the state budget and the sustainable incomes of the state budget, then balanced choices must be made so that our budget is sustainable in the long term. After all, a good member of the Riigikogu from the ranks of the Fatherland here earlier today indicated that, as we know, most agreements are compromises. We are very happy to process two drafts at the same time, with a total budget of nearly 200 million, and it is indeed important that we are able at the same time to do both the average pension tax exemption and the extraordinary increase in pensions. By bringing one of my drafts forward, i.e. the date of entry into force, we would actually take back money from the same pensioners with the other hand.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U519	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U520	Thank you. Dear Minister, You were talking here about the average pension and how the average pension, or more than that, will benefit from this EUR 20. But in fact, a large part of old-age pension is a pension that is much lower than the average pension. For them, it is crucial that this base is raised. My question is, why doesn't it end with what's allowed? After all, the main election promise of the Reform Party was that the Central Party would rise and, let's say, half as much as these three increases will and have been.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U521	Thank you for your question. I would like to remind you for a moment that there are 321000 beneficiaries affected by the increase in the base that is currently being planned. This is a very large part, almost all of our pension beneficiaries, and it also concerns coping... I'm sorry! This also applies to those who are... I'm sorry, I can't say that word right now. One moment... But now this agreement, which was concluded by the coalition agreement between the two political parties at the beginning of this year, spoke of both the increase in the basic part of the pension and the income tax exemption for pensions. In addition, the national pension component has now increased by 20 euros. So I think that the agreement that the coalition partners agreed with each other in winter has been respected.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U522	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U523	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good minister! If you look at this relative level of poverty and the proportion of spending where we are on a red lamp, how have we ever got there? The Reform Party has led the country for quite a long time. We are in the red lantern if we take for example this relative poverty rate in older Estonia [which is] some 40%, but over the bay 10%, in Finland, I mean. 80 kilometers, but like two different worlds. How are we going to be such a red lantern in 30 years?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U524	Thank you for your question. I'm glad you remember history in this sense. While Marju Lauristin was Minister of Social Affairs, I was a fresh official at the Ministry of Social Affairs and I remember those times when we didn't really have the money to pay out pensions in the state budget. I think we have gone a long way, and we have come to a much better situation, which does not mean that we are satisfied with this situation here today and now. Speaking of pensions, the pension system is not just the first pillar we are talking about here today, but the pension system consists of three pillars. In order for pensions to be sustainable in Estonia, it is necessary to look at the impact of the second and third pillars on people's incomes in parallel. I very much hope that the people of Estonia will act prudently and wisely in order to ensure their old age. But the Ministry of Social Affairs, together with the Ministry of Finance, will prepare an analysis of the sustainability of pensions by next autumn, where we will specifically try to analyse the possibilities for Estonia to improve the pension system, including possible changes in the implementation of the third pillar. But surely we must also look more broadly at Estonia's ability to pay sustainable pensions in the future in the context of the ageing and shrinking population. I am not talking about the next or the next year, but I am talking about the ten and 20 years from now. This analysis will also become public next autumn and will serve as a basis for new and subsequent changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U525	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U526	Thank you. Dear Minister, Raising the basic part of the pension will, of course, increase everyone's pensions, whether small or large, but the income tax exemption will not help those who do not work and receive a small pension. In fact, the only way to make them more dignified is to raise the base, because one thing is annual indexation, but the other is to increase the base. This draft explanatory memorandum states that, overall, this is a necessary change to alleviate the poverty of old-age pensioners, but its impact is limited. You have also made several estimates, several calculations, based on the simulation model. My question is: how many retirement pensions do you calculate will come out of relative poverty with this 20-euro pension increase? But if it had been half the size, how much would it have come?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U527	Time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U528	Thank you for your question. As I said before, and I also made comparisons, with the same rate of relative poverty that is actually increasing in time, we are not able to keep up with this plan today either, because by 2023 the relative poverty rate is estimated at EUR 671, but in this same year we see that it is estimated that the amount of the 44-year old-age retirement pension is EUR 654. And, as I said, this bill has a positive impact on relative poverty of 1.6 percentage points. In my head, I cannot say at the moment how many percentage points would be increased by an extraordinary pension increase of EUR 40.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U529	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U530	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, Of course, I also welcome the fact that this base section will increase by EUR 20, but it is not so happy that it will be unduly postponed for a year. I couldn't help but note your claim that economic opportunities do not seem to allow this to happen in 2022. Perhaps you could open up some of the economic opportunities that do not allow, because it is known that this money has been received by the pension fund and is also due to the reform of the second pension pillar. What are the limits why this cannot be done on 1 January 2022?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U531	Thank you for your question. First of all, it is important that all the funds received are also received in the coming years, otherwise it will not be possible to make permanent commitments, that is one side of the case. And the other side, which I also replied to your partymate, is that making such changes is an art of compromise and it is agreed in this coalition to take the same step in parallel with the two amendments. One is the exceptional rise in pensions and the other is the tax exemption. Together, these two drafts are quite costly and fall under 200 million for the combined state budget, which is why it was not possible to do this year. But I have to admit that this year has been a rather difficult process of making a state budget, given the time of COVID and the considerable costs we have made in connection with COVID. Vaccination has been carried out on one side of the country, but even more cost has actually been testing. Similarly, the hospital and healthcare systems have needed substantial additional resources. For the following year, COVID's resources have been planned in exactly the same way. But it is not of little importance that we have been able to improve the pay systems of social workers, teachers, rescuers, police, and I think that this has been a very important choice for the government that was able to do. Now, if I look from my position, i.e. from the position of the Minister for Social Protection, I am extremely sad that the same fourth place, in a negative sense, for GDP's social protection costs, we have the position where we are, because the whole landscape, which is long-term care, has been largely excluded from the budget for next year. Although there are quite a lot of reliefs coming up in the second half of the year in connection with the European Social Fund, despite this, 2015 World Bank advice to Estonia was that 150 million in long-term care is the resource that is needed today, more in the long term. Believe me, all these needs, starting with 45 million general care services, to switch to a component-based system that is much more affordable to this same pensioner, but also to his family members, all these proposals I have made and will continue to do, and I am very hopeful in the next budget negotiation process.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U532	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U533	Thank you. It's the same question. In my opinion, it is extremely embarrassing and strange that the e-state, the Estonian state, is unable to implement and implement the average pension tax exemption faster than two years. IT systems, two years! The Government took office in January 2021 and is able to implement it from 1 January 2023. As far as future expenditure on the state budget is concerned, it does not affect very much whether we are implementing from 2022 or 2023. 2027, 2028, 2029 These burdens on future periods are still the same target group as whether we are discussing a year earlier or later. But please tell me how much will now be collected this year and in 2022 as a result of the pension reform, a social tax that can only be paid for pensions and nothing else, and which you will not pay for pensions in this form. How much is it coming, and what are you going to do with the money?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U534	I will leave this answer unanswered and send these numbers in writing. This is perhaps wider, also in the context of the debate on the state budget, you have already been able to go through the second reading of the state budget here today and you have also seen where these resources are planned and planned. Similarly, I think that the Riigikogu [has made changes] as you have made a number of good proposals today, and I understood that one proposal has gone through, and if these changes are reasonable and possible, then the Riigikogu can decide by majority vote. But I'm going to comment once on this IT solution issue, it's a little bit like it's been flying here as a legend. Firstly, before any other public institution, including the Ministry, is able to start planning, procurement, development and development, all of this is quite time-consuming within the time frame, a political decision is needed. This political decision, I believe, we can conclude in this Riigikogu within this year's number, which concerns both the issue of income tax and now this extraordinary pension increase. Since then, it is actually possible for the authorities to develop all these developments.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U535	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U536	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I will, however, continue where my previous question was left over. You answered for a very long time what you need money for. Indeed, we could also continue from outside your field from here, that money is needed for defence and education, and for many more places. But one of the interesting features of the pension is that the money that comes in cannot be used for national defence, neither for the salaries of teachers nor for anywhere else, and could be used only for the payment of pensions. How do you explain why we don't pay? Well, why don't we apply from 1 July 2022 if it takes a little more time to reconfigure this information system? Here at the debate on the previous point, Aivar Sõerd said that it was as if it had been possible to do them earlier, and now the situation has changed and can no longer be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U537	Thank you for your question. Let us be honest, this extraordinary rise is not so painfully linked to IT developments. This is much easier than raising the tax exemption ceiling. It's a more complicated solution. But the answer has sounded quite a few times: it has been this choice to make two parallel changes together, on one side. And on the other hand, I continue to welcome the fact that this is a budget money that remains on the pension line and cannot be spent anywhere else. This gives Estonian pensioners the assurance that on 1 January 2023 the extraordinary pension increase of 20 euros will reach them, that it will be indexed on 1 April of the same year and that as a result the pension will be 654 euros based on this average calculation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U538	Helir-Valdor Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U539	Thank you. Again and again, I will continue on the same subject. In my opinion, the political decision has been taken on the coalition agreement, and it is written. Do I really understand [right] that the Ministry of Social Affairs has not started and will not prepare the IT system before all these draft laws have been passed and adopted from the Riigikogu, and so far the so-called Italian strike is taking place in the Ministry of Social Affairs, that officials are not going to comply with this political decision and agreement already made and that the Ministry and the Minister do not have the strength to start these preparatory work? Is this really the case, and the entire Estonian pensionerhood is waiting a year and a half behind it for an increase in pension? And secondly, you said that in the state budget procedure in the Riigikogu we should know where these funds are going. I don't know where the money from the Social Fund goes, they can only be used to pay pensions, nothing else. I don't know where they're going.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U540	Thank you for your question. As I said, this IT development of an extraordinary pension increase is not so complicated and it does not require a year and a half. This can be done quickly. In the Ministry of Social Affairs, the people who are involved in IT development are very busy in our area of government because of the various new IT solutions associated with COVID, whether they are COVID evidence or also data collections to analyse the situation. Believe me, we don't have any officials standing by. However, in most cases, the practice is that when a draft is adopted, the cost of the draft together with the cost of IT developments is one of them. Moreover, in the case of IT developments, it is crucial that the legal basis is in place until the last detail, so that it does not change in the course of the work, because it is very difficult to change nuances in the design of IT solutions from half the process. This is certainly one of the prerequisites for obtaining and developing solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U541	Minister, there are no further questions for you. Thank you very much. We now have a presentation by the Social Affairs Committee, and this will be done by Siret Kotka, Chairman of the Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U542	[[Remote connection]] Good chairman of the sitting! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! In the Committee on Social Affairs, the draft law amending the State Pension Insurance Act was discussed on 15 November. Just as before you here today in the Committee on Social Affairs, Minister for Social Protection Signe Riisalo presented the draft in depth. That is why I am not going to go over his story, which he spoke very thoroughly here today, and he has just as thoroughly spoken it in the Committee on Social Affairs. But I want to highlight a few figures. In 2022, the normal indexation of pensions will take place on 1 April and in 2022 pensions are expected to increase by around EUR 38 with the indexation of 1 April, amounting to an old-age pension of EUR 591. With an extraordinary pension increase, which we are dealing with here today, as from 1 January 2023, the basic amount of the pension will rise by EUR 20, which is expected to raise the average retirement pension to EUR 611. And while the normal indexation of pensions takes place on 1 April 2023, it is estimated that from 1 April 2023 the average old-age pension will be approximately EUR 654. Thus, by 1 April 2023, the average pension will rise by around EUR 100 compared to today. The following decisions were taken by the Commission: to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 24 November, or today (consensus), to appoint Siret Kotkat (consensus), to propose that the first reading be closed (same consensus), and the deadline for tabling amendments is 10 working days (consensus). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U543	But before we can get to the questions, it turns out that Mr. Ceder has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U544	Indeed, I have a procedural question. This concerns the previous speaker, who had to tell us how the draft law amending the State Pension Insurance Act was discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs. Instead, he told us that there would be a regular indexation next year, how much the pension would increase and how much the pension would be expected to increase as a result of the regular indexation in 2023. However, this draft does not deal with the regular indexations resulting from the current law. As a member of the Riigikogu, I would still have liked to know what this bill was about, which was presented by the Minister. But we didn't hear anything about that. Propagandist speeches are beautiful though, and they may come in handy between the lines here, but I would still like to know about the content of the draft and the debate. In my opinion, this report was not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U545	Mr. Ceder, I think it would have been exactly the right question to ask the waitress, and I suggest you press the "Word" button right now and then you can ask. But you've already asked two questions, right? Well, that's a bad story, but ask Mr. Hepner to help you out. I mean, it's pretty substantial. We know that we have agreed that the draft rapporteurs will, of course, say what they did in the Commission, but how they will communicate it to us, this is their free chance. Now Mr. Hepner has a procedure. You're out of questions, too, but Mr. Saaremäe, I understand, will help you out.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U546	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, I am out of questions too, but it is still procedural in that sense, that it is still not something that I would like to say, but what was discussed at the committee meeting. This has also been repeatedly emphasised and pointed out in this Chamber, not only by the Fatherland Party, but also the Reform Party has repeatedly done so. If we are also thinking about the time of its composition, you have repeatedly done and you have said that this is not in accordance with the rules of procedure and with the rules of procedure. After all, we have actually heard a story that did not talk about the Commission's work, but about something else.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U547	Yes, I agree with that that, of course, the rapporteur for the Commission must reflect the debate that took place in the Commission. I will give Siret Eagle my word now, but first I will answer Mr Hepner. On the other hand, I also deeply agree that the Commission representative should not read the minutes on this board, because the minutes are available to all of us. Rather, the quintessence that took place in that committee should be passed on. But I understand that now that there is a round of questions, I will give the floor to Mr Saaremäe and Mr Saaremäe can immediately ask Siret Kotka what really happened in the Commission. So please, Mr. Saaremäe!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U548	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Would you enlighten us on this quintessence, which was quite rightly the case during the Commission's debate?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U549	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I did so very briefly and pragmatically, all the things I spoke about earlier, we talked about in the committee meeting. If good members of the Riigikogu bothered to draft this bill, they would see that there is such a table behind this bill. This is a summary of this table that I have read to you, one, two, three, where all these indexations and basic elements are inside, the increases that we discussed in the Commission. In the Commission, we discussed both the increase and indexation of the base and how this will affect the total amount of pensions as a whole. These I just read very correctly to you how they might look like, according to the drafts, they are expected to rise. I am sorry that some members of the Riigikogu assumed that this was a political speech. If that's what it looked like to you, I'm sorry about that, but it's a process of law that we actually have here today. The truth is that, every year, we have indexations with which the pension rises, plus we have an increase in the basic part of pensions from 1 January 2023, and that actually means mathematically that if we compare today's pensions and in 2023 the increase in the pensions of 1 April, that means that pensions will rise by about 100 euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U550	Okay. The President promises himself a modest reply on the same subject: I have understood that politics are being made in the Riigikogu. But maybe I've got it all wrong. I don't see any more questions. Thank you, Siret Eagle. It is now time for negotiations and the floor is asked for by Heljo Pikhof on behalf of the Socialists. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U551	Thank you, Mr President. Good fellows! Almost all political parties arriving in Parliament asked the voters for a mandate for an extraordinary increase in pensions. Moreover, this was the basic promise of the Prime Minister's Party. I would like to remind you here: the Reform Party wanted to increase old-age pensions by 200 euros over four years, supported by economic growth, which according to the Ministry of Finance means an extraordinary increase in pensions from EUR 100 to EUR 100. The Centre Party promised to raise the average old-age pension in 2020 exceptionally, with an indexation of EUR 100. Only an increase in extraordinary pensions will guarantee an average old-age pension of EUR 700 by 2023, they have said. The Social Democrats asked for support for pension increases in line with wage and price increases and plans to raise the average pension to 700 euros per month. EKRE promised to double the average pension over the next four years, i.e. approximately EUR 800. It should be mentioned here that the Social Democrats have submitted a draft to the Riigikogu procedure, which provided for an extraordinary increase of 100 euros in the base pension. Unfortunately, this draft was not supported in the large hall. If we now look at extraordinary pension increases, it can be said that almost half of the work will be done during these years. But the Social Democrats aren't happy that the other half isn't done. In terms of the functioning of the state, it is precisely what the government must definitely redeem from a large number of naked bills. Pensions are a key factor in alleviating poverty and precisely because pensions are the main source of income for older people. The adequacy of pensions means that pensioners are not at risk of poverty and have the opportunity to participate in public, social and cultural life. If we are now going back in time, the last analysis by the Ministry of Social Affairs showed that pensions must be increased by at least EUR 80 in exceptional terms in order to allow pensioners to cross the limit of relative poverty on average. That was for 2020. Looking back, we can say that this would have significantly reduced the number of elderly people in distress. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The European Commission has repeatedly raised the issue of pension inadequacy in its annual report by Estonia. In recent years, relative poverty among the elderly has increased and has been the highest in Europe or near it. In addition, Estonia's population is characterised by rapid ageing and the problems of the elderly continue to accumulate and accumulate. Social Democrats believe that people must also have a decent life in their old age. Let us keep our parents, our grandparents, and let us not deceive their hopes! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U552	On behalf of the Isamaa Group, Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U553	Thank you. The Fatherland Group, of course, supports the procedure for this draft and we intend to make our own amendments during the procedure so that it can be even better than what the government has brought here. I did not initially intend to give a speech because we do not have a proposal to exclude it from the procedure at first reading. However, the Minister's presentation urged the Minister to speak and to make a statement of the misunderstanding that has been included in this draft or, rather, in the two different drafts concerning the average pension tax exemption and the increase in the basic pension. There's some strange, incomprehensible ring game going on here that hasn't been explained and answered. The introduction of income tax exemption for average pensions is, as if, behind the development of IT systems. This is what we learned that these developments are not so complex, they can be done, but the Ministry's staff are busy with COVID topics and therefore cannot be implemented faster than on 1 January 2023. And it's not possible to raise the pension base earlier because we've decided that we'll do it together, at the same time. But why do you have to do it together? Political decisions, according to the Minister, take a great deal of time and it is difficult to reach agreements. Here I read that, therefore, the partner of the Reform Party in the government, the Centre Party, was the party that strongly opposed the extraordinary pension increase already taking place on 1 January 2022. Because who else do they negotiate with in the coalition than the only partner in the Central Party? Who else was it difficult to reach an agreement with? There are no more political parties in the coalition, as far as I know. It does not make sense to me why they must be done together, and in fact it does not make sense to me how it will take so long to develop IT systems in the e-state, Estonia, to make one relatively understandable change, which is taking into account the income tax exemption for the average pension, it will take so long to introduce it, and the entire Estonian pensionerhood will be waiting for it. There are no convincing arguments! There are no convincing arguments, and in the course of the procedure we will certainly propose an amendment to introduce an average tax exemption for pensioners, as well as an increase in the base share as early as 1 January 2022. It is also, in a sense, a test of capacity for the government coalition and actually expresses their political will. Finally, it is unclear why the available funds are still not recommended to be implemented immediately, as early as this year. We're hiding revenue. This is what we have been talking about here with the amendments to the Budget Act for this year, that it is known that income from pension reform will be collected already this year, but these revenues will simply not be shown this year, and next year's revenue will be collected. And those that are released and received only from the Social Fund can only be paid into pensions, nothing else. I know very well the situation of the pension fund, and I know that the state budget is also paid to it, but the assumption is and I will read out of the coalition agreement that the money released from the pension reform will go to pay pensions and that no reduction will be made in the funds paid from the state budget to the pension fund. Thus, the additional receipts should be reflected in the rise in pensions and should be reflected as early as next year and not in the year after that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U554	On behalf of the Reform Party Group, Luck Hillak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U555	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu and Minister! First of all, three points that, when we listened to those opinions, got a little scratch on the ear. Firstly, from the previous speaker's speech, I would remind you that there may have been some confusion that we are talking here about some drafts that were a few points before. We are talking about an extraordinary rise in pension, not an income tax exemption for the average old-age pension. And if I listen to this passionate fight of the Fatherland, how right now, in good case tomorrow, the average old-age pension could be exempt from income tax, then there will be such a dual emotion, because you were the ones who introduced this current tax system. Thanks to you, pensions are taxed. You had the chance to do it yourself while you were in the government. Why did you wait? The current government has been in work for less than a year, and the first thing we want to do is make this decision. Yes, it runs in 2023, but step by step, and it will be done. Second. As for the promises that were read out here, unfortunately, Heljo Pikhof has left the hall, I hope he listens to this. I would point out that this promise of €200 in pension increases was taken into account in a four-year perspective. For almost a year, the current coalition has been working. If we take next year's pension increase, the rise in the base part and its three-part package in 2023, this increase will be almost EUR 138 in a year and a half. I'd say we're at a pace. However, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that all of us in this Chamber of the Riigikogu agree that pensions must rise. Pensions must rise to EUR 1000. I don't think anyone's gonna mind. Rather, some of you may think that this is not possible, or some will certainly think that yes, the goal is right, but perhaps too bold. Fortunately, there are certainly people among us who began to think about how to make it happen. I hope that the last people who are thinking about how to do this will be the majority among us, because raising pensions to EUR 1000 must be our goal for the next few years. In Estonia, 40.6% of people of retirement age are in relative poverty, as has been heard from this remote control. Even if this number has decreased by a few percentage points each year and is decreasing, it is too much. Growing old must not be a fall in the risk of poverty in any country. We need to keep our pensioners, and we need to help them to keep up. This must be done consistently, and that will be the case. The extraordinary pension increase we are discussing here is one step that will help to get closer to retirement, which we will be better able to cope with in old age. Our mothers-fathers-grandmothers-grandfathers shouldn't be worried about how to make ends meet after daily spending and spending money on medicines. Dear ambassadors, I believe that you will support this government's proposal to increase pensions exceptionally from 1 January 2023 to EUR 20, as this will help to improve the well-being of pensioners. However, some of you would probably like to say and have already said here today that 20 euros for a pension increase is low, so we are not going to make it to a 1000-euro pension. On the one hand, I share that view. Can I have an extra three minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U556	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U557	The extraordinary pension increase alone remains small, but I recall, as has been repeatedly said here, that it is part of a three-part package which exempts the average old-age pension from income tax, in addition to the extraordinary pension increase from 1 January 2023. As a result of the indexation of 1 April 2023, pensions are still increasing. The average pension is expected to rise from EUR 591 to EUR 654 in 2023 by increasing and indexing extraordinary pensions. By adding an average income tax exemption to the old-age pension, pensioners who receive an average old-age pension will receive nearly EUR 100 per month in 2023. This is the biggest step in the last five years towards pensions that help older people to improve their performance. By continuing to raise pensions just as firmly, just as constantly, we will arrive sooner rather than later at the target of EUR 1 000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U558	I understand Helir-Valdor Seeder found Isamaa in the speech and wants a reclining. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U559	Thank you. I really do, because I wasn't mentioned by name, but clearly, when they said "pre-speaker of Fatherland." I was the previous speaker. I think the Rules of Procedure will allow me to reply for this reason. I wanted to remind a good colleague when he so emotionally reminded the Fatherland here that why, in the past, the average pension exemption was not introduced for pensioners and that the current coalition has agreed to do so. And now the attention! At the expense of funds released from pension reform. The pension reform only entered into force on 1 January 2021 and basic payments started only in September this year. So in the past, the funds used by the current coalition could not be used at all. Our plan was the same: the pension reform must be implemented first, and then the funds will be released to pensioners, because until now, the second pillar of the pension was paid precisely at the expense of today's pensioners. Our wish was to put an end to this injustice and pay it out to the pensioners today. So this has been a very trivial reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U560	Heljo Pikhof's name was mentioned too, so please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U561	The name was really mentioned. I mean, lucky I never left, I was in my room listening, and that's why I came back. But what I wanted to say is that if two political parties are in the government and your party's main promise is to raise the basic part of the pension at exactly this rate of €100, then I honestly do not understand why you will not raise it in 2022 and as the next step in 2023. You've been given every opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U562	All right, now we've exhausted the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 466. We're done with the first reading. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 8 December.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U563	Today's item is the draft law amending the State Pension Insurance Act and the Pension Pensions Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, 475 and the Minister of Social Protection Signe Riisalo presents it on behalf of the Government. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U564	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The second draft seems more complicated, but it is much more technical and practical. First of all, it is a change of two laws. The aim is largely operational: helping both pension applicants and those applying the law to understand the legal provisions in the same way and in a simpler way at the Social Insurance Board. The second amendment that comes with the draft is the automatic continuation of payment in September for survivors' pensions who are 18 to 24 years old. Here the Riigikogu should already have a familiar background related to the education information system. But then we're gonna start making the changes that we're about to make. First of all, the amendments to the State Pension Insurance Act are the payment of survivor's pensions, as stated, to students aged 18 to 24 in September. Today, the payments to learners will be cut off in September. When data from the Ministry of Education and Research's information system arrives in October, it will be paid afterwards for September. The amendment provides that we will automatically pay this September. If the corresponding registry notification comes in October, will continue to be paid, or if this message does not come, i.e. the learning process has been completed, the person has won it for one month in September, but the state will still take it on to make the situation of the people better. Maybe we'll go back to EHIS data, but a month later. This amount in terms of expenditure on the state budget is actually quite small, EUR 20000, and it is estimated that we are talking about 1800 people, for whom this monthly income, including in September, is actually important. The second amendment, which must be mentioned, is the reduction in the entitlement to a survivor's pension. We have a reduced seniority requirement for people with reduced working capacity when determining old-age pensions, with a reduction of one year per three years. This draft proposal proposes to introduce the same benefit for survivors' pensions for periods in which the provider whose income is the subject of this calculation is partially or totally absent. If such a change were to take effect, the Social Insurance Board would check all the pension files, they would make these changes themselves, no additional obligations for people, no requests or any other administrative steps would be added. Now, the implementation of pension supplements for calculating a flexible old-age pension. Pension supplements are not counted today and are paid separately. It is proposed that pension supplements should also be taken into account when increasing and reducing pensions. The new flexible pension arrangements will then be implemented. What's in the background? The background is that if the amount of a flexible pension is fixed in advance, if the amount of a flexible pension is reduced in a clear way when the person retires earlier, the five years that each of the flexible pensions is allowed under the law in force, then the amount of the pension will also be included in that amount. It will then also be covered by this reduction coefficient. The amount of flexible pension in the case of an average old-age pension before retirement would be EUR 548 for one child. If you now retire five years earlier, the reduction in your flexible old-age pension would be 22.6%, which would make this person's pension EUR 449.37. If we add and then reduce the supplement to the child [to be paid for raising], the old age pension will be EUR 443,67 and the loss would be EUR 5,7. Against this background, of course, there is also the desire for people to stay on the labour market longer, not to withdraw this flexible pension from the past if their health and other living conditions allow it. However, the amount of pension at a later retirement would again be higher and would be 9 euros higher. If we include the pension supplements there, it would be EUR 777,29 and EUR 9 would be a win for a person. The next round is to clarify the procedure for the recalculation of pensions. At present, a recalculation is made either from the date the application was submitted or from the first date of the month following the month in which the application was submitted. As there have been differences of opinion in practice between both the applicant and the implementing body, for reasons of legal clarity, the pension is recalculated from the date of application. Again, so that it is not possible to keep these procedures for too long and to be equally understandable. Now, the distribution of benefits among those who raised children. In the absence of an agreement, where entitlement to an old-age pension, to a retirement pension and to a supplementary pension for raising children is granted, all persons entitled shall be equally divided. Such persons may be, in addition to parents, for example, the parent's spouse and others, not just the parents. The decision to grant pensions will now be made by sharing equally those child-related supplements when there are two separate applicants. Okay. Then, separately, we will also have the costs of the law relating to IT costs, which is EUR 20000, in addition to the cost of the survivor's pension before, as well as EUR 20000. The second law that we amend within this framework is the law on funded pensions. [Provides] that regardless of age, persons with a lack of working capacity can retire from the second pillar. If such a person has not yet reached the age of the second pillar pension but has regained his or her capacity for work, the bill will allow him or her to start collecting money again in the second pillar if he or she so wishes. In the case of a fixed-term or life-long pension, the re-start of the accumulation requires the suspension of the pension. The draft complements the regulation of the pension contract so that there is also the possibility of suspending the payment of the pension so that the person can continue to collect the pension in a simpler way if he or she has a temporary incapacity for work. This draft would enter into force on 1 January 2023. That kind of thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U565	It seems that members of the Riigikogu have questions... Still, anyway. Mr. Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U566	Thank you very much. Well, Minister, you touched it a little bit, very briefly, but you didn't really open the contents. There are now two deadlines for implementation: one is 1 January next year and the other is 1 January 2023. Perhaps a little more information could be obtained as to why Article 2 of the bill cannot be implemented immediately in the new year, 2022?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U567	The amendment to the Savings Pensions Act concerns those people who would like to interrupt and so that they can come back to the pool smoothly. This is the choice we have made, and it is not linked to the IT solution, but most of the time we need to deal with informing the population before the law is implemented, contacting the target groups. All this preparation is wise to do. I recall that, in fact, we have good practice, which has not been written down anywhere, that, when we adopt any law, we leave a reasonable preparation and implementation. I have to admit that I, too, have been wrong about this on quite a number of drafts already during this short ministerial career. I'm sorry about that, but here's the bill, where we're going to leave a reasonable preparation period, contrary to the National Pension Insurance Act, where we're going faster.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U568	Well, I really don't see any more questions. Thank you, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U569	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U570	On behalf of the Social Affairs Committee, Happy Hillak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U571	Good chairman of the sitting! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu and Minister! I will give an overview of the debate that took place in the Committee on Social Affairs. The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft Act amending the State Pension Insurance Act and the Pension Pensions Act initiated by the Government of the Republic on 475 November 8th. The Commission meeting was invited to present the draft by Minister for Social Protection Signe Riisalo, who did it as thoroughly as he did here a moment ago. The Minister was also prepared to answer questions from the members of the Commission, but the members of the Commission did not raise any specific questions. The Committee on Social Affairs then took the following procedural decisions. In consensus, it was decided to propose that the draft 475 be placed on the agenda of the plenary assembly today, 24 November 2021, to conclude its first reading and to set ten working days for the deadline for amendments in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. I was also consensually appointed rapporteur for the commission, the Luck Hill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U572	Peter Ernits would like to ask. Please, Peter!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U573	[[Remote connection]] Yeah, I was surprised to hear that there was a silence like the cemetery, there were no questions. Why is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U574	Thank you for that question. The members of the committee had probably been so familiar with the materials in advance, and the Minister clearly and well explained these changes. I think that is why there were no further questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U575	Peter Ernits, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U576	[[Remote connection]] Interesting now. I've been on different committees, too, but no one's interested... How often does it happen in the Committee on Social Affairs that no one asks, doesn't care that the waitress is so good and the bill is so good that there aren't even any questions?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U577	Thank you, too, for this question. Yes, it may seem so incredible to you that the members of the Riigikogu, before the commission's [session], are also making the draft clear to themselves, but there are such good members on our committee. How often does that happen? Very rarely, very rarely.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U578	Now we've run out of questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. No requests, I'll close the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading of the 475 SE should end today. We're done here. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 8 December.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U579	Our 24th item is the draft law amending the State Secret and classified foreign information law and the Public Information Act 410 initiated by the Government of the Republic. And now we have the speech chair that Minister of Justice Maris Lauri is expecting. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U580	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will introduce you to the draft law amending the State Secrets and the Secret Foreign Information Act and the Public Information Act 410. The purpose of this draft is to update the regulation of the State Secrets and the Secret Foreign Information Act. The general purpose of this Act is to ensure the security and external communication of the State by protecting classified information from disclosure and disclosure to unauthorised persons. The current law entered into force at the beginning of 2008. All the changes so far have been based on the need to improve regulation on individual issues. This draft brings together issues raised by state secrets and external classified information processors and authorities responsible for protecting classified information over the last few years and therefore has a rather broad range of topics. The draft was drawn up in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the State Chancellery, the Defence Police Department, the Foreign Intelligence Board and the Defence Forces in 2019 Now, about the issues we're dealing with. The first major set of issues relates to the general need to update the requirements for the processing of classified information. The draft establishes a regulation that follows the principles of modern information management and paperless procedures, including modern ways of processing information and information media. In particular, the current requirements for the processing of classified information have been drawn up in the light of paper documents and are therefore not fully and reasonably applicable to classified information processed electronically. To address this problem, for example, the rules on the labelling and destruction of classified information will be updated to meet the requirements of the Archives Act. At the level of the Government of the Republic regulation, the recording of classified information material and the control of the entity are regulated in more detail. For clarification: The presence and integrity of classified information media shall be reviewed regularly during the status check. The basis and time limits for the classification of information will also be improved. This is done on a proposal from the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. For example, according to the bill, the Police and Border Guard Board is able to classify K Command's armaments, ammunition and special equipment as a limited state secret for up to 25 years. The draft extends the decision-making powers of the creators of classified information both in the early deletion of the information and in the extension of the classification period. In the interests of the efficiency of the decision-making process, the Minister can, according to the draft, delegate to the heads of the institution, where appropriate, the decision on the early deletion of information created within the scope of the ministry's administration. Under the current law, these decisions must be taken by the Minister. In this way, the head of the security authority, the Defence Forces and the Surveillance Authority shall have the right to decide on the early deletion of the state secret established by their own authority. In view of the need to know, the right to decide on the need for an extension of the period of secrecy will also be obtained by the Minister responsible for the field and, in the case of the State Chancellery, by the State Secretary. In accordance with the same objectives, the Head of the Security Authority shall decide on the extension of the period of secrecy established by the Security Authority. If the information is submitted to the Minister for decision, then the extension can only be decided by the Minister, not by the Authority. In the case of both early deletion and renewal, the rule applies that the Government of the Republic, as a collegial body, decides on the information that has been transferred to the information medium submitted to the Government of the Republic or to the Government Committee for decision-making. The draft will make it more flexible to grant the right to access a limited level of state secret to natural persons outside the Ministry's administration. The Minister shall have the opportunity to decide on a limited level of state secret for access to the right of natural persons outside the ministry's jurisdiction, if necessary by delegation to the Head of the Ministry's Administration. Under the current regulation, it is only the right of the Minister. For example, the Minister of the Interior must now grant access rights to cadets studying at the Academy of Internal Defence who need information in their studies. After the draft, these decisions can also be made, for example, by the Rector of the National Defence Academy, if the Minister of the Interior so decides. The objective of the draft act, which is very important in the field of defence, is to provide for the granting of the right of access to state secrets to a person in reserve who has been appointed to a military post, the performance of which necessarily requires the possession of a right of access to state secrets at a confidential level in the fields of defence and infrastructure and information protection. The draft establishes a security clearance procedure as soon as possible to grant access to such state secrets in order to ensure the functioning of military defence in preparation for situations (e.g. educational gatherings) and in real-world situations (e.g. martial law, mobilisation). The problems have started in practice with the fact that the person in the reserve does not have a daily service relationship with the Defence Forces. Therefore, the normal decision-making process for granting access has proved too time-consuming in practice. Prior to receiving the right of access to a confidential level of state secret, the person must be subject to a security check by which the person should submit the request himself or herself. However, the Defence Forces decide on the appointment of a military term, mostly on the basis of a person's training. According to the draft, the right to submit an application for inspection is granted to the Defence Forces, which evaluates the need to include and control a person in a particular military post, while maintaining the obligation to inform the person of his or her control and to ascertain the will of the person. This would be the case for a study gathering. The person in the reserve shall be informed at least 120 days in advance of the invitation to attend the gatherings. In the event of crises, for example, where mobilisation is required, martial law or increased willingness to defend, but also in the case of monitoring mobilisation readiness, for example, when additional training is collected, security checks can be carried out where necessary without prior verification of the individual's will. The checks themselves will be carried out in a faster procedure than has been the case. The draft complements the grounds for refusing to grant an authorisation for access to state secrets in accordance with the needs identified in the implementing practice. The requirements of the NATO Staff Trust Directive are part of this model. For example, authorisation can be refused to a person who has repeatedly violated the requirements for the protection of classified information. The basis for refusal associated with diagnosed addiction, be it narcotics, alcohol or gambling, has also been improved. The requirement to inform the person who carried out the security check of the change of name without delay shall be revoked. The information reaches the security authority through a registry request and therefore there is no need for the person to report the information quickly, and it can be obtained without the person's active participation. The draft extends the list of posts on which security checks on working persons are carried out by the Foreign Intelligence Agency. Under current law, it's the kapo. For example, in the interests of the objectivity and impartiality of the control, it is necessary that persons in positions in the Ministry of the Interior who coordinate the work of the kapo do so by the Foreign Intelligence Office. The proposal updates and extends the regulation on the transfer of state secrets outside the country. In the current law, the circle of authorities with the right to provide information is very narrow. Only the State Chancellery, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Defence Forces and the Security Authority may pass on state secrets to an institution created by a foreign state, an international organisation or an international agreement. In view of Estonia's membership in the European Union, NATO and other international organisations, such a restriction is outdated and does not allow other ministries and public authorities, i.e. not listed, to perform their duties reasonably in relation to participation in the work of international organisations. The draft has created flexible regulation and unambiguous conditions for the transfer of information to a foreign country. The most important requirement under the principle of information protection is that the recipient of the information ensure protection against disclosure of the information transmitted. This requirement is expressed in external agreements, namely agreements on the exchange and protection of classified information, which the Republic of Estonia has concluded with foreign countries. If there is no such agreement yet, for example, as negotiations are still ongoing, information can also be provided on the basis of the decision of the Security Committee of the Government of the Republic if the recipient of the information ensures protection against disclosure of the information transmitted. The draft introduces one amendment to the Public Information Act on the proposal of an authorised representative for national security. The amendment concerns external information with access restrictions and aims to ensure greater legal clarity in the implementation of the requirements for the protection of external information with access restrictions. The Public Information Act does not currently have the possibility to make an AK mark in accordance with Estonian law for external information with a restriction on access. However, this information must be protected in practice as AK information, as it is neither public nor external classified information. For this reason, the current regulation creates confusion in the data processors, it is not unambiguous to understand which external information with a restriction on access and for what period must be treated as a document intended for official use. According to the draft, the possibility of using external information subject to a restriction on access is created, i.e. not an obligation for institutions that process such information, if necessary, also for internal use, if this is necessary in the interests of legal clarity by the information processor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U581	Kalle Grünthal will start asking questions. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U582	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I look at you and I listen to you, and I wonder where we've come from, and we can't know anything soon enough. I will give just one example. I am the chairman of the Estonian ship crash investigation support group in the Riigikogu and I wanted to know how cooperation between the safety investigation centres Sweden, Estonia and Finland will take place. The answer was that information intended for official use which could not be disclosed should not be disclosed. Let me see exactly what the reason is. This is because the disclosure of this information is detrimental to relations between countries. Now you're going to tighten it even more. So what's left? The total volume of this material is 80 pages. Perhaps it would be easier to make a bill that is two-leaf and which states what is allowed to be published?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U583	It is regrettable that you have not been able to access the information you have requested. Members of the Riigikogu generally have the right of access to these documents, but without doubt this also means that they must ensure that this information is not made public, that they must act as such documents are treated and not disclose them. So I don't know why you weren't allowed to. I would certainly like to point out that the draft actually extends state secrets only in two respects. And in my opinion, on a perfectly reasonable scale. In particular, I think you understand that this cannot be publicly known, as well as information on Special Unit Armaments, ammunition, special equipment and equipment. The rest are clarifications that allow for a more operational, convenient and rational treatment of the existing regime. When you listened to my report, there was a pretty long section devoted to how the deadlines could be shortened. If it is found that information is no longer so high in need of secrecy, it can be reduced.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U584	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U585	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, Instead, I ask in the context of the Estonian language. I'm going to read a paragraph to make my question come out better. "For documents with a restriction of access which has been communicated by a foreign country or an international organisation and which are considered to be information intended for internal use, an Estonian-language indication in accordance with subsection 2 of this section shall be added if requested by the issuing State or organisation, if provided for in an external agreement...' and shall continue to apply from here. It should be noted that it is usually written either in English or, in some cases, in French. Why should we expect another country to demand it in Estonian, and why are we not automatically applying it out of respect for our national language? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U586	Thank you. In fact, there is no such regulation at the moment. If, for example, NATO, the European Union or our partner countries provide us with some document that they have a limited right of use, whatever it is, then the Estonian side has no right to add any more words to it under the current law. Therefore, every user may not know exactly how to handle this document at any time. So this amendment in the law makes it possible, but does not oblige, to put the AK marks on it in Estonian, i.e. it is for internal use. Then there is clarity, it is not just a document that can be put on the corner of the table and hope that someone will pass and read it from there, but that it will be treated as an internal document. Perhaps this opportunity will be created that is not present, so it will actually become clearer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U587	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U588	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I have a little bit of a principled question. I expect that if the law is amended, it is justified and necessary. The average generation is 20 years old, so let's say 20, more or less. I refer to the fact that in Article 7 (8) of the Act, the figure 25 is replaced by 50. This is the section on the amendment and classification of § 37 of the Order of the Defence Forces Act. This information is classified under the current regime for 25 years, i.e. essentially a little over a generation, but now it has been increased to 50, or almost three. It's a colossal leap. What is the justification for such a strengthening of secrecy? How is this justified?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U589	These bases, which in certain limited cases create the possibility of extending this period to 50 years, are linked, generally speaking, to the fact that we can talk for 20 years, are counted as a generation, but the reality is that when we look at people today, people's lives and working lives are often considerably longer, even two and, in some cases, three times longer. This simply means that because of someone's position, some information may prove sensitive and worth protecting, because a person has been in some position, has dealt with some things, or is still in his position, of which the forces who are hostile to Estonia should not know, because it may not be useful.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U590	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U591	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. 80 pages, in the shadow of the night, somehow you come here in the shadow of the night with your things like this. However, the Supreme Court has stated in a clear Estonian language that if the general direction is taken to increase the amount of classified information, to extend the time limits for secrecy and to make it difficult for citizens to have legal access to state secrets, what does all this entail, especially in court proceedings. Your ministry has said two words about the concerns of this Supreme Court: "made for knowledge." What does that mean? Is that the content of this bill and the point of it being more and more classified and making it more difficult to obtain information?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U592	I'm sorry, I didn't hear you very well, but if I understood your observation, it bothers you that it is written:'made known' and that it is as if it is accepted by the position that one of the parties involved or consulting has said. According to my understanding, "Accepted for knowledge" in Estonian means that it is understood what the opposite party has wanted to say that has been understood. I can assure you that this bill had very lively discussions. This draft has, in fact, been dealt with for a very long time and has been considered by a number of force organisations and stakeholders, and the scope of this extension is still very limited and has been very prudently done. And this has been done in order to have a better opportunity to protect information that is important to the Estonian state, i.e. state secrecy. Here, too, there are a number of practical solutions. In many cases, things are actually made simpler and more logical. For example, earlier removal of the signs of secrecy, access to certain situations which at this point, for example, would not be possible or practically feasible. Issues that are of paramount importance to national defence will also be resolved. If the persons in reserve in a national defence position were to come into a national defence post and would have to use confidential information in that position, they would have such permits. If they don't have that permit, they can't take their defence positions. Perhaps that would simply mean that our national defence would be weakened. We could not, for example, set up our own units, if necessary, simply because people who are in normal life, in civil life, do not have access to classified information, but they should do so in solving a national defence mission. It would make sense, for example, that their background checks would be carried out earlier. In fact, I would like to stress that this control is also a matter of consent. If they don't give their consent, they won't do it and they probably won't be able to put them in that position. Those facts, which specify the grounds for refusal, I would point out that these grounds for refusal are not imperative, but are an opportunity to assess in certain situations. For example, if a person goes to a country that is perhaps not desirable, because we have a difficult relationship with that country, but he cannot explain why he has been there, under what circumstances, this may in certain cases be the basis for not giving that person access to secret information. Or, for example, if a person has addiction problems or has some other vital circumstances that make him very easily blackmailable, it would make sense that given these people some level of access to state secrets or classified information is considered whether the risks are high or not high. And if they seem too high, [access to classified information] would not be given. I do not think that we should create as a country an opportunity where secret information, which is defenceally important, would be very easy for hostile forces to catch up with us. So I don't think the solutions in this law are... The law is really thick, because there is an explanatory memorandum that explains these points very thoroughly, precisely so that it can be understood. The law itself is not very long. He has a lot of paragraphs, details, and, as I said, he is dealing with practical problems that have developed over the years, but the thickness of the printout is due in particular to the fact that the explanatory statement is very long and comprehensive and there is a lot of background information. I myself have seen much thicker and much worse drafts with explanatory notes when working here in the Riigikogu. But in my opinion, a slightly worse option is the fact that the long draft explanatory memorandum is too short and not comprehensive. [It is better] if the draft has a very comprehensive explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U593	Marko Storm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U594	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Very honourable Minister! I don't have so much to ask, but I'd rather make such an acceptable line. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, when the draft was under discussion, I dare say that there was no very big discussion of very sharp pencils this time. It is likely that this long preparation period for the draft has produced a clear result and the explanations given in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs were completely exhaustive. I'm sure there'll be more in the process, but in any case, there's credit for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U595	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U596	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U597	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! As for the problem I raised with Estonia, I, of course, received the AK document. I got it, but I wasn't supposed to make it public because there was an AK on it, damaging relations between countries. An important subject that must remain a secret. But we're coming today. Kalle Grünthal and Kert Kingo submitted an inquiry into a case in which an alleged offence occurred in the Defence Forces. We asked what happened, why it happened. The answer came, on the AK mark, from the Secretary of Defense. First, they asked what we were gonna do with this information. Do you understand? These barriers are already up. Now that the law is passed, I can't imagine how it's gonna get anything out of it. So please make this law a circle that specifically lists a short list that you can ask for.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U598	Thank you. I would like to emphasise once again: the problems you have raised are not dealt with by this draft. If the question is that there is certain information, you may have the right to access it in justified circumstances, in justified circumstances. That is exactly how all people who are granted access are entitled to it, whether with AK marks or "classified" signs. There must be a reason why a person wants to get to know some material. If he wants to know it, it means he can't disclose the information he finds in that document. That's why they're on it, they're on it for good reason. If they are not justified, then there is the next process and it must be removed. If you find that a document is mislabelled, you must contact the authority that has marked it with the question of why this has been done. But the holder of the information, the creator of the information, is the one responsible for the information and for the fair use of that information. This also applies to personal data, for example. And it's always a question of personal data. I see nowhere in this law that something is going to be classified very widely. In my opinion, this is a very necessary law that clarifies certain aspects. There really are a few places where secrecy is growing, but they are created in very justified situations with very well-founded possibilities. At the same time, there are a number of rules that actually make it easier and protective to put down "classified" signs or even to take it down. You obviously have not read the bill, or you have done so in a vicious and prejudiced mood. I suggest you read neutrally and try to understand why these things are done, then you will certainly understand that this is essential.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U599	Mr Grünthal now has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U600	I have a procedural question. I would not like to agree that the honourable waitress gives disparaging opinions as to whether I have read and whether I am malicious, etc. What I want to say is that, by virtue of the Home and Working Procedures Act, we have a minister coming here and answering the question instead of giving us values.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U601	It wasn't a procedural question. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U602	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'll pick up where I left off. You yourself pointed out in answering my question that yes, it creates an opportunity to make a mark in Estonian, to make an AK mark. After all, the explanatory memorandum states clearly: there have been problems that a particular document may be made available to third parties. Here's the other part of my question, why don't we mark it, but we'll write here that we can put it. In fact, in Estonia, if there are any restrictions on our documents, we could, in any case and whenever this AK mark has been introduced, say, in English, still be included in Estonian. Why can't we, but we don't? That was the point of this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U603	Likely, there are situations where the matter is unambiguous. In the case of certain bodies, the classification shall be unambiguous. So it doesn't have to be impervious, so there's a chance that it'll be deliberately put on it. I agree with you. There are simply foreign documents, where there may be no mention at all, not even a foreign language. Let's say, then the question arises as to whether or not this is necessary. And since this document has been produced by an external agency, it is usually the one who draws up the document that marks us. So this is where certain documents need to be assessed as to whether this document needs secrecy and an AK mark or not. I'm sure there's some documents that don't need it. That's what this is all about. But I believe that we have enough competent people who will continue to watch very closely so that everything can be done properly and there will be no distractions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U604	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U605	Yeah. Honestly, I'm embarrassed to hear this. After all, we all know that Estonia lives in the mania of the secrecy of officials. There is no question here that this law will make it even easier for us to cover up all sorts of petty things for an endless period of time. Well, frankly, I've been a minister, and I've also been to the Riigikogu, we all know what kind of special pleasure officials beat red stamps onto any paper, just to hide their incompetence and incompetence or even their corruption. In Soviet times, there was a thing like glasnost that was launched to cover up this terrible mania of secrecy at one point. I cannot listen to these stories about how an alien enemy is going to abuse our documents, even though we all know that it is impossible for us to get even the most basic papers. I have a question. I understand why the officials are putting these papers under our noses, these drafts.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U606	Martin, time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U607	They stuffed them in our time, too, these decisions, but we beat back those documents. But why do you politicians agree?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U608	Thank you. I believe that this bill is essential because it solves certain problems raised in handling classified information.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U609	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U610	Good manager! Minister of Justice! First of all, you said that the "take for knowledge" means that taken into account, but you know very well that usually it is either "considered" or "discounted." So this talk, like, especially... But I will return to the Honorable Supreme Court. It explicitly states that the purpose of this draft law is to extend the time limits for the classification of information and to extend the definitions of information which is considered to be state secrets. the grounds for refusal of access. It is noteworthy that he says this: all this is done only to make the work of officials more comfortable. I repeat, to make the officials' work more comfortable. And that's not what I'm saying, it's what the Supreme Court says about this bill. What does that mean? You said "acquired" means it's accounted for. Or maybe that's what confirms that yes, it's about more secrecy... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U611	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U612	... more to prevent access to information etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U613	Mr. Ernits, time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U614	Time. Raivo?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U615	Yeah, it's been so long, it's been 30 seconds over a minute to ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U616	Yeah, yeah. I guess it's Raivo Time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U617	Thank you. I would point out that the Supreme Court has made its mark on this version of the bill that dates back to 2020, and its mark was made on 6 May, or a year and a half ago. During that time, the bill has changed. So I think that this time, too, and this opinion has actually been taken into account in supplementing this draft. And this view has also been taken up in the revision and amendment of the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U618	Mr. Ernits, do you have a procedural question? [[Silence.]] Now, since we can't get in touch with Mr. Ernitsa right now, we'll get Mart Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U619	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You're actually confused like mush and cabbage what's a state secret, which is a secret for maintaining national security, which is an operational secret and everything else, this secrecy. I'll tell you, no matter how you don't hide here or talk about any discretions and things, we'll just remember a few names: Deniss Metsavas, Herman Simm, Dressen, whose first name I've forgotten. All of them are people in very high places, people shot through filters, people working with the highest level of secrecy in all their fields. But what wasn't was keeping a secret. So we're fighting against this bill because it's breaking through an open door and not making it any better.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U620	Thank you. I understand that the honourable member of the Riigikogu gave his opinion and went over to the speeches.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U621	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U622	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. I still have to turn to the warning of state judges in the same way, because, by looking at this bill itself, I do not see in any way that fear of state judges may not have been removed, but, let's say, the warning that this law has clearly taken on the tendency to increase the number of classified information, to extend the secrecy periods and to apply the legal access of citizens to state secrets, which, according to the Supreme Court, significantly increases the number of cases where documents containing state secrets are used as evidence. It's absolutely inevitable. How would you lower the fear of the judges of the state that the tendencies brought about by law will not increase the number of cases where state secrets documents are used?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U623	Thank you. I would like to point out once again that this opinion of the Supreme Court has been made a year and a half ago and has been followed by further work on the draft. When you read this draft, you are familiar with this draft, in particular the explanatory memorandum, you will see that there are very, very little room for increased security, and there is also a very detailed explanation of why they are. There's been a lot of opportunities here where secrecy can be reduced. There are situations where things have been made clearer, more understandable and practically applicable, not too bureaucratic. Amongst them, I would like to emphasise once again, the possibility of taking down the classifications earlier. I do think that the Supreme Court will have no more problems this time when it is familiar with this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U624	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U625	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I'm basically continuing. You probably haven't noticed, but the vast majority of society has noticed that during your reign, we've got an aggravated lack of civil control over security agencies and force authorities. My question, specific: how does this draft improve the possibilities and capabilities of civil control over the activities of these same bodies?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U626	Thank you. The purpose of this draft was, and is, as I introduced in my report, to update the regulation on how to process classified information. It specifies how to destroy information, how to put on labels, how to check that classified information is still there. The time limits, the grounds, the reasons for which can be withdrawn, the circumstances in which the marks are placed, withdrawn, extended, etc. shall be specified. Not every bill has to deal with what you want. I think that a number of practical issues that are necessary have been resolved here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U627	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U628	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Were civil society organisations, the Institute of Human Rights and media representatives involved in the design of the project? After that, the trouble begins again, that they have not been spoken to at all, because we always see these things from different angles of view, it would not be bothering to hear that big screaming.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U629	Thank you. This draft started with the planned development of 2018. And with a plan to develop, it is possible for all parties concerned to express their views on it. He will certainly be expelled, as is always the case with all the drafts for those who are expected to have a bearing on the matter, and they will have the opportunity to express their views. But in 2018 I was not really a minister, nor was I involved in the drafting of this bill, so I do not know which, how to say, coordination circles on some occasions [were passed] and with whom more was discussed. I assume the parties I read here, such as the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the State Chancellery, the Defence Police Department, the Foreign Intelligence Service and the Defence Forces, worked with it. The Supreme Court and the National Archives have expressed their views on the coordination, although not on the intention of drafting, but on the first version of the draft. So everybody's had a chance. I guess there are reasons why they have not made [proposals]. Maybe they didn't think it was important, or they didn't think it had anything to do with them.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U630	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U631	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In the case of secrecy, there's a little overemphasis on it. Secrecy slows things down, it requires more officials. And now there is also a weakness in this bill: there has been no mention of control over decision-makers. Is it not too easy, for example, to place a security stamp? And as a positive thing, objectively... or more balanced work has become with partners, such as military intelligence. [[The connection's breaking up.]] But, as a small country, should we not complement this procedure? Because in long-term cooperation people have become very close acquaintances and friends. That's a question for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U632	Thank you. It is as I pointed out here, and as the draft states, part of the security clearance goes to the Foreign Intelligence Service, precisely to prevent it being controlled, and to ensure objectivity and impartiality. In the case of a small country like Estonia, the question arises as to who could be the third, fourth, fifth or sixth controller. We know that there is not so much of these institutions now that we can rule out that no one knows the other. Probably in larger countries too, it is a story that there is quite a lot of cooperation between these institutions and that one another is known. However, I assume that they will be able to be professional and that there will also be control mechanisms that exclude that they cannot be sufficiently objective and impartial. So there is an addition to this draft, precisely to increase objectivity and impartiality. As in a small country like Estonia, where there are few institutions capable of carrying out security checks, this is perhaps the right approach.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U633	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U634	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Well, I didn't get an answer to my last question. I'm just saying, as a reminder, during the last government, officials came here to stuff it. First, you shoved it to the Minister of the Interior, who is probably a much sharper pencil in politics than the current Minister of Justice, he immediately bit through what a rotten egg it is, and rejected it. Then it began to be sold to the then Minister of Defence, who also came to tell us about national defence and state secrets. Again, our party blocked it in the government. Now it's like a dead cat thrown in the Justice Department's yard, and the current Minister of Justice here is happy to sell us this rotten egg. We all understand that officials simply want to build a huge opaque wall around their activities for 75 years or 50 years. We understand all of this. But why do politicians agree? We need to protect the public interest, we need to protect it so that we have a transparent democratic state with some kind of supervision and control. Why do you agree to this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U635	Thank you. It's a little hard for me to understand exactly what you're complaining about. I understand that we, it's you, and you're against everything. I'm not you, I'm not against everything. And I will approach the matter analytically, see if these activities are justified or not, rather than saying badly about other people, officials, and assuming that everyone else is bad and bad, only you are the only good. I don't suppose I'm the only good either, but I'll do my best. If you find that I'm not doing my best, then you have the freedom to think so. I have the freedom not to accept it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U636	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U637	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The answer to my previous question would continue, but everything tends to be that continuous cooperation makes a person a friend and humanely it may be difficult to be sharp enough at the moment, although it should be professionally. But I'm asking about the state of war and mobilisation, for example. The number of people involved in defending the state is increasing, and the place where they have to work with state secrets, for example, is no longer a safe and tailored office. When developing this law or making improvements to it, were these things discussed how to keep up with its volume and everything? I'm not reading it from anywhere right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U638	Thank you. As has been said, this draft has been drawn up for a very long time, and in these processes I have not personally been everywhere and at any moment, so I cannot deny or confirm that one or the other matter was not discussed. In this case, it is in this form and, of course, the question is whether we are putting some sort of notation too lightly, above all, there is a problem here in the so-called AK notation, 'for official use'. This notation is not the subject of this draft; it falls under the second draft. So in the future, with other drafts and processes, which are also planned, in preparation and in preparation, the issue of how to slow down this perhaps a little unbridled AK-marking at very different levels will have to be addressed. As regards the need to work with classified information in certain cases in different institutions and courts, it seems understandable that if there is classified information subject to certain processing and storage requirements, these requirements must also be applied during the trial, of course, so that the necessary access to this information can also be granted to the lawyers and to the judges when the need arises. This must certainly be monitored because it cannot be the case that some information with a certain type of classification has been treated in the same way in one room or one institution, but in another room or another. So it would certainly be better if there were less classified information. Unfortunately, certain cases that have raised and created the need for such information [secretion] have probably also resulted from the complexity of the technology and the tension of the foreign policy situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U639	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U640	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! The current versions of the State Secret Act have not been able to prevent the very serious treasons that we have committed, for example, the case of Herman Simm and Deniss Metsavas. At the same time, no one has transferred either official or political responsibility to their appointment. Is there any change here? Is there anything that would define the future of official and political responsibility towards the persons whose actions or decisions give rise to treason?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U641	Thank you. I certainly hope that no traitor will enter important positions in the future and no traitors will come at all. But we can't rule that out. This law doesn't deal with crimes. Dealing with crimes is a matter of other laws. It's still a question of man and human behavior. The fact that one document is classified or unclassified, well, I don't know how much it encourages or doesn't encourage treason. Perhaps for some it makes things more appealing, but in my opinion and in my opinion, the people who go to treason are still a question of man. As far as the context of this law is concerned, there is an opportunity here to restrict access to classified information under certain conditions a little more widely. It's an opportunity, not an obligation. You certainly know that there is a list of the circumstances in which access permits are not granted. There's ten of them. And then there's a whole bunch of conditions that you can take into account, but you don't have to take into account, and that's what a decision is about. There will be further details, precisely in order to consider the situations that I described earlier, for example when a person is addicted or goes somewhere unfriendly and cannot explain why he is going there, perhaps he is unable to explain the reasons behind his actions. Then, on the basis of discretion and justification, a permit to access a secret may not be granted. So, in a sense, it is being restricted, and it is likely to contribute so much that people who could potentially be traitors are not so easily accessible to classified information.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U642	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U643	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. In this regard, paragraph 70 states that § 48 (3) is amended and worded as follows: "The Foreign Intelligence Office carries out security checks on the following persons:... " So. I'm sorry! I got out of my way for a second. "... . A person applying for or in employment at the Foreign Intelligence Office and in the service or work, with the exception of the Director General and his deputy, and any other official or employee of the Foreign Intelligence Directorate appointed by the Director General. " Perhaps my question is: Who then carries out security checks on the Director General of the Foreign Intelligence Directorate, his deputy, and the officials appointed by the Director General?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U644	This is now the place where checks are carried out across the so-called institutions, i.e. not by the institution concerned. In order to rule out the same thing, so that there may be an addiction or discomfort, another security authority will check the suitability of the heads of another security authority. I don't have the whole law with me, the law in force, so I'm not going to tell you exactly how these things are defined in the current law, just in case. As has been said, the new law extends the cross-checks of other institutions. Only the part that is being changed to date is given here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U645	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U646	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I got exactly the answer I thought this interagency cross-check was going to happen. However, I look at the following point [71] and it reads as follows: "in paragraph 2 of paragraph 49, the words "at least three members of the Commission shall be set up by the Security Authority at the request of the Head of the Security Review Body by the Minister concerned' shall be replaced by the words "the Head of the Security Review Body shall set up a Commission of at least three members'. We were talking about civilian control and the importance of it. I see clearly here that, now that these security authorities are going to cross-check each other and the Minister, or the representative of civil control, is being excluded, this is actually a problem. What's your opinion on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U647	I think that precisely because this committee is formed or defined by the Minister, civil control is carried out. Ministers are known to be civilians. It is their responsibility to ensure that those who deal with the subject are [courses] and competent and that they do their work properly. It is also, in a sense, the responsibility of the Minister to make sure that those who come to the Commission are suitable, relevant, and that this committee, as a small member, is balanced. So that's how this balance can be made. Because things must also take account of the fact that when reviewing these documents, people must have access permits and must also have the competence to assess the value of this information and the extent to which it is required to be classified. So we cannot expect there to be people in such a committee who are not in contact with it at all, little in touch, or whose credibility is doubtful. The Minister will carry out, or mediate, civilian control, or perhaps ensure, this side.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U648	Helle-Moonika Helmel must have had a procedural question. What's the problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U649	[[Remote connection]] Yeah, I have a procedural question. I am very sorry that the Minister does not have this law with him. That is exactly what I am saying that this is where it is amended, § 49 (2), and the Minister is taken out of this process. That's the problem, and that's what I asked you about, but the minister answers me, yes, it's very good that the minister exercises this control. But it clearly states here that the Minister will be excluded from this and that this Commission will only be set up by the head of the body responsible for the security clearance.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U650	Yeah, it wasn't procedural now. This could have been said nicely during the negotiations. Okay. Thank you, Madam Secretary. The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. We go to what happened in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and this is passed on by Marko Storm. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U651	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, I am even a bit faced with a dilemma, on the basis of the President-in-Office's comment today that he is expecting the quintessence of the Commission's rapporteur on what took place in the Commission. Indeed, we had a long series of presentations in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, a very good presentation by a minister in the committee and supported by his advisers. The dilemma, however, is that we did not, in fact, have much discussion of this draft in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, unlike the usual one. There were some individual technical issues that were already resolved before the presentation, in the style of "Should the draft be dealt with by the Special Committee on Security Oversight?'. But the answer was actually simple: it can and must be dealt with by the permanent committees of the Riigikogu. But the content after the reports, as I said, did not go very thoroughly. It is now that I have done for myself, to come out of this plight, a summary of the length of A4 which, at least, seemed to me to be most important in this draft. But once again, having witnessed the Minister's report just a moment ago, I would say that the report of this A4 would be, it seems to me, a serious repetition, and I would rather skip it. Moving, I believe, relatively rapidly to procedural decisions. Before that, perhaps a couple of emphasis on why it seems to me that the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs went very smoothly, at least this time. Indeed, as the Minister pointed out, the process started already in 2019, even in 2018 it had already started in the Ministry of Defence. In 2019 several ministries started working on the preparation of the draft. You supported, as I look at my notes, the Foreign Intelligence Department, the State Chancellery, the Defense Police. And in June 2021, the Government of the Republic also initiated the draft. As has been said, the aim was to ensure the security and external relations of the Republic of Estonia, protecting both state secrets and classified foreign information from disclosure, and also certainly from persons who have no reason to gain access to secret or restricted information. A total of 77 amendments, a number of which were also technical in nature. I can't remember if the Minister mentioned the topics of the Defence League, but indeed in many cases the Defence League, which has previously been dealt with by law as a state institution, has now become a clearer interpretation. It is a legal body governed by public law and it is now clearly stated, made correct. Maybe one more moment that might be highlighted. In particular, in the case of the Ministry of Defence, where the Minister of Defence has previously confirmed by decree the systematic protection of computer networks, the Ministry itself has provided for a consensus decision to be broader and has authorised the Government of the Republic to organise these matters and take decisions. But the meeting of the Commission really took place on 8 November through the video bridge. Mr Grünthal, Korobenik, Läänemets, Puustusmaa, Storm and Võrguship were present and led by the chairman of the commission, Mr Kivimägi, and Minister Maris Lauri, Counsellor Signe Reinsalu and Head of Lawmaking of the Ministry of Defence Guido Pääsuke were present as guests. Representatives of the Foreign Intelligence and Internal Security Policy Department were also present, but I do not name them here for obvious reasons. It was decided to put the draft on the agenda of the large hall, as we can see today, by 24 November (the decision was consensual) and five members supported the proposal to conclude the first reading: Kivimägi, Korobenik, Western Forests, Storm and Võrguship and two against: Grünthal and Puustusmaa; the rapporteur was appointed (on the basis of consensus) here. I thank you and hope that we will be able to support our work on security and law enforcement in further processing and adopting this draft as a law. I am grateful for the questions and ready to answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U652	Tarmo Kruus Mountain begins. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U653	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! We heard that this bill was launched in 2018, but at that point we did not have, say, this geopolitical situation. Now there is a hybrid war in Lithuania and Poland. My question is, did it also appear during the Commission's discussions that some positions have remained in 2018 and some activities would no longer be useful, because, in that time, we say, information technology has advanced quite a bit?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U654	Thank you for your question. Indeed, as I said, in the Commission we did not really have a very big discussion or a substantive debate. The reports were adequate for the members of the Commission at the time, and it seems to me that there was enough information. However, in this large Chamber today, I have heard the question of your question and, as I understand it, the Minister has also assessed it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U655	No further questions. Thank you! Let's go to the negotiations. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Kert Kingo!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U656	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a good sitting. First, I'd like to ask for three more minutes, just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U657	Please, eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U658	I take a very critical view of such classifications and bans and restrictions. If you say something that's classified, the first thing everyone remembers is the circumstances of the VEB Fund, which was classified for 70 years. Similarly, the summary report of Estonia's doom, which was classified for 75 years. In this context, it is a very sensitive issue and everyone has doubts about their secrecy. We also often unduly restrict the documents and information of institutions and ministries. In fact, these restrictions, these ban signs and these classifications should begin to be reviewed and rescinded or rescinded in the first place. For example, the situation mentioned by Kalle Grünthal, where one event took place in the security area of the Defence Forces in June, where there was reason to believe that security rules had been violated. Our colleague, Kalle Grünthal, then asked written questions about this, but we simply did not receive this information. It was reported that this information is for internal use. Of course, we can assume why such things are kept secret and they find a reason or excuse for not being published. For years, we were talking here, I remember, about public disclosure and transparency within the framework of the reform of the state. We followed European values. I have a question of where this transparency of ours is, let us say, all this publication and disclosure is now suddenly left. What happened to that direction? We were moving towards disclosure, but now it's gone somewhere. We kept moving in the direction that all kinds of bans would only be imposed in a very justified case. These must be very well-founded restrictions when it comes to, for example, well-sensitive issues that really have reason to be restricted. But now it is often the case that we read about documents or activities classified as secret information, for example, in the Yearbook of the Defence Police. Otherwise, state secrets are protected, but the yearbook contains the same stories, information and cases protected by state secrets. The aim of all these restrictions and extensions is likely to be to hide something in order to hide the infringements in order to avoid liability and to avoid penalties. I don't see any other reason for mass contamination. So that these dark and suspicious acts do not see the light. But this is, in my opinion, a step back to stagnation, the Soviet mentality, where everything was secret, nothing was to be spoken about, and everything was to be untouchable. I therefore believe that the same bill is part of this movement, another step to keep everyone quiet, to veto everything. That's not good. That is why this bill is another bad bill. This bill is another step towards all kinds of secrecy, silence and concealment. It provides legal means of concealing possible unlawful harmful acts. In conclusion, this is also the reason why the Conservative People's Party of Estonia proposes to reject the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U659	There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. Mart Helme, on this point, we have such a story that only the representatives of the political groups can speak at first reading in the negotiations. Okay. The commission's proposal is to conclude the first reading of the draft, but we have indeed received a paper from the EKRE Group's proposal to reject the draft law amending the State Secret and classified foreign information law and the Public Information Act at first reading, and we need to vote it through. Honourable Riigikogu, I would like to vote before you on the proposal of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia to reject the draft law amending the State Secret and classified foreign information law and the Public Information Act 410 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U660	16 members of the Riigikogu supported the proposal, 45 against. The proposal was not supported. We're done with the first reading. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 8 December.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U661	Our next item on the agenda, 25., is the draft law amending the Act of the State Government on the Law of the Performance Institution and the Law of the National Opera, number 419. On behalf of the Government, this will be introduced by Tiit Terik, Minister of Culture. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U662	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I bring before you a draft law which, in the best sense of the author of the draft, would create clearer conditions for supporting Estonia's diverse theatre image and would make the organisation and financing of the field more up-to-date. The aim of cutting red tape is also not of minor importance. The law of the performing institution in its current form is, in our opinion, in the way of time. In particular, the Act of a performing institution, which has been in force since 2003, and which has largely been based on its version since 1997, has so far regulated the activities of the performing institutions, in particular those acting as public authorities. At the same time, the activities of all state performing bodies have now been completed and there are no plans to form more. Instead, foundations created by the state have come and we also have a very diverse and thriving landscape of private performing institutions. Yes, it must be acknowledged that the landscape of the performing institutions has developed much faster in recent years than the legal space supporting it. The law that is still in force has also provided an opportunity for ambiguities, and there have also been litigation in the financing and implementation of the institutions, which is not, I believe, in any way to one or the other party to the dispute. The aim of amending the law is to make the legislation relating to performing institutions and performance activities clearer and more flexible. Firstly, we want to update the definition of performing institutions and other things that have changed in practice in the field over time. Secondly, we would reduce the bureaucracy and administrative burden on the performance agencies. Thirdly, we would organise a system of funding in the field of performing arts. With the exception of some important but still ancillary clauses, we could say that the performing institution will in future be a legal person or institution whose main activity is the stage and performance of theatre and dance performances or concerts, musical stage activities or the ancillary activities of performing arts. Of course, further clarifications and requirements would apply to those performing bodies that would like to continue to apply for public support in the future. In the current situation, all performing institutions are obliged to report themselves to the Ministry, but in the future, the creation of a new show agency should not necessarily be notified to the State. This is, I believe, also a simplification that could be justified in the field. In the case of state foundations, the rules of operation are largely laid down in the articles of association, and here the rules are also considerably simpler than the existing rules. On the side of bureaucracy, for example, the obligation to set up a Creative Council for all performing institutions so far will be removed, and performance agencies will have the opportunity to enter into contractual relations with creative workers other than only a specific contractual relationship. I believe that this will give the theatre a wider opportunity to formalise their contracts. We would also, in our view, simplify issues relating to the recording and archiving of performances, obviously with regard to the development and simplification of the corresponding technical means. As regards the funding of performing arts, we propose to the honourable Riigikogu that in the case of foundations established by the state, we can rely on the objectives set out in the statutes and what the founder has set as expectations, and in the case of private and municipal institutions, state money can be applied for from the state budget and, on the recommendation of the Commission, allocated on the basis of criteria to ensure the diversity of the field of performing arts and regional accessibility of performances. This is an overview of the monetary framework. The types of grants to be granted to the performing bodies, the procedures for applying and the conditions for the assessment and designation of applicants would be laid down in a draft decree of the Minister responsible. For a more precise organisation of the sector, the aim of bringing the ministerial regulation to the level is operationality and flexibility, as the organisations involved in the field see that there are reasons to make changes, we should not always come to Parliament with these questions in order to amend the law. I would like to highlight one more important issue concerning accessibility. For those who are not directly concerned, this may seem to be an empty matter, but according to the draft law, there would now be a new obligation on the part of the performing institutions, namely to inform access via their information channels. This means that people with special needs should be able to assess their situation in terms of accessibility when they come to watch a show or some other activity. If accessibility is not guaranteed, it must simply be communicated so that people can make their plans. It is a small step, but I believe it is a practical and important step that could be of interest in this area. The new act of a performing institution is in line with the landscape of performing arts and we believe that it promotes fresh creative ideas, ways of operating and, of course, theatre availability in all regions of Estonia. As regards the law of the National Opera in this same draft, there is one technical amendment: improving the outdated publication mark. I would like to thank the honourable members of the Riigikogu for the cooperation that has been involved in drafting the draft. I'd be happy to answer your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U663	Thank you, Minister. There are questions. Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U664	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Minister of Culture! I welcome you to your new profession and wish you strength.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U665	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U666	And then we grab the bull by the horns. My question concerns amendment No 5 to the text of § 16, which reads: "The types of grants granted from the state budget to the performing bodies and the conditions and procedures for applying for the grant, the assessment of the applicant and the award of the grant shall be laid down by regulation of the Minister responsible for the field. " The Association of Performing Institutions has written in its address: "In order to ensure the stability, transparency and continuity of the funding of performing arts, the foundations of funding should come from the law. The regulation by the Minister can only contain technical details of funding. " Please comment!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U667	Thank you, good member of the Riigikogu. Thank you for your congratulations. Let me comment on this as follows: In the current regulation, we have two important criteria on which we can rely, these are accessibility and a substantive criterion. In previous practice, I have understood that it gives a great deal of room for interpretation, and it has, on the one hand, provoked disputes that have also come to court. However, no party seems to like this very much. As far as financing is concerned, I believe that bringing these decision-making processes to the level of the regulation and describing them there will certainly not reduce the certainty that performance agencies might feel about this regulation. When we talk about the level of this regulation, we will be able to spell out very clearly what are the criteria on the basis of which the Commission is taking decisions. The Commission is still largely made up of people active in the field, who are certainly very competent to evaluate the various projects and to take decisions on the basis of which the Minister can finally approve [the Regulation]. So I believe there's no way to give in to confidence here. We will clarify the situation in order to avoid possible disputes. And in the event that there is also an expectation of a change of regulation within this area, we do not always have to come before the honourable Parliament, but can, in cooperation with the ministry and the performance authorities, resolve this issue more effectively.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U668	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U669	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The main elements of the amendments to the draft under procedure concern the principles of evaluation and award of operating grants, the conclusion of a fixed-term contract and a contract of employment and the organisation of a public competition. Unfortunately, interest organisations disagreed with many of these changes. The previous Minister of Culture was unable to dispel the concerns of the members of the Commission, especially of my colleague Saaremäe, that the new amendments would only give the minister the authority to close the theater in a "flexibly" manner with a repertoire that was unsuitable for him. My question: have you been able to meet representative organisations and are you prepared to improve the draft during the procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U670	Thank you, Mrs. Stone, for this question. Yes, I have had the opportunity to meet and discuss these issues with the theatre people active in the field during this few three weeks, knowing that I am honoured in front of the Riigikogu today. Our vision, which is included in this draft, clearly contains such a principle: the state should not interfere excessively in the relations that the theatre leader has in his organisation. Perhaps the state should intervene as little as possible. We trust the heads of our performing institutions to make the necessary decisions in their employment relationships, repertoire and in everything else that they consider necessary in the functioning of their institutions. The task of the state here with this legal framework is to provide financial support because we know that theatres with their own revenues cannot bear all the costs. These percentages are different, and in the case of foundations, they remain at 40% to 50%. There are also lower and higher percentages, but it is obvious that state support here is very relevant and important. As far as the views of the theatre managers are concerned, yes, I have met both the same and the different approach. My limited experience now says that not all theatre leaders agree exactly on this issue. But indeed, here, my important task is to give you this assurance that state funding will not be damaged by the new system. Rather, we see that the red taped bureaucratic regulations that are in the old version of the law, or still in the current version, could be resolved by the leaders themselves in the future and the state could intervene as little as possible here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U671	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U672	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Minister for Culture, I would also like to congratulate you on presenting the first draft. However, I am also interested in § 16. These changes in funding principles are causing tensions. We know that money is a matter of tension. When I look at this regulation, you can clearly see that it is the face of national foundations. There are quite a few advantages for them here, such as that they want or do not want to receive a grant, but that they are granted a grant to everyone else. That's the first advantage. The second advantage is that, in the case of state foundations, there is no need to form a committee and it is not understandable who decides to fix much, but in the case of all others, a committee is set up to advise the Minister. Could you explain the reasons behind these great advantages and differences?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U673	Thank you very much. And thank you for your good wishes. Indeed, the state has taken up a number of foundations itself to ensure that we have performance institutions in different parts of Estonia, and as a founder, the state also has a great responsibility to these institutions. Of course, our interest is that performing institutions in other forms of ownership and operating in Estonia also receive support in order to diversify the theatrical picture. I dare say to you that, when it comes to different legal forms, be they a foundation set up by the state or an example from the private sector, both of them would still be those who would get their funding proposals on the Minister's table from the relevant committee. Perhaps this would be a criterion that does not really depend on the discretion of the minister, but on what the committee, made up of experts in the field, proposes, because it does this distribution of money. Yes, some criteria must be taken into account, perhaps also regional dimension or content, just as experts themselves establish it in cooperation with the Ministry. So I believe that one way or another, the state has a responsibility to the foundations it has created, but in the other way, the state should certainly give strength and support to those institutions that are not created by the state, but are created by some other founder.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U674	Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U675	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister, On this issue of money and funding, we will have a lot to talk about. But you mentioned in your reply that you trust the leaders of the theatres. I am interested in the first paragraph of § 5, which has also been pointed out by the Association of Performance Institutions. A little schizophrenic, where the theatre manager, who cannot be held responsible for the decisions of the creative leader, must be responsible for the entire theatre. Can you say anything about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U676	Yeah, well, that's actually a long way to go. If the theatre manager takes on a creative leader, they will probably have made their point, and the decision that the theatre manager has in formalising this employment relationship will hopefully form the basis for their good cooperation. There can certainly be situations where, say, creation and budget are colliding. It's quite possible. I very much hope that the authorities will still reach a very clear agreement among themselves, and there is no need for the country to regulate this issue. However, if the institution has such a desire, it is also possible to provide in the articles of association that, for example, the theatre manager himself also bears the role of creative manager. So if, for example, the board of the theatre or its foundation so finds and states in its statutes that way, it is actually possible that the two important functions are performed by one good person.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U677	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U678	Thank you. On my first question and your answer, perhaps I would point out that it is important for me here to understand that equal treatment is also important. Regardless of its ownership, it is established by the State or it is a private or municipal authority, they could all treat them equally. We also know artistically, don't we, many municipal or private performing institutions are also creatively better off than any foundation established by the state. But I would still have another question about this committee. The draft states that the Commission will be set up for this operating grant, but it will also be possible to provide targeted support for activities relevant to the development, national culture, regional impact or internationalisation of the sector. And in the case of this ad hoc support, the draft law does not establish a Commission. So who's gonna decide? The Minister personally, the Ministry's Theatre Advisor, or the respective Deputy Chancellor? How does this mechanism work?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U679	Thank you. This is an important mechanism. I believe that we must base all the financing decisions on making the decision as competent as possible, and that it should have been done by the broadest possible group. The situation here is that the Minister is going to decide whatever he wants, or that the advisor is going to put something together according to his own preferences, certainly is not going to be a real practice. I believe that the Minister can rely on the Commission on the issue that you raised, too, and it is, in the end, the Commission that will make the proposals. The Minister is not the person who should make such financing decisions himself. This can be regulated by regulation, and this is also a valid idea in this draft. We can rewrite all grants, which can also be granted at the level of this regulation, for example, by describing the application conditions, what the evaluation criteria are and what the whole procedure looks like. But to reassure you, it is certainly not reasonable to make those decisions on an individual level.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U680	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U681	Congratulations on my new job. Our expectations and hopes for cooperation are great. The question, however, concerns a nuance, which remained a little confusing in the Committee on Culture's session, when we dealt with this draft. Which interest groups have the Ministry already listened to by preparing this bill, and which others are scheduled to meet? Perhaps all the interest groups have been heard and have their opinions been taken into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U682	Thank you. Yes, indeed, the list of organisations invited to give their input here is quite impressive. Here, too, after receiving these proposals, the Ministry has made its comment. This coordination table, which comes with it, contains quite a number of ideas. The Association of Performance Institutions, the Theatre Association, the Association of Small and Project Theatres have sent their opinion; there are representatives of dance organisations and many other organisations. So I dare say, as one of the strong advocates of inclusion, that the circle of people and organisations that have been involved in this draft is quite large. If we think that this is such an important draft, precisely as regards the institutions and organisations active in the field, then I believe that everyone who has had a wish has had the opportunity to bring their thoughts here. And I believe that the Committee on Culture, which is also the leading judge of this draft, will certainly receive more signals, because, at some point, thoughts may come back to mind, and then we will have to let them know. We are also looking forward to very constructive cooperation with different organisations. If we need to explain any further issues, we are always prepared to do so. And, if there are any good ideas, of course, in the course of this draft, we will cooperate fully with the committee, I hope.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U683	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U684	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good Chairman! Good minister, congratulations then, yes! And you guys need cookies, and the cadrics are running. But that's my question. Well, public funding, of course, is stability. Now that he's going on these other bases, has the Minister given any thought to additional funding? Because if funding could depend solely on the discretion of the minister, there should be some kind of additional, i.e. either there would be a theatre tax or some other thing that would compensate for the part that might not fit into the Minister's vision.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U685	Thank you very much, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. And thanks for the heads-up, the cadristians already went to the Ministry today and were very intuitive. As far as financing is concerned, we are talking about an amount of 33 million here, and if we could find additional resources, I believe that this would be very welcome in the field. What do the revenue of the performing institutions generally consist of? In the same way, national allocations have been made, but, of course, ticket revenue also plays a very important role. It is certainly possible to earn funds in the budget with other, lower incomes as well. But I believe that the revenue from the ticket and the support from the State are rather the main and important instruments. When you said at the beginning of your question that funding will all go on new foundations, I dare assure you that this will not go on very much now. We would rather clarify the whole money-sharing process by means of a regulation, but it is probably not going to get any worse here. If the private sector wants to give support to the institutions, of course, this is possible in itself, but here is the situation where, in my opinion, we could be better and clearer in this process in order to avoid litigation in the future, as has been brought before us today with very narrow criteria. But we will do our best to ensure that the area gets the best possible conditions for cultural activity.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U686	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I ask Üllar Saaremäe to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U687	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear Riigikogu! Today, on several occasions, we have been called upon to describe what happened in the Commission in our own words. Well, that's not possible, because right now I have to go to the dialogue and it's full of pure gold, with my own words, you don't talk about it. The preparation of the draft Act amending the Law of the Performance Institution and the National Opera Act for the first reading took place on Tuesday, 12 October. Aadu Must and members of the committee Signe Kivi, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, Eduard Odines, Heidy Purga, Üllar Saaremäe, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi and Marko Šorin took part. Anneli Ott, Minister of Culture, Daniel Raudsepp, Deputy Chancellor of Arts of the Ministry of Culture, Karin Ligi, Legal Adviser to the Legal and Property Management Department, Theatre Adviser to the Arts Departments Laur Kaunissaare, and Advisers to the Minister Marta-Magdaleen King and Katarina Buddrik. The Minister of Culture said, as an introduction, that the aim of amending the Act on Performance Institutions is greater clarity and flexibility in the laws governing the field of performing arts. He also introduced changes, just as a moment ago the new Minister of Culture did before us today. Üllar Saaremäe asked for clarification on the abolition of the obligation to set up a creative council in force so far. Daniel Raudsepp explained that the obligation to set up a Creative Council would disappear because it is not practical for small performing institutions, especially private entities, to form a creative council, but if larger performing bodies want to own a Creative Council, it is not an obstacle, it is not a ban, and the Creative Council can still be formed. Heidy Purga referred to the Minister's regulation on the financing system, which was also mentioned on several occasions a moment ago, and asked whether the change of minister or political attraction could in this case endanger smaller performance institutions. Anneli Ott explained that the restrictive nature of the financing system in the current law is the existence of only one criterion, which creates a forced order. The flexibility of the regulation provides the direction of the most expected output from the performing institutions. The Minister agreed that there was always a political question or a nuance, but the level of the regulation is, in his opinion, better than the level of the law, for which it is not possible to react quickly as necessary. Daniel Raudsepp added that life is changing faster than the laws. The field of performing arts is very strong and there are also very strong representative organisations. In addition, the independent funding of the Cultural Endowment of Estonia ensures stability, especially in the field of private performance institutions. Laur Kaunissaare added that there is much more flexibility to gain than to lose the theoretical risks. At present, support for private performing institutions is also provided by a ministerial decree, but he also stated that there is a theoretical risk. Anneli Ott added that it is important to give the Committee on Monetary Affairs a broader set of criteria for evaluation, which will certainly add to diversity. Signe Kivi referred to Article 5 (1) of the Act of the performing institution, which states that the head of the performing institution shall ensure the performance of the functions of the performing institution and shall be responsible for the general status, development and the targeted use of the performing institution's financial resources. Issues relating to creative activities shall be decided by the Director on a proposal from the creative director. The stone said that, according to those who approached him, paragraph 1 was controversial and would cause confusion in their work. A manager cannot be responsible for his organization, because the development of performance institutions depends on 99% quality and repertoire, or creative. Kivi asked how the director could be responsible for the development of the theatre if he had to make decisions on creative activities on the basis of proposals from the creative leader. Anneli Ott replied that an in-depth dialogue had been conducted with the performing bodies in the drafting of the draft. The Minister confirmed that the Ministry left discussions with an agreement to amend the law. Daniel Raudsepp added that the law does not prohibit the CEO and creative director from being the same person. This is possible in practice. Whether it should be implemented, especially in the case of public foundations, is a question of its own. Signe asked if the question he asked had been a problem in the theatres. Aadu Black directed the question to Üllar Saaremäe, who replied that raising the problem is justified from the point of view of the theatre manager, that is to say, from the point of view of the financial manager, and in fact it should be dealt with. Saaremäe, in turn, asked whether the changes to the draft had really been approved by the leaders of all the theatres. Laur Kaunissaare replied that the changes have been approved by the Estonian Association of Performance Institutions as a representative organisation. According to Kaunissaar, the draft offers a solution that can be won rather than lost. Üllar Saaremäe mentioned that he was more skeptical and asked what assurance the new funding system gave the theatre leaders. Anneli Ott replied that if only ticket sales were to be used as the basis for financing, this would be counterproductive. According to the ticket sales, as we now choose a repertoire, there is a risk that performances of different tones will not reach the viewer. The Minister considered the diversity of the repertoire to be important and its reaching regional regions as well. The level of regulation provides an opportunity to set other criteria. Daniel Raudsepp added that negotiating with a representative organisation was a long process and, if you look at the state of the current law, the Ministry of Culture will also be required, as a result of litigation, to establish the methodology for evaluating theatres. Life has gone on, practice and expectations of evaluation are changes. By continuing with the current law, it will not be possible to provide certainty for the theatres so far. The problem is more in the current law, not in its new version. Eduard Odines asked which changes concern private performance agencies. Anneli Ott replied that state foundations are the responsibility of the state as owner and do not extend to private performing institutions. In the case of private performing bodies, the volume of support shall also be confirmed by the Minister on a proposal from the Committee of Experts and no political impact on the allocation of funding. The Minister confirmed that private performers will not be treated more harshly on the basis of the proposed changes. Daniel Raudsepp added that the overall picture would become clearer in connection with the proposed changes. The move to the level of the Regulation provides an opportunity to clarify the criteria, i.e. private performing bodies will see much more clearly what award criteria are and how they will receive support. It is a value in itself that provides knowledge and an opportunity to better formalise applications. Üllar Saaremäe referred to the Minister's claim that the financing system at ministerial level could also be directed towards diversifying the repertoire. Saaremäe asked for this point to be clarified. According to Anneli Ot, the explanation related to the fact that ticket sales are currently the main criteria for financing. The general playground is modest at regional level, playing performances that are full of entertainment and guarantee full halls. There is often no deeper and spiritually challenging repertoire. This is where the theaters have to make their choice. If funding criteria can be improved at the level of the regulation, the repertoire will also become more diverse. Daniel Raudsepp added that changes to the funding system give theatres a much more free choice of repertoire and, in certain cases, are not so much dependent on self-revenue. If we have a regionality criterion, it is not possible to get ticket revenue so well in certain places in Estonia. Üllar Saaremäe asked for clarification and speaking in the language of a simple person, whether if the new financing measure frees the theatres from bringing a lighter repertoire to the stage, let one Chekhov hit the other end, the Ministry will pay for the empty halls. Daniel Raudsepp replied that economic reality still needs to be taken into account, and this situation probably does not arise, so that the theatres are not expected to have their own income at all. Finally, Laur Kaunissaare said that the reality is rather this: the uniquely developed theatrical landscape, although in the case of private performing institutions, must be pushed to the limits of two criteria, which have sought to be inventive over the years, but this ingenuity has a limit which has also been established by the court. This is also the reason why the financing system needs to be changed. Then the debate on this draft ended. Aadu Black proposed that Üllar Saaremäe be appointed rapporteur for the Commission. Mr Odines presented his nomination as a Commission waitress. Signe Kivi said he would support Odinets, but he would not take part in the vote to appoint Üllar Saaremäe as rapporteur for the Commission. Mr Black proposed that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 10 November and that the first reading be closed. It was decided to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 10 November (consensually), to propose that the first reading be closed (consensually) and to appoint Üllar Saaremäe as the representative of the lead committee. Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, Aadu Must, Heidy Purga, Üllar Saaremäe and Marko Šorin were in favour and Eduard Odines was opposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U688	Thank you for this very substantive, interesting and timely presentation. You have questions too. Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U689	Thank you. You have introduced our protocol, but at the same time this protocol does not reflect all the details and nuances that were there on the ground. For example, there is no [note:] in this protocol, since the Minister was not able to answer any questions well enough, you proposed the possibility that you would send some questions to him and the Ministry in writing. Did you get the answers to your questions? And can we also, to some extent, send a signal that when ministers change, there is no reason not to answer the questions?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U690	Thank you very much, Honourable Asker. The question I sent did not directly concern the law on performing institutions, but the state budget and the remuneration of the [workers] or the creative people of the performing institutions, both the minimum wage and the average salary. Questions were sent the same night, no answers were received.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U691	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U692	Good manager! That's good. That's good. Today's the second time I've enjoyed that monoparticle. Excellent dictation and gestures, but a pause could have worn more on some spot. Really enjoyable. And the text is also very interesting for the characters who say what and who responds. We could work on that. But I'm gonna ask you a specific question. Here [the coordination table] states that the Association of Performance Institutions has proposed: "... that fixed-term employment contracts can be concluded with the actors for an unlimited period of time and an unlimited number without becoming permanent. " And it says here that these [term contracts] are suitable for both theatre directors and actors. But here on the other side of [the table] says "not counted." What does that mean? Is this a stupid idea or...? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U693	Thank you very much, good Peter, for your fine words. If you called it a monologue, I'd interpret it as a communication of dialogue. Thank you. But more seriously now. Since it is only today that this cord will be opened, and in the Commission we have not reached and have not been able to deal with it before, it is unfortunately quite difficult for me to respond to what points we are talking about and what has been taken into account. If you're asking for my personal opinion, it's different, but as a representative of the Commission, I don't think I can give it to you from this remote control. I can discuss this with you later when I'm done answering questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U694	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U695	Thank you, good Chairman! Happy Birthday, Very Happy Birthday! Well, he was yesterday, right, but right now, you're with such an important point in the remote. And, of course, congratulations to Madis Milling. Congratulations! It's her birthday. You see, we are still lucky at the Riigikogu that we have competence gathered with such a strong representation of actors. I'm asking a purely personal question. In your personal experience, if, for example, such a change would have come when you went to lead Ugala or when you were invited to lead Rakvere [theater], accept this position, would you have dared to accept [the offer] at that time, knowing that such confidence would be lost as if it were from the bottom? And is it more difficult today to find funding, extra money than at that time, in view of the corona?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U696	Thank you very much. Very funny question. This is the law of a performing institution; we can afford it, a good colleague and a friend. I understand you're asking me if I would have dared to accept the work of the theatre manager if there were a change like this coming up. If you didn't ask me that, I'll answer that question. I have to admit, in fact, it also gives me a certain ambiguity and a certain scepticism. Margus Allikmaa has expressed its views in a letter from the Association of Theatre Leaders. But as a risky young person, as I was, when I started to run the Rakvere Theatre, that risk hasn't gone away, and that risk hasn't gone away, I think I'd dare take it. It can't be that bad now what's going to happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U697	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U698	Happy birthday from this side too! But what I asked for concerns § 71. And this whole construction rests, as I understand it, on Directive 1999/70/EC. That was the background.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U699	Thank you very much. Everything is much clearer, yes. I'm gonna shoot an answer in the back pocket. Before 1999, the contracts of the actors were usually timeless. Some time later, they began to be converted into fixed - term ones. It was also useful for the theatre, because then they were not specifically linked to the same names, and the actor felt that he was free to move forward when the contract ended. I think these are the points or the questions you're tensely asking me.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U700	Good waitress, thank you. No further questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U701	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U702	I open negotiations and ask for a speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Group of the Isamaa Party, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubitsa. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U703	Honourable Riigikogu! Dear Minister, We have before us a draft law amending the act of the state administration and the law of the National Opera, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Minister, this must be a crisis of confidence, which I am trying to formulate now. We know that this bill was prepared for a long time at the Ministry. We know that the Act on Performance Institutions, which has been in force since 2003 and is largely based on its 1997 version, needs to be updated. We know that there is a lot of positive nuances about this bill, but there is also a major concern about this draft, which is about trust-or-non-issue. In the explanatory memorandum it is worded as follows: "The Minister of Culture is empowered by regulation to establish the types of grants granted from the state budget to the performing bodies and the conditions and procedures for applying for the grant, the applicant's assessment and the award of the grant. " It's like it's justified, but on the other hand, it's the same "but." The same can also guarantee subjectivity, or the minister, will depend on the life of the performing institutions. There may be a danger here that we can't look away from. If the minister is far from the theatre life or if he has his subjective favourites or if he definitely does not like some direction, can this be reflected in the funding of the performing institutions? According to the current version of the law. And it could be fatal for the performance agencies. After all, we have had examples of political life when certain politicians spoke directly that theatre A, B, C, N and O did not like, it could be shut down or not allocate financing. If such a politician is empowered by this law, then the whole society must live up to his taste. That's the danger. Of course, the first presentation of the draft at the Ministry of Culture level did not provide certainty. A meeting with the Minister took place on 12 October. It can be seen from the protocol that Anneli Ott, who was then a minister, did not give us any credit today, we also heard here about the details of the protocol that he was not going to interfere with the repertoire. On the contrary, the questioning term "diversification" was said to help diversify. However, from the point of view of the country's censorship, we are very sensitive and rather hope that this bill can be improved in this respect. Let the political taste of art stay away from the artisans. We need to ensure funding, not direction of artistic choice. Since similar concerns were also voiced by coalition ambassadors, especially the Reform Party, we hope that together we can improve this draft. That is the will of our group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U704	Thank you. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be represented by the Social Democratic Party Group Eduard Odinets. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U705	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. I will start with the same call by which Mr Viktoria concluded that, let us start working together, we will make this draft better and more acceptable to everyone than it is now. Clearly, we're talking about the financing of creation, art, theatre art. The objectivity or subjectivity of decisions made by the funder can have a major impact on the future performance of the artist. If it was a business project or something that we finance on a project basis from the state budget or, for example, from European funds, for which numbers, criteria and points can be recorded in Excel, it could be feasible. Here, however, we are talking about a number of subjective criteria, which are probably the same diversity, regional importance, and what things were all about here. That means you have to be very, very careful here. The same thing that several colleagues have referred to, and which has also sounded in the Commission, is how much remains behind the Minister's decision on how much remains to be decided by this advisory committee. Perhaps these tensions could be mitigated by not calling it an advisory committee of the Commission, but by calling it a funding committee, which prepares a draft decision for the minister, which the minister signs, just as very many foundations established by the state, who share state budget resources for business or other projects, do. The Minister shall verify whether the decisions have been taken on the basis of the correct assumptions, on a regular, regular and administrative basis, but shall not intervene in the decisions. However, this may happen, perhaps not with the current minister or with the next minister, but with the next minister. As Viktoria mentioned, we have heard such expressions as: how money can shut the art up. That would be one recommendation to think about, the role of this committee. As I mentioned in my question, not all grants, not all theatres or performance agencies, have this committee been created in accordance with this draft law. And here I come back to the same equal treatment that I referred to in my questions. My former manager of the small theatre is concerned by this very clear distinction between the private show agency and the foundation established by the state. I fully understand that if the state establishes a foundation, the state will be responsible for its well-being. At the same time, however, we must also recognise the people or the local authorities who, from their own resources and on a private basis, are setting up performance agencies. They also need to be reassured and supported. I see nothing wrong with a private, municipal and state-established showhouse competing with each other. So they offer better performances, better art, better outputs, not the way it was said here that Chekhov would come after Chekhov and the halls would be empty, but simply the law states that support should be given. My appeal, from which I began: we work together and try to do something in this bill that is acceptable to art critics, artmakers and politicians, who may sometimes be hurt by art. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U706	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. And now it is the case that the lead committee has proposed that the first reading of draft 419 be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 8 December at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 25th item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U707	Let's move on to item 26. First reading of draft law 479 on the ratification of the Treaty amending the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask the Riigikogu's speech chair... I'm sorry! I request the Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimitus to the screens of the Riigikogu via the Internet. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-24_U708	[[Remote connection]] Mr President of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, thank you for the opportunity to be before you today with a package of important drafts. The European Stability Mechanism, or the ESM known to us all, has been operational since 2012. And it has been a long enough time to assess and understand whether what was agreed following the 2008 financial crisis has worked as desired. In the big picture, the answer is yes. The crises have been resolved and new ones have been prevented. Certainly the most directly affected Cyprus, Spain and Greece as countries supported by the ESM, but the more indirect, positive impact of financial stability will certainly extend to the euro area as a whole, including us. Why is that important? This is unlikely to require any further interruption or clarification. Unfortunately, the euro area, which is in danger of stability, would also mean immediate and major problems for Estonia. The amendments to the ESM agreement that have been submitted to you today have been negotiated since 2018 and in Estonia this has been done within three governments. The last elements of the reform were tied together in the Eurogroup exactly one year ago, on 30 November 2020, when a substantive agreement was also concluded with the participation of Estonia and it was decided to submit the reform for signature. The agreement was signed in 2021, i.e. at the beginning of this year. Throughout this process, our negotiators have been guided by government positions, which have also been confirmed by the Riigikogu. The content of all the changes you are going to make today is in line with Parliament's mandate and approved positions. The three major changes concern, firstly, the establishment of a safeguard mechanism for the Banking Union; secondly, the modernisation of preventive instruments; and, thirdly, the clarification of the role of the ESM in the start-up cycle of support programmes. Firstly, the provision of a single defence mechanism function for the ESM Banking Union. The ESM will become the last resort to the Single Resolution Fund for banks. The euro area has certainly changed significantly over the last ten years. Since 2013, the Banking Union has taken a number of steps forward, a single banking supervision has been established, as well as a single resolution. The single resolution tool and, figuratively speaking, the ESM of the banking sector are a single resolution fund. In turn, the resolution fund funds are collected from banks, not through countries from taxpayers. Its target is set at 1% of covered deposits and the fund is expected to reach this level of approximately EUR 70 billion by 2024. It is a joint resolution within the Banking Union. The question has been asked from the beginning of the system, and it has been a question of how to proceed if the fund suddenly emerges in a situation where the needs are temporarily greater than the resources collected. In the fund's collection phase, the provision of this, let's say, last straw is on the shoulders of the countries. All, including Estonia, have promised to grant security loans in case of need. In our case, on the basis of the decision of the Riigikogu, it is up to 22 million euros. These instruments have not been needed. If the ESM changes enter into force, the security loan will cease to apply. If resolution is uniform, then a single last resort borrower is also needed. The logical choice fell to the ESM. Giving ESM a safeguard function is the biggest change in its content in the ESM agreement. It is a credit facility of EUR 70 billion to the Board managing the resolution fund. Loans under this limit shall be repaid by the Board within three to a maximum of five years. With the addition of safeguard mechanisms or the introduction of safeguard mechanisms, the instrument of direct recapitalisation of banks will also be removed from the ESM instruments. Perhaps, figuratively speaking, the riskier instrument under which the repayment of a loan was dependent on the ability of one bank is replaced by an instrument with a guarantee from the banks of the Banking Union as a whole. Another major part of the changes concerns the different instruments of the ESM, the conditional credit line and the additional conditional credit line. Neither option has been used for existing programmes. One of these reasons has been the uncertainty about the conditions to be met. Since then, there has been uncertainty about the arrangements for monitoring the duration of the loan, but there has also been a problem with the negative image attached to the request for assistance, the negative image attached to it. The amendments essentially standardise the conditions, also make the application process more transparent, simpler, probably less stigmatising, given that, in the case of preventative instruments, the initial assumption is that the loan will not actually be used. In the case of conditional credit lines, the Memorandum of Understanding is no longer concluded, the grant being granted on the basis of a request by the State and confirmation of intentions. In the case of a credit line with additional conditions, a memorandum shall be drawn up only in order to remedy the circumstances which preconditions were not fulfilled. The terms will be, as I said, standardised. The third set of amendments concerns the role of the ESM in the preparation of support programmes, including the assessment of debt servicing capacity during the implementation phase of the programmes, in the same way in the context of subsequent monitoring. While the European Commission has currently played a leading role in these programmes or processes, this will remain largely the case, but the ESM share will increase and the basis for cooperation, as well as the arrangements will be fixed separately in the Memorandum of Cooperation between the ESM and the Commission. Minor improvements include the requirement for euro area countries to continue to use the provisions on collective action in the bond documentation when issuing bonds, which require creditors to take decisions on all bonds at one stage. This step is important in order to facilitate the decision-making of possible debt restructuring and the implementation of these measures even before the ESM would be able to help. It will therefore provide the beneficiary with further debt servicing capabilities. The ESM amendments also create the possibility of creating a class of shares in the ESM, which would not directly require contributions to be made that would automatically decrease over time. This change has been made in view of the possible transposition of the European Financial Stability Facility (EFSF) by the ESM. And this amendment will, for the time being, simply create an opportunity to do so. Should the transposition of the EFSF become a real issue at some point, a separate decision of the Riigikogu will be necessary. Now I am going to say that all these changes to the ESM Treaty will not change the capital of the ESM, they will not impose any additional obligations on Estonia. Neither will the ESM's own decision-making procedures change. So everything that has so far been unanimous will continue to be so, for all, and for example, for the additional safeguard mechanism. The emergency procedure can still be used with specific restrictions that apply to it. The Parties' common desire and intention has been to complete ratifications by the end of this year, by the end of 2021, and to reach the launch of a safeguard measure at the beginning of 2022. However, in addition to ratifying the ESM Treaty, this requires ratification of the amendments to the SRF contribution agreement. We'll come to that later. In order for our national procedures to be able to function smoothly when dealing with ESM matters, the law on ratification and implementation of the ESM Treaty, which is also under discussion in Parliament today, also needs to be amended. The signed agreement has guided the negotiations and determined Estonia's positions. The government proposes to ratify the amendments to the ESM Treaty. I take this opportunity to thank the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu, which unanimously supported this proposal and unanimously gave its approval to the draft before you. Thank you. I'd be happy to answer the questions.
