ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the Tuesday session of the first working week of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to pass on drafts and enquiries? There is no request for referral of drafts or enquiries. Incoming check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U2	76 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 25.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U3	Let's go to today's agenda. Today we have one item on the agenda, the debate on the key national issue "Estonian Population Health Development Plan 20202030" initiated by the Committee on Social Affairs. I will briefly present the procedure for dealing with this item. First of all, the Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiige has a presentation, up to 20 minutes, and the time for questions and answers is up to 20 minutes. There will then be a presentation by a member of the Social Affairs Committee, Hele Everaus, as well as up to 20 minutes, and the time for questions and answers will be 20 minutes. Then Annika Veimer, Director of the Institute for Health Development, will give a presentation, up to 20 minutes, and the time for questions and answers will also be 20 minutes. Attention! Each member of the Riigikogu has the opportunity to submit up to two questions to each rapporteur, followed by negotiations. All members of the Riigikogu, representatives of committees and political groups can participate in the negotiations, but at the request of the Social Affairs Committee, I propose that the Riigikogu first speak with the representatives of the political groups if it is desired. At the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. Okay. Let us go to the debate on the item. I'm going to ask Minister of Social Affairs, Tanel Kiige, as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U4	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I am really happy to give an overview of the population's health development plan, which has been developed by more than 30 organisations, of course by all ministries and various interest groups and health partners. The intention to develop a population health development plan was first confirmed by the government already in March 2018. It can be said that this whole process, partly due to the Riigikogu elections in the meantime and the COVID-19 crisis, has lasted almost three years. But in the main, the population health agenda was completed at the end of 2018 when it was sent to official coordination, and in 2019, and in 2020 in particular, there were new formal coordination circles, analysis of proposals received, as well as additional document coordination. He reached the Government of the Republic on 6 February 2020 and in the meantime discussions have taken place in the Committee on Social Affairs of the Riigikogu (February 2020) and in November there was a population health development plan in the Committee on Population.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U5	Minister, I am so sorry, I interrupt you once. It's very bad to hear in the hall. Is it possible to speak very close to the microphone or to remove the mask? You can hear better.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U6	I don't know how you do it. [[Takes off the mask.]] I'd rather try without the mask than it's for the best.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U7	It's better.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U8	Okay. Well, luckily, since I told you the introduction, maybe I won't say it again. But it is true that the development of the population health development plan has been going on for several years, i.e. since spring 2018. In the meantime, there have been a great many coordination circles and improvements to the document. Last year there were discussions in the various committees of this Parliament, i.e. the Social Committee of the Riigikogu and the Population Committee of the Riigikogu. This was discussed by the current government on 6 February 2020. Due to the crisis in COVID-19 and other issues, this has been somewhat longer than usual. But this in no way reduces the weight and importance of this document in setting the main objectives for the next ten years and, of course, in promoting the health of the population. When we talk about the main challenges and differences facing Estonia, precisely what we stand out with in the European Union, unfortunately, this is, on the one hand, the life expectancy and, on the other hand, the inequality between women and men in this. [[Show slides.]] Let's look at these tents. I hope the members of the Riigikogu will see them. Women live in the European Union for an average of 84 years, 83 in Estonia. We can say that we are very close to the European Union average. If we look at the same number for men, these are 78 and 74. Maybe there's four-year-old scissors. They have remained constant over the last decade, but they have gradually decreased somewhat, but there is a difference. Perhaps even more worrying of this is precisely the number of healthy years that we have been talking about more and more. Speaking of a person's quality of life, the life expectancy of a person, most people are more important than just the number of years in which he or she can stay healthy for how long he or she can live independently, work and family life, and enjoy being active in society. Unfortunately, if we look at the bar charts, we can see that since the age of 50, both women and men (in particular men) have had very few healthy years in Estonia. The main part of their old age, retirement, is spent by the people of Estonia with health concerns, with health restrictions. Here is an example from Estonia, but as usual we like to compare ourselves with the Nordic countries. Let's get the Swedish numbers. In Sweden, life expectancy is only slightly longer than we have, for example, 84 years for women, but a significant part of it, over half of the last 30 or 40 years, is healthy. We, as I have pointed out, have the opposite of these scissors very clearly. We see the same tendency, as indicated, in the case of men. These are two places we definitely have to focus on. When we look at the life expectancy by county, we also see certain differences here. The average life expectancy in the counties is mostly on the upward trend. There are certain counties where it has even fallen slightly, but maybe compared to the unequal level of women and men, and compared to the healthy years of life, this picture is relatively uniform. The problem is, of course, those counties where we see a smaller number of life expectancy. This is particularly the case in Ida-Virumaa, where more attention must be paid to the living environment, to the possibilities of living in health, as well as to treatment opportunities, to any health problems arising from work or life choices. If we're talking about the same distribution in terms of years of healthy living, there are, as you can see, two trends. Firstly, the inequality between counties is clearly increasing, we compare Harjumaa with South-East Estonia and Ida-Viru County, for example. Similarly, there are unfortunately many so-called red lines. This means that we can see that the number of healthy years of life has not necessarily increased in all the reference bases, but has also fallen at times, which, given our small number of healthy years of life, is still particularly worrying and demanding. In fact, the objectives of the "Estonian Population Health Development Plan 2020 The aim is to increase people's life expectancy, but above all, I would put the 'bold' on its second point, i.e. that the number of healthy life years would grow faster than the life expectancy, and that is precisely the part of our life and life expectancy that a person can spend without significant restrictions on health. Of course, it is important that inequalities in health are gradually reduced by gender, regions and educational levels. We are not, of course, talking about bringing down indicators for better-performing counties and social groups, but, above all, about helping groups who have life expectancy and, above all, the number of healthy years of life, which is unfortunately low. These numbers are, in fact, well marked in this view, that if we think about the average retirement age, then if the number of healthy years of life is well below the current retirement age, there is a very strong contradiction in terms of planning a reasonable health and social policy. Now let's look at this first measure, the overall life expectancy. Here we have set a target for a gradual catch-up in the ten-year plan for the European Union average. For women, as I referred to earlier, the difference is smaller, maybe the overall persistence of today's trend is satisfactory. In the case of men, a positive shift would be needed so that this difference of four or five years would gradually become one or two years. Ideally, Estonia should also aim to ensure that the life expectancy of our people is equivalent to the average of the European Union and why not longer. We probably won't be there in ten years. Assumptions and perhaps problem areas are well known. There are very many deaths in Estonia, which are mainly due to indicators, cardiovascular diseases and malignancies. However, injuries and such deaths, which are preventable, are also very important, which often hit people regardless of age and perhaps at a younger age, then are poisonings, suicides, vehicle accidents, falls, drownings, fire deaths, freezing. We have set the target of reducing metrics by at least 20%, sometimes up to 80%. These are mostly, if not always, deaths that are avoided as a result of proper prevention, sensible behaviour and support for society. Of course, when we talk about cardiovascular diseases or malignant tumours, here we can talk primarily about volume depletion, we can talk about healthy living, or say, promoting healthy lifestyles, screening, prevention. But here you can have a realistic goal of reducing heart and blood vessel diseases in the order of 20% (acute myocardial infarction and cerebral vascular disease). In the case of tumors, the focus is on achieving a downward trend for people under the age of 65, a part of society where we have a greater backwardness compared to other countries. In addition, hepatic alcohol disease and diabetes, both of which we also hope to see a 20% reduction in deaths. This is what I described earlier, so that not only life expectancy would grow, but life expectancy would increase considerably. From these blueprints, you can see that, of course, we will not be able to reach that level in ten years, which you could say is satisfactory or good. This could be a minimum objective. The age of 62 for men and 63 for women is less than our average retirement age, but it is going to be at least that size. Although I have always said and will stick to the fact that the goal should certainly be that a person not only lives healthy until retirement age but still lives healthy for a considerable part of his retirement. Retirement does not have to be a period when people have to worry about access to doctors and access to medicines, but should be able to work more, travel and enjoy family and social life. There is no doubt that this trend, which we see here as a forecast, must continue as a target after 2030. The same inequality between regions as I referred to before. The goal is that on the one hand, the average of Estonia would rise and the major differences between the counties would disappear, so that we would first and foremost see a faster growth trend in these counties, which have the shortest life expectancy and even the lowest number of healthy years. The aim could be for us to remain broadly within two years of regional differences, so that there are no significant scissors in the counties in terms of life expectancy. The population health development plan consists of several programmes, three of them. As has been said, they have the same main objective: an increase in people's expected lives and working lives and a reduction in health inequalities. These specific programmes are a health-enhancing choice programme, a health-enhancing environment programme and a human-centred health programme. When we are talking about health-enhancing choices, the question here is how to promote and treat those choices that a person can make in order to shape his own habits and lifestyle. It is diet, exercise, reduction of alcohol consumption, withdrawal of tobacco products or other such decisions and steps, in fact enough sleep that a person can do to maintain his or her own health, promote his or her own health and reduce any possible need for treatment. The other side is a health-friendly environment, or everything around us. When we talk about the health effects of living environments, they are chemical, physical or biological risk factors, i.e. air pollution, noise pollution, any supportive or non-supportive environment, whether in terms of green areas, green areas, urban planning, it is also a place where state action, cooperation between different ministries, public authorities and all local authorities, can be very much done, so that it is precisely the environment in every sense, at home, at work and on city street and in the country as a whole, is health-friendly. The human-centered health programme, the third programme, focuses on people's needs and expectations, the possibility of providing safe, high-quality or more integrated health and social services. Why is it human-centred health care? I always stress that there is a huge difference here: we are not talking about patient-centred health care, but about human-centred health care. We are also talking about the well-being of health workers, social workers, all health care providers, job opportunities, safety, safe and supportive work environments. That, too, needs to be considered. Human-centred healthcare covers both service providers, doctors, health professionals, nurses and social workers, as well as people who are recipients of the service, they are customers or patients, depending on the type of service. In both cases, there is also an increasing need to look at how the social and health sectors, as well as the wider different areas of life, work together in order to reduce precisely this fall between the two areas, to reduce duplication, in terms of bureaucracy, when, at times, applications for certain benefits for persons with disabilities have to be made repeatedly in different areas: health, social, work. We have made it a priority to reduce it very clearly in our ministry. Of course, cooperation with other ministries, state agencies and local authorities is once again crucial here. That's what I'm going to do. Annika Veimer, Director-General of the Institute for Health Development, will be happy to discuss more specifically and in more detail the description of health indicators and the likelihood of achieving the objectives. I thank all the parties in the field of health, civil society organisations, social affairs, of course all ministries, state institutions and the parliament of the Republic of Estonia for their very good cooperation and for their very good proposals and input in compiling, coordinating and supplementing the population's health development plan. I hope, of course, that we will actually take the first steps towards the rise in healthy years and the improvement in health indicators. It is also not tired of repeating and stressing that contributing to human health is never just the task or opportunity of a ministry or a health sector, but can be achieved by raising the choices, decisions and awareness of all public authorities, ministries and, above all, of every person themselves. Thank you. I'd be happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U9	Thank you. Minister, there are indeed questions for you. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U10	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. We know that every person is unique and statistics make somewhat too much generalisation about human health. But my attention was drawn to two Estonian maps, comparing two periods: life expectancy and healthy life years. It turns out very well that the situation is relatively different from one country to another. As a minister, how would you explain why this is the case, or what you can do to make this data more uniform in Estonia, would somehow go in ascending line?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U11	Thank you for your question. Absolutely, we are actually seeing the same trend in quite a number of health and social indicators, including, for example, the proportion of people with disabilities across counties and the list of family doctors. We can see that this is sometimes due to the economic sectors that dominate the county, to the industries. I refer, in particular, to Ida-Virumaa, where there is inevitably more work that is physically debilitating, damaging to human health, where the living environment as a whole may not be so supportive and where the country needs to pay much more attention, which we are now doing with, for example, a fair transition fund, in order precisely to channel resources there to create new jobs that support human health and create a health-friendly living environment. For example, in the case of Ida-Virumaa, we are really talking about a fair transition fund, we are talking about both industrial development and, specifically in the case of Narva, the construction of a new hospital providing modern social and health services to make health services more accessible. This will inevitably play an important role in maintaining, maintaining and, to some extent, promoting human health. In particular, the state can do so with investments, of course, by means of different legislation, regulations, that what is specifically, for example, in construction or in the area of work, what can be the working environment and what it must not be? [Objective] is the prevention of all forms of occupational disease, the prevention and reduction of accidents at work, on which there is a great deal of emphasis and where, unfortunately, we continue to be in European terms, one could say, in a worse position than we could be. The second half of the coin is that the methodology, or evaluation, must also be as harmonised as possible. Since they are partly based on the subjective survey of people, partly based on health data, partly based on statistics, it is also necessary to ensure that perceptions and methodologies are as comparable as possible so that there are no differences between counties which, after that, are not really justified by 'health indicators' or official statistics. These are the main places. But, above all, awareness, the working environment, the availability of health services in the home area, and, as I mentioned earlier, the whole health-friendly living environment, these are the ones that need to be addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U12	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Please tell me where this bottleneck is, that we are still talking about cardiovascular diseases in public health terms year after year, and they are still at the top. We have made enough information in our opinion and tried to develop people's self-preservation skills to avoid these threats, to create many opportunities for mobility, etc. Where's the neck of the bottle that we can't get over this hump?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U14	Thank you very much for your question. You hit a very important nerve. Absolutely, in the field of health, we know that cardiovascular disease is cause of death number 1, followed by malignant tumours. When asked what are these main concerns, they continue to relate to the same indicators: wrong diet, lack of exercise and, in fact, alcohol abuse. These main three, I'd like to bring it out. After all, the Ministry has developed a Green Paper on nutrition and movement, which in the same way deals with these places, with proposals on how to encourage such reasonable health-enhancing dietary choices from a low age, or school age, as well as a lifelong view that movement is likely to provide you with significantly better health than, for example, sitting behind a computer from morning to evening. Perhaps diet and exercise are the main places and, of course, the reduction in alcohol consumption. In the case of alcohol, we have seen a certain trend of stabilisation in recent years, a downward trend has been replaced by stability, which could be interpreted as satisfactory, but given that this stabilisation has taken place at a high level, it really cannot satisfy us. In the case of alcohol, we need to move forward, closer to the less harmful levels offered by the WHO in the case of alcohol consumption per person. We're a long way from that. Annika Veimer will tell you more about this later. Nutrition, movement, alcohol consumption, the director of the Institute for Health Development can certainly complement these concerns. When we talk about the quality of health services, Estonia has been in complete competition with Europe or the Nordic countries. Of course, there are issues of accessibility by county, including by specialties, but rather, in many ways, it is to promote and support people's daily life choices. I think there is a great deal of emphasis to be placed on children and young people, not to forget the older generation, but it is important that, at least, the growing generations take this reasonable movement and diet as a health care option rather than a forced choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U15	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U16	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress. I might ask in the key to the healthcare system about this development plan. These objectives and the mapping of the problem are all understandable, clear. The question is, how do we get there and how much this road costs us? It is clear that changing people's habits, better health behaviour, etc. are not in themselves very costly things. The question is more about how to get there. But what reorganisations in the health care system do we really need to achieve these same goals? How can we secure human capital, where do we take these missing sisters and other staff? Can't we have some potential for exporting health services? All that stuff about it. And where will we still find these missing hundreds of millions to fund the health care system?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U17	Thank you very much. Now there were quite a few questions, let's go in a row. When we talk about health staff, it is understandable that they will not be trained in one day or one year. We have increased the admission to medical education at the University of Tartu as well as to nurses' studies at universities of health care. It's been done over the last few years, I'm not just talking about my own reign. Gradually, it can be said, there has also been a decline in the emigration of health professionals to Finland. These are important gauges. The gap between the hole and the void that has been created will not be filled in one day. The trend is that there are no longer such large scissors between the number of health workers who are coming on and reaching retirement. But there are a very large number of people who have left Estonia to work in another country. Certainly, their possible return to healthcare is one of the key points. These are people who have already completed training when we're talking about doctors, then six years plus four years of residency. It is a ten-year, sometimes longer-trained person; its return is a much faster victory for the state, especially if it is simply to increase the volume of training. When we talk about access to healthcare and how to ensure that, at least in case of a shortage of nurses, the service is close to home and as quickly as possible, there is a great deal of cooperation here. At the first level, health centres have been set up with the support of European money to ensure that as many as possible teams work together in the field of health: family nurses, family doctors, physical therapists, midwives, nursing care providers and often more psychiatrists. There are also dental clinics and pharmacies. As many of them as possible should not be centralized into large centres, but scattered across Estonia, but brought together somewhat within counties and municipalities. It provides a better opportunity to cover one another, and it also very clearly encourages and motivates young people to come to work. I myself have spoken and communicated with young family doctors, health professionals. There are not many admirers of single practice, they want to put together a team, they want to get a vacation, a replacement if necessary, to ask someone for advice, to exchange ideas and, of course, to have a modern working environment. That's what health centres offer. The other half is the entire hospital network we're working on to upgrade. The integrated hospital network development plan should also be completed in the coming years until 2040. Here I also look much at European Union funding, it is the construction of a Tallinn hospital, it is, as has already been pointed out, the establishment of a new Narva hospital, these investments are investments in other general hospitals, central hospitals, regional hospitals. All this infrastructure is important in this sense that people have the motivation to work in Estonia, to have a modern working environment and conditions. Now this part of the funding. This is undoubtedly the most complicated. I'm the one on the left of my worldview here. As the first simple proposal, I would say that the tax system needs to be reviewed, the way in which health insurance funds are collected needs to be reviewed. Currently, the majority comes from employment contracts; a small part comes from the state, i.e. compensation for the health insurance of non-working old-age pensioners. There are a number of business revenues and other employees' revenues which are not subject to a health insurance tax, which could be done in some respects. There is also the possibility of increasing the country's contribution directly to the health budget. It is true that when we talk about Estonia's 6.6% GDP, we are significantly behind the European Union average (9-10%). There is no way you can count on the efficiency of the system if you put 20% or 25% less money there than other countries. If we look at this 6.6% distribution in turn, then within it, the country's own contribution is in fact 4.9% of GDP, the rest being human ownership. Perhaps the level of self-responsibility is already high, nor can it really be increased. If we wanted to reach 9% or 10%, leaving the state's contribution the same, this would mean that people would have to pay half of all healthcare services that are not conceivable. This would mean very high inequalities in health indicators and in access to services. We still need to move on the path of increasing the state's contribution, whether through taxation of various business revenues or people's incomes by means of a health insurance tax or through the provision of additional state operating grants or subsidies to the budget of the Health Insurance Fund. As is the case for pensioners, for example, for children who do not work, who do not pay social and health insurance contributions, the state could also have a "secure unit" for the budget of the health insurance fund, for example, on the basis of a minimum wage or some other measure. These are a couple of suggestions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U18	Tõnis Mölder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! First of all, you must be commended for making such a thorough and long review and indeed for answering the questions well in substance and in detail. I think that three criteria are important in health care: quality, accessibility and labour force. Of course, money is needed to secure all of them. But when we look at the last year, last year, 2020 the COVID crisis may have led us to reevaluate these criteria a little bit. My question is what this last year taught us. Life has shown that we may have money, but if we do not have labour and quality, only money will be scarce. What did this last year teach us in this light?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U20	Thank you. That's a good question. During the COVID-19 crisis, from, I would say, between February and now and in the coming months, my main concern in the area of governance, social and health care and work is how to ensure that all people have access to services, not just to deal with the COVID-19 crisis. I do not want to contrast these two, they must be done at the same time, there should not be a situation, as actually happened temporarily in the spring, when, due to the outbreak of a pandemic, ignorance and lack of personal protective equipment, planned treatment had to be restricted and closed, i.e. reduced access to other health services. It's such a key place, we don't want to do that this time. When preparing for such crises, it is really, I think, necessary to look at what these opportunities are to protect this most valuable resource, the health care professional, to create a pool of personal protective equipment, or to test the ability of hospitals, such as the rapid tests of Cepheid or other providers of such drugs, to be able to immediately verify health protection, the fact that a particular patient is infectious and does not bring the disease into the hospital environment. Similarly, of course, very good cooperation between hospitals is important. Here I want to acknowledge all health institutions in Estonia, the Northern Medical Headquarters and the Southern Medical Headquarters. The crisis was clearly not just for itself, but was still seen as a challenge for society and the state as a whole. You could say, as Professor Peep Talving has said as Head of Northern Medical Staff, that they were able to operate the entire Northern Estonia ward fund, perhaps there was no record that there were so many places in my hospital, so many in your hospital, you see how you can. There was a very clear understanding that patients were sent to places where there were also health professionals. In fact, the redistribution of patients between counties is much easier than the redistribution of healthcare workers who have their own families, who have their own lives, who have other responsibilities to society and health care institutions. Of course, this has also been done, including health professionals, nurses, whether they have changed professions or part-time health workers. But I am glad that we have not had to go quite the way in this autumn crisis, like very many countries where scheduled treatment is severely restricted, choices are made for those who receive healthcare that cannot. We've been able to secure both at once. The role of the state, the role of funding here has been crucial. Spring, you were right to say, it got the plans mixed up, but there was fast financial support. I thank Parliament for supporting both government decisions and the adoption of an additional budget. Similarly, we have now decided in the autumn to mobilise additional funds from the health fund's reserve capital in order to support healthcare workers who are dealing with COVID-19 patients and to pay the salaries of vaccinees. After all, these are all additional activities compared to the standard of care, the standard of care. I'll finish another number. The visibility of the COVID-19 crisis in society is, of course, greater than in other health issues, but it is understandable that more than one million people in Estonia need and receive healthcare every year. In fact, the so-called array that needs help, and whose failure is, could be said to be cataphal, is several times greater than the number of COVID-19 patients. Similarly, the financial allocation. When we talk about the Health Insurance Fund's budget, 1.7 billion next year, about 100 million of it will be direct and indirect costs for COVID-19 and 1.6 billion will be all other health care services, their availability to the population, incapacity sheets, sickness benefits, medical equipment, the purchase of medicines. This is the point of finding a balance within the health sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U21	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U22	Good manager! Good waitress! Here are two beautiful coloured maps: life expectancy by region and healthy life [years]. There's something weird going on. That's the conclusion. On the one hand, the best place to live is Läänemaa, because there is the shortest time to live sick, 20 years or 21 years. The worst situation is, according to it, in Võrumaa: over 30 years, 32 years I think you have to struggle before death comes. This first map, the life expectancy, I think is adequate, but I think the second card, the healthy years of life, is not adequate. In the Committee on Populations, we also wrote a letter to the Committee on Social Affairs that this is based on a survey and that these databases may not be very large. Light up a little how healthy living time is valued in Põlvamaa, Läänemaa or Harju County, for example, and whether these differences, which are very large, are actually adequate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U23	Thank you for your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U24	Thanks for asking. Very important observation. I actually referred to in my reply before once that there is no doubt a little more subjectivity in it. If we want to equalise this picture of the counties, we need to make sure that the methodology for conducting and evaluating the surveys is equal. There are certain objective differences when we talk, as has been pointed out, about a particular county where there is more work that is harmful to health, and there are areas where the number of years of healthy living can inevitably be objectively expected to decrease, accidents at work, occupational diseases, other such damage to health. There are also regions for which objective reasons are difficult to raise. There is a certain similarity here, perhaps, to the fact that there is a higher proportion of people with disabilities in South-East Estonia than in other counties. Here, too, we need to look and assess whether this is due to the average age of the population, the demographic structure, it is linked to some of the previous life choices or, in particular, to the issues of the living environment that no longer exist objectively. Of course, it is also a question of methodology. If you study this map thoroughly, as you did, you will certainly see in the example of Läänemaa that there are very large fluctuations in different years. Having studied sociology (not graduate of this specialty), I am quite convinced that it is not possible that in a few years the number of healthy years will change by six years. In the present case, the fall of six years has been within a short period. There are also certainly methodological questions in here, they are due to the selection or the survey. I think the Director of the Institute for Health Development can answer that question more thoroughly than I do.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U25	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U26	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, Minister, thank you very much for your thorough presentation. It was very interesting to listen to. But what was in the ear of many diseases, be they cardiovascular diseases, be they malignant tumours, cirrhosis of the liver, etc., was alcohol consumption. I understand from what you've said that you've been against reducing alcohol excise duty. But if it was a coalition treaty, why didn't you say your word there? How can you fight alcohol damage in the future? If we look at who is most affected by alcohol and its price, they are still young when we think about the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U27	Thank you for your question. Indeed, I believe that alcohol should not be available in terms of price or places of purchase. Indeed, in Estonia, compared to the average wage, alcoholic beverages are relatively readily available, which inevitably also contributes to a relatively high consumption number. When we are talking about reducing the availability of alcohol and alcohol, there is, of course, one of the criteria here, and also, for example, the restrictions on sales in shops that have already been put in place in the past, or the separation of alcohol, in order to reduce the excessive consumption of impulse purchases and perhaps people who are already addicted or addicted. For those who go to the store with a plan to buy bread, cheese and milk, but also come back with alcoholic products in their basket, such measures work on the basis of international experience, they reduce impulse behaviour. Overall communication, awareness raising among young people, older people and middle-aged people is certainly important. In the case of alcohol-related health damage, I know, there has been a great deal of talk about cardiovascular disease, liver alcoholic disease, but in fact less has been said, but it is also important, the effect of alcohol abuse on malignant tumours. Maybe there's more of these places of risk. Before, we referred to specific diagnoses. The first box I showed you was injuries, poisoning, suicides, accidents, falls, drownings, fire deaths and freezing. I think that, unfortunately, we all know well that here too, excessive alcohol consumption and the health problems caused by alcohol have played an important role, just as in cases of violence, it is family violence, it is street fighting or any attacks, as well as murder cases, where alcohol has been a direct factor in committing the act. So it is not possible to overestimate the effects of excessive alcohol consumption, overexploitation, abuse in Estonian society. They are still very significant.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U28	Thank you, Minister. Unfortunately, the time allowed for answering questions is over. I apologize to all the questioners. If you have quick fingers, you can ask questions to the following performers. But let's keep going. I would like a member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Speaker's Office, Hele Everaus.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U29	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Drinks water.]] The subject is so exciting that the cucumber started to dry. Otherwise, I can't tell you what I'm talking about. Ten years ago, in December, the last discussion in the Riigikogu was about the health of the Estonian population. Then there was the development plan for the years 2009 to 20200, which took place in this light. I am pleased that very serious work has now been done to move forward with the development plan for the health of the Estonian population for the years 2020 to 2030. The Committee on Social Affairs has discussed this several times: last February, September and December. The cancer control plan directly linked to the development plan, which was being carried out, but is already in the public debate, we have also discussed and held a public hearing to discuss the availability of cancer treatments and medicines. The Minister gave a very thorough and constructive overview of all aspects. There is certainly an extremely important role to play in prevention and the risks of disease, but as a doctor, I dare say that even if we were to do all these things and no one would do anything wrong, disease would, unfortunately, come. Unfortunately, nature is smarter than we are. This means that we also need to look at the health system, the whole side of how we can deal with them when we have problems. In fact, it is also important to think about the starting position by moving forward with the health development strategy so that it can truly work. What's the starting position? The reports by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, together with the European Union, which came out in 2019, dealt with a number of aspects that, I think, we should think about, and not just think about, but also think about how to proceed, because without it, all kinds of strategies do not make sense. Let me give you some examples. I certainly can't bring everything before you, but I'm still going to look at some aspects. As a reminder, this has been done before the pandemic, right, you see, it was the end of 2019, it's for the previous period. How does an Estonian person assess his or her medical condition? 53% of the Estonian population thinks that their health is good. In the European Union, the same result is 2/3. Self-estimated health: "bad" 14.6% of the Estonian population give such an assessment, the European Union average is 8.7%, Finland is 5.7% and the incredible 2.3% in New Zealand. Of course, self-esteem also makes a logical difference between age groups. Of the population aged 16 to 44, 81.5% of the population has approved their health. Very well, that's great. On the other hand, only 17.6% of the over 65-year-olds (i.e. when we get there, it is also very good) think of their health. Income inequality is also significant: 3/4 well-serving and well-living people say that their health is well. At the same time, there are only 1/3 of those on low incomes who can argue the same. Some indicators, which very significantly indicate the health situation in different countries, are the multipliers of preventable and avoidable mortality. This is where we have room for improvement, both of which. Both indicators are higher than the European Union average. The mortality rate per 100000 people in Estonia is 262 and the average in the European Union is 161. We have 143 and the European Union average is 93 - the treatable part of avoidable mortality, which actually shows the ability of the health system and its ability to cope with health problems. There was talk of ischaemic disease here. There is a very important trend for the better, but still these figures are more than twice as high as the average in the European Union. I mean, death from ischaemic heart disease. The incidence and death of new tumour types such as prostate cancer, gastrointestinal tumours and mortality due to chronic liver disease have increased. In addition to these chronic problems, we still have problems with infections, and there is nothing positive about the pandemic. With regard to the immunodeficiency virus, Latvia went ahead for a moment, but we are still the first in the first place in the European Union, not the most delightful first. It's the same with TB infection, it's been reduced, but we're still leaders here. Sadly, treatment-resistant cases, which are quite fatal, are 25% of them. There is a very large difference here: 3.8% is the European Union's average. Quality indicators for treatment. We talked here about doing everything very well. Hopefully, yes, but one indicator: for example, 12 out of 100 patients admitted to hospital with myocardial infarction die within the first 30 days in Estonia, the European Union average being 9. Of the 100 stroke-diagnosed patients who are admitted to the hospital, 17 die in Estonia during the first 30 days, while the European Union average is 12. This means that there is room for improvement in quality. Insurance protection would need a lecture on its own anyway, but that's what we all know what this is, 94%. It's really not that bad. However, there is a problem with access to [treatment]. Estonia has the largest number of unmet needs in the European Union, 11.8% is the figure, the European Union average is 1.7%. And that's mostly based on a long list of treatments. Boston's famous professor [Regina] Herzlinger says that you see, friends, getting on the order of treatment is not yet the fact that you will be treated. In fact, during this period, we may lose a great deal not only in health but also in lives. Unfortunately, the health system cannot keep us waiting. The Health Insurance Fund has set limits on a maximum period of six weeks to get to a specialist, for example. Well, in a good case, it comes true in 55% of cases when people are trying to get there. On average, you can have hip surgery in Estonia in 391 days. It's not just days, it's every day with a lot of pain, 391 days. The OECD average is 161; Finland has 99, 104 days in Hungary and 29 days in Denmark. For knee surgery, the person in Estonia will receive in 564 days, the OECD average is 227, Finland has 98 days, Hungary has 145 and [Denmark] 48. Here's the point of thinking. Of course, the situation is very sad with the cost of long-term care, which is 5.9% of all health costs in Estonia, and the European Union average is 16.3%. The accident is also that nursing care, where we have seen major problems, is not actually provided with medical care. This means that these people are at times far removed from medical services. This report also states that around 42% of the 65-year-olds and older people are at risk of poverty and social exclusion. I don't know how many of us are here together. Well, then we can split it up, see who gets in or out of here. There are also people in this hall who are 65 or older. The European Union average here is 15%. It was already said that we had few doctors and sisters. Yeah, it's a long-term process. And there is little, not only for the sake of those who went away and came back, but they have simply been taught too little at all times. The training order has not been adequate for one or the other. So, in fact, there is a separate question here, which the National Audit Office pointed out that we are practically now outside Tallinn and Tartu [do not have enough] and soon it will become very critical. People are no longer interested in a primary doctor because they simply do not have doctors. We were talking about money. Yes, Estonia does not spend too much on health care for its people: 1559 euros a year, which is half the European Union average and represents 6.4% of the national product. So right now we have a stake of 24%. A separate issue is, in fact, how to finance it. This is another issue that we could discuss for a long time. I think there are countries to follow. For example, in 50 years Singapore has become the sixth country in terms of health outcomes from the poorest country, which has adequately solved the problems of financing and organisation of the health system, not to mention Switzerland, etc. Okay. I'm coming back to the Health Development Plan. What did the same report say about this? 2009/2020. The first population health development plan in force in 2004 had very beautiful objectives, but no strategic planning measures or accountability mechanisms were put in place. Therefore, Estonia failed to meet certain objectives of the population health development plan, including patient satisfaction indicators. The same was noted by Praxis in its interim analysis of the same development plan. The general objectives of the development plan are central to Estonian health policy, but in their general terms, there are no solutions and strategic guidelines for policy making. This development plan was not a locomotive for important changes in Estonian health policy. That's very thoughtful. I think it is important to learn from these aspects, and we will certainly do so, all together. I strongly recommend that you read (who of course wishes to read, but I think it concerns everyone) the report by the Centre for Monitoring Development on the Future of Estonian Health. Scenarios until 2035'. It is rarely thought that a new and very important source of economic growth could be better health for people in Estonia. According to McKinsey's recent analysis, the Estonian national product would gain a whole tenth if premature mortality and people remained on the labour market longer. That makes sense. The ability to work is increasing, the economic contribution is rising. Investing one euro in health returns 2.4 euros, rounded out, of course. It's an economic view, but a person himself could get 28 whole days of his life every year. The Estonian social protection system is most similar to the liberal social protection system and so far the financing of health insurance has been based on a narrow income base, i.e. only wage-based payments. already the design is such that it is very sensitive to the recession, but also to the ageing population. The report by the Monitoring Centre for Development points out that we are already in deficit with our health insurance budget, which is getting worse from year to year, because this budget cannot in any way cover the costs that increase every year. By 2035 this deficit will amount to a minimum of EUR 900 million. The own contribution could be increased if it wanted to cover this deficit up to 50%. So our healthcare financing system is unsustainable. The way we are going to meet all the objectives of the strategy is very, very much linked to it. But money alone is not the solution. It is the system that works in cooperation, integration, at different levels. After all, the health system is really for people and it must work with people, not only to improve health, but also to create benefits that are not directly related to health, such as trust and economic benefits for bystanders. We cannot seriously talk about health and the right to health without good quality assistance. So in essence, it should be the first and important measure of the 21st century health system, whose dimensions are safety, efficiency, patient-centredness, optimal timing and fairness. What is our health system's quality policy? I don't know if there is, even though I've been working as a doctor for a long time. The Estonian Health Insurance Fund has tried to fill this gap with its audits, but this is not what is really needed. There is no way to move forward without the implementation of the new strategy. Even this aspect of how treatment errors are addressed. It's like we don't have any. It's just not possible. A sick person is actually defenseless. For years, it has been said that Estonia needs a non-formal patient insurance system, but it still does not exist. So, we still have to say that if we want to start meeting the objectives, or move towards a high-quality healthcare system, towards a system that really improves health and creates trust and economic benefits, it is a primary political decision, not a technical one. How have the sick really been involved in shaping health policies that have actually become the rule elsewhere? Practically not at all. We're still asking what's wrong with you, not what's important to you. High-quality medical care, you wouldn't need it without it. As the French say, the son of a bitch d'être, that's why it's inside. The COVID pandemic will undoubtedly have a long-term impact on all health systems, including our own. As politicians, I think that we, and politicians at all, need to look for answers to a lot of questions. Even so far, the focus has been on non-infectious diseases, which were estimated to account for 75% of deaths by 2030. We don't know that today. How can we act in a new situation? In the meantime, we may have forgotten about infectious diseases. HIV, immunodeficiency virus, came and stayed, 1985, remember, but there's still no vaccine. What COVID is doing, we don't know yet. There are a number of questions in the air. Are health care systems managed on the basis of costs and costs or what would be reasonable that this is an investment? Will the global average cost of health care, the contribution to health care, remain the same as elsewhere, 10% of gross national product, or will it grow? Is there an important shift in the prevention of diseases, including the prevention of infectious diseases? What will be the attitude toward older people, young people, people with disabilities, people with mental disorders, especially given that these problems are increasing? I would dare say that if the systems work and there are many, in different forms, it is not just a lucky accident. They must be designed, designed and built. All those in the healthcare system need to think at the same time: those in need, those who provide health care, doctors-sisters, professionals, organisations that provide healthcare professionals with infrastructure and resources, such as hospitals, clinics and nursing homes. Of course, also the political and economic environment, the regulatory, financial mechanisms, tax systems, market conditions, the conditions in which these organisations can best provide infrastructure to health professionals and, through this, to all of us who need help. In other words, the approach to health care should be systematic in order to understand how individual parts work, but also what synergies can be created with the links between them. This is the only way to improve the value of healthcare. I wish all of us every success in this, especially in the key to the development plan that we are discussing today. This is our important responsibility. Do we give priority to health? We have clearly had priorities for gaining recognition of independence, national security and economic development. But I think it is high time to raise Estonian people's health and health care alongside them. Finland did so after the winter war. Churchill said the biggest asset in one country is a healthy citizen.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U30	Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Tõnis Mölder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, first of all, thank you very much for making such a report on behalf of the Commission. It was good to hear a daily practitioner talk about health care, medicine, as you can see. Like I said, you're a practitioner, and you know how to look at it on this side. Give some good advice, specific advice to people on how to change your health behaviour and habits, so that we, as people who first take responsibility for our health and only then do so by doctors, can get closer to the goals set out in this development plan and, for example, in five or ten years' time, we can really enjoy our healthy people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U32	First of all, thank you for your noticeable words. Thank you very much. It's still good for a person to hear someone speak well, isn't it? But I think I'd get a Nobel Prize if I said it was those things and those things that would keep you safe forever. First of all, you have to be healthy, you have to be healthy your parents, so you have to have a lot of things genetically coordinated, so that this place is like this. I guess all these general things aren't lies. But now, fortunately, not only in the treatment of diseases, but also in the prevention process, we have come to know the risks that someone is exposed to, especially those he must avoid. I think it's a real future. I probably don't, but I think the younger ones see how the family doctor gives advice on the basis of the genetic "platform" where these things are highlighted. The gene store has been working on this for a very long time, and there are very specific things. So that's one thing. But all these things that they talk about all the time are true. But make people do it! Colleagues, we have had such a great deal of concern as to whether or not we have to wear a mask, although we know that we can prevent a certain infection with it. And then tell me what we're gonna cancel, all right? Well, what's the sweetest thing for anyone? Anything can be canceled. But I'm saying there's no universal approach here. Anything can be done, but it can be done normally. I can't say we have to stop living to be healthy. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U33	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U34	Thank you very much. It's a pleasure to hear top professionals talk about it, talk about it on the basis of their experience and in a variety of ways. I really liked the fact that not only were assessments made of one thing or another, but it was a enjoyable comparative method of how others have and where there is something worse or better. Here's a little question. We always want to know whether our closest neighbours Latvians and Lithuanians are worse or better than us. In this context, I would ask whether we have also compared our strategies, dreams, wishes and predictions with those of the Baltic neighbours and whether we can understand things in the same way whether we are going in the same direction or whether we are significantly different in some respects.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U35	Thank you for your question and thank you very much for your good words. I think it's the same question as when we had this independence, it was thought that we had the same thing, wasn't it, that we were all the Baltics, and we were doing everything the same. Everyone has done a little bit in a way, but, to sum up, we can say that there is one goal for all the health systems in the world, so that in each country a person is as healthy as possible, healthy and if he is in trouble, he can get the best help. These ways to get there are different. There's no ideal here either. In the big picture, I'm telling you, we don't have any differences. Look at the tables where these numbers are: we're in quite the same place there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U36	Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U37	Good President! Dear waitress, first of all, thank you very much for being very thorough and human-centred. But in recent times, the number of people who do not want to fulfil the obligation to wear masks has come to the eye and who point out that this limits their rights and benefits has not been proven. What do you think explains is that people do not trust official information channels and believe alternative sources of information? It's actually a question of what's wrong with them.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U38	[[Laughing.]] Why don't people believe? It's not people at all, and we don't think we're gonna be infected by the COVID. We don't believe that in this hall, do we? If one day we have to remain self-insulated, we will understand that it may be very close. It's human to deny that no, it doesn't concern me. Obviously, it's like a defense mechanism, and it's given to us by nature, that it doesn't have to think all the time about the problems that might come. But we ourselves have also done a lot of 'good' at political levels by saying very different things at very different levels and perhaps not always from the whole level of competence. I think there's nothing wrong with people, they're just people who want to understand. It's our failure to do it if we can't make it clear. I can't give you a better answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U39	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U40	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, it is always very enjoyable to listen to you, thank you. When we talk to you on quite a number of occasions on health issues, we have come to the point that a person can do a great deal for his own health. But my question is how you see what the country can do to influence people, so that they can still take themselves, say, out of the belly of laziness and do something for themselves. Can you make any good suggestions, what should the country do?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U41	Thank you for your good words first. That's a good question. If he knew the answer, it would be easy, it would have been a long time ago if it were easy. There's nothing a country can do here alone. It's all actually a long process of development, it's all starting from home. I totally agree that gyms and all this is very good, but for every activity, physical exercise is important, it is not just sport. We have forgotten that a young person can do certain things since he was a child. I have grown up in a family that was very difficult economically, and I have had to make my own extra money all the time since I was little, and I have done a lot. I think that's where it starts. You realize that nothing is just born without effort. We can make these slogans, we can shoot these beautiful clips, it won't work if it doesn't work at home. That's where it starts, I think.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U42	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Light Everaus! My question is based on your words that we must switch to the so-called tailor-made solutions in medicine, or family physician, based on all the information about the person's health and situation. We know that the University of Tartu has an excellent centre for genetic research, and already in the 1990s it was world-class. In what practical way would the use of tailor-made solutions in medicine look like and what would be needed to achieve this good idea for you?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U44	Thank you. Wanting, teaching, learning and after using the results of analysis and analysis. It begins with the fact that we clearly know that this is one of the fundamentals with which we can help people. We teach our young colleagues how to use this data. We don't have anyone without learning these new things [can't], we have to study for the rest of our lives. In parallel, family doctors and nurses must also receive this information, only then can they use it. If people can do it elsewhere, why can't we do it for our Estonian people in our little lovely country? It's all about wanting.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U45	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U46	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I'm not cheap with praise, either. It was a pleasure to listen to your very thorough and really meaningful overview of what you have provided on behalf of the Commission, but since you are a professional in your field, your personal authority and competence came to this. I very much liked when you said that personal medicine and family medical care, the availability of first-level medical care across Estonia is currently in danger. A good fellow, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, asked what people should do. We all know that the surgeon can perform an excellent surgery, you also gave examples of care after strokes and post-infarction, but at one point health and social work work together very clearly. What should the government do? Can you make any suggestions? We are talking today about a health development plan, but at the same time the welfare side, the topic of informal care, the nursing home and all that, where a person also needs health care, what should the government do? Thank you. I'm sorry it's been a few minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U47	Thank you. It went over because of that commendation. [[Laughing.]] I just can't talk any longer, but it's kind of a systemic approach. All these components, or all those involved, who are standing up for human health and better treatment of health, can only deliver the best result if they act together. This is the logical task for policy makers to do it, to set it up. They'll get paid for it, we'll get paid for it. I don't know if I answered you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U48	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U49	Thank you very much. Dear waitress, It's hard to be original, but still, it's a great pleasure to listen to an expert report. My question concerns the order of treatment. There are two components why they're so long: medical personnel, doctors and nurses, and money. If the state budget were to put enough money on hospital orders to get the treatment queues to zero, would medical staff in hospitals be enough? Would an increase in money reduce the number of treatments, or is it more difficult because we do not have doctors?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U50	Yes, a very legitimate question. I probably can't give a yes or no answer here. But I do know what today's status is. In fact, the queues are long, because there are not enough contracts for the Health Insurance Fund, and that means that it takes so long to get to a specialist for example. So I think it would definitely help. This is an issue in its own right as to what health care arrangements should be. Very many countries have shown that it is not really in the best quality of treatment and consultation that it is in fact in the interest of bringing together large hospitals and individual centres. We've completely forgotten about the private suppliers. I mean, we're kind of divorcing here on the basis of this funding. On the one hand, money comes automatically to hospitals in the so-called state development plan, but those who do small specialised clinics are on the same professional level, they invest themselves. No major hospital driver has ever invested his money in it. We know the difference between contracts. Why do we not know the difference by quality? We do not actually have a quality system assessment. The money doesn't come with the sick. I went further now, but all these things are connected. Singapore has solved this very cleverly, and these so-called public hospitals have also been put into competition and the patient chooses the best quality indicators where he is given the best service. That'll fix the whole system. So I guess it's not always about getting more money, it's also about how we organise these things. I don't have a plan for you today, but I can do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U51	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U52	Thank you very much and thank you also to the rapporteur for a meaningful presentation. I particularly liked the fact that when you talk about the health of the population, you also touched on health policy. Usually doctors, medics, that's what the patient's half of it is, because we're relatively weak on the patient's side. But there's one thing they agree on. Usually, doctors have said that they have gone to school to treat people, but they have been made service providers, medicine has become business, family doctors have been made entrepreneurs, hospitals have become businesses, public limited companies, foundations. There have been eradicated pediatricians, sanitary doctors, all this system, I remember, it was in the time of Toomas Vilosius. After all, this money from the health insurance fund is transferred from one place to another. We have a chronic lack of money, even though all the time we are putting on it and doing it constantly, in recent years too, and there is a very high level of ownership. But how do you think we can stop this ever-mobile that's been going on like this for 25 years? What suggestions would you have? Is there anything more that we can do to get patients to receive their own treatment and doctors to treat them again?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U53	I think we have come to this stage, just as I was trying to indirectly suggest that we must, in our own sense, take all the pieces apart for a moment and see how they get together in the best way and how they work in the best way, in the sense of who they are for. I don't see any other way, because there's really no way out of here. It's true. And I think it's high time we did it. I didn't mean to be pessimistic. I'm just optimistic.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U54	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U55	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! You also mentioned personal medicine several times. I have a question. We know, on the one hand, that the population is, as if, moving around, certain regions are growing, some are becoming thinner. Could this symbiosis in personal medicine save certain expenses? When we think about what help and, more generally, what advice we need urgently, both telemedicine and other information technology tools give us the opportunity to consult different doctors. But the other thing is, when we talk about long treatment queues with specialist doctors, how can we select those who need the first place in line not the last? Since they are the last, their health records may still deteriorate during this period until they reach the doctor. How can you select it? It may not happen to the first one in that order, whether he gets there a month sooner or later.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U56	It's a tough question. Thank you. And actually a very serious question. We need to find solutions. Today is not the time. As the National Audit Office's report pointed out, we know that the situation is as it is and it does not get any better. We can't assume that you referred to personal medicine, that today we are sending a family doctor under a tree somewhere for a higher salary. It's not medicine anymore. One person simply is not able, or even two people, to do the things that modern medicine is expected to do in order to get the best [results]. It might help a little bit, yes, digitisation. But being a doctor, for example, I don't know how to diagnose by phone, even when I see a picture, I don't know how to diagnose. I'm still sticking to it. It's not that simple. You can totally miss it, and you can tell someone who can smile at you in that video picture that, oh, he's got time to wait. He's just a patient person, he doesn't say [all]. Often these patient ones do not say and die before they do. It's not another one for one.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U57	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U58	Thank you. Thank you for the excellent and inspirational presentation, which included many international comparisons, where there was much talk about patient-centredness! Can you tell us where Estonia is the best in medical services today and where we could be the best in the world in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U59	Thanks for everything. Do you mean who could set an example for us or where we are? We should have the goal of getting to the top. We've been so good at everything. Why can't we do this little thing if we make the right decision? First there must be a decision, then there must be an action plan, and then these things go to work. Every year it should be reviewed. I hope that the next large hall meeting on the health of Estonian people will not be in ten years' time, as we have now, but we will do it every year. It belongs inside it, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U60	Thank you, dear waitress. Unfortunately, the time for questions is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U61	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U62	Thank you very much for your presentation and your answer to the questions, and thank you to all those who ask! Let's move on to the agenda. I'll ask the Director of the National Institute for Health Development, Annika Veimeri. Please, Tõnis Mölder, is this a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U63	Yeah, procedural. When I first put in a so-called 'word request', does this order go to zero every time a new waitress arrives, or is it normal practice to keep in line until I get the word? What has this customary practice been like for us?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U64	I guess we've had that before, for every waitress, the questions will be re-registered. Yeah, so you go to zero and then you have to re-register. Okay. Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U65	Head of the sitting of the good Riigikogu! Good members! Thank you very much for the opportunity to talk about the state of health of the Estonian people! We all agree that health is expensive and that health is often thought of when it no longer exists or when it begins to deteriorate. But it makes more sense to invest in health care than to deal with the consequences. Both must, of course, be done: both to invest and to deal with the consequences. The good news is that the average life expectancy in Estonia is longer than ever. We have taken a rather considerable step forward. The average life expectancy is 78,8 years and is 8.5 years longer than it was 20 years ago. If we compare ourselves with the countries of the European region, it is as if everything is fine, but if we compare ourselves with the Nordic countries, for example, we have room for improvement. But what are our people dying of? Let's watch 2019. 15184 people died in Estonia. Three out of five women and half men die from cardiovascular disease. In the second place, deaths are due to malignancies. Third, external causes are injuries, poisonings, and accidents for both women and men. It is due to recent accidents, poisonings, and injuries that about 10% of men lose their lives. There has already been talk of preventable deaths. About one fifth of all deaths are preventable, i.e. they are deaths that are more effective than medical care, such as health policies, environmental design, health behaviour, health choices. So an average of 3,000 deaths a year could be prevented. These include all deaths caused by accidents, all deaths caused by diseases caused by alcohol consumption, part, not all, ischaemic heart disease, and part of cancer deaths. When it comes to malignancies, the number of new cancers, combined with population ageing and lifestyle-related morbidity, is increasing. In men, prostate cancer, lung cancer and non-melanoma skin are the most common. Breast cancer, non-melanoma skin and colon and rectum cancer are the most common in women. For many sites, Estonia's cancer rates were significantly lower than in the countries of northern and western Europe ten years ago, but to date these figures have been equal for quite a number of sites. If we compare it with Finland, we have the same good survival rate as Finland for lung cancer, gastric cancer, pancreatic cancer, ovarian cancer and kidney cancer. At the same time, there are lags and lags in breast cancer, intestinal cancer and cervical cancer, for example. The main reason for this is both detection at a later stage and poorer treatment outcomes, as Estonian patients often have more co-morbid diseases that do not allow aggressive treatment as strong as they could do. We have also actually improved the figure that all sites account for 63% of cancer patients in life five years after diagnosis. It's improved by about 10% over the last decade. What are we doing now with cancer control? A cancer response plan has been launched to address the problems facing cancer control. It aims to reduce the number of cancer cases and improve the quality of life of cancer patients. Together, objectives are considered and set for cancer prevention, early detection, including improving the quality of screening, improving coverage by screening, diagnostics and also treatment. But in addition, the patient's journey from rehabilitation and support to end-of-life care is considered as well as the support provided to both the patient and the patient's loved ones and the life after cancer. There has also been talk here today about the average life expectancy and the years that have remained healthy. In the years that remain healthy, there is important information in addition to life expectancy. This means how many years a person lives without health restrictions. The fact is that life expectancy in Estonia is increasing, but years of healthy life are not added. There was also a question here in the Chamber before about how it was calculated. This is Sullivan's method, which is quite simple in itself. The basic data are population, number of deaths and assessment of health restrictions. The third component, the assessment of the extent to which different health restrictions in people's lives interfere, is self-esteem, the rest of the components are not self-esteem. This result shall be calculated by age interval of five years. The average number of healthy life years in Estonia is 55.9. It is remarkable how much it differs from one country to another. Although Estonia is a small country, the differences are so large that the difference between the best and worst-performing counties is nearly 14 years. This difference has increased over the last few years. Now to the health determinants. Health is most affected by behavioural risk factors. The best results are the complex prevention activities combined between different areas. Physical activity, nutrition, sleep, communication skills, supportive living environment, attitudes, risk behaviour and other lifestyle factors play an important role in developing infectious diseases, chronic diseases and mental problems. These health choices are made by people where they live, work, study, play, and spend their free time every day. In adulthood, effective work at an early age, work with children and young people in particular, can help to prevent problems. Supporting mental health for children and young people is essential. There has been a lot of talk about this in Estonia lately. There has been a positive development in recent years, but further short-term interventions for young families are still needed. Early detection and intervention in vocational and higher education institutions are also important. Young people must certainly be guaranteed the opportunity to turn to specialists themselves for help. The behavior of their parents also needs to be guided in order to change the behavior of their children. Some parental programmes are offered in cooperation between the state and local governments in Estonia. One example is the "Wonderful Years," where parents of children aged 3 to 8 are taught to use educational methods that support their child's development. Its aim is to prevent children's behavioral problems, but also to provide support for those who have developed behavioural problems or have serious mental and behavioural problems. The "Fabulous Years" programme is carried out in 50 local governments for a total of almost 1 500 parents, but of course the need is much greater. There is also a game of behavioral skills VEPA in Estonia, which is year-on-year and aims to develop the child's social competence and livelihood in school, the ability to control his/her behaviour and emotions. This is a programme where it has been shown that it will also help in the future to prevent child drug use and reduce behavioural problems, the risk of these problems. In the longer term, VEPA will also have an impact on the overall well-being of a person at a later age. As a bonus, in addition to the benefits that the VEPA behavioral game brings to students, the program also helps to improve the performance of teachers in the classroom. This programme has been offered since 2014 and has developed into a year-on-year programme with 4 000 children already involved. But here too, the need is much wider. In terms of risk factors, the foundation of good health is a balanced diet. Over the last 20 years, the proportion of people with excessive body weight among adults has gradually increased. Regardless of age, obesity and obesity are more common among men than among women. For infants, the proportion of children with excessive body weight is less than 10%, but for primary school-age children, 1 in 3 children is overweight or obese. This percentage decreases slightly as teenagers reach age, but starts to grow again from the age of 25 and when they reach retirement age, only a fifth of men and a quarter of women have normal weight. There has been no change or direction for the better in recent years. A little closer to the kids. In just over ten years, the number of overweight and obese students has doubled. Every fourth first class student is overweight or obese and this problem is greater among the boys. If there were nearly a quarter of the girls with excessive weight, there were nearly a third of the boys. There are also very large differences between counties. In counties with larger centres, such as Tartu and Harjumaa, there are fewer children with excessive weight. The most obese or overweighted children were in Hiiumaa and Läänemaa. We are adapting interventions to kindergartens to prevent children from being overweight by the time they get to first grade. We move from a balanced diet to the following risk factors: Preventing the use of alcohol, tobacco and illegal drugs is essential. In 2019, Estonian adults consumed 10.4 litres of alcohol per adult. The fall of the last 13 years has been 4.4 liters, but in the last ten years, the drop has been just one liter. This shows how difficult it is to change people's attitudes and behaviour. But at the same time, thanks to the implementation of alcohol policy, patterns have changed in the frequency of alcohol consumption, the quantities consumed at the same time have slightly decreased, and more and more strong drinks are preferred. In the same hall, it was mentioned earlier that the WHO estimates that six litres of absolute alcohol per capita is already a quantity that causes significant damage to public health, but in Estonia, per capita 8.7 litres of absolute alcohol is consumed. So we have a good country to go to the WHO border. The downward trend in alcohol consumption goes hand in hand with the downward trend in deaths and vice versa, i.e. when alcohol consumption increases, we always see an increase in the number of deaths. In 2019, 112 people were killed in alcohol consumption and over 500 people died directly from alcohol related diseases, namely 507 people. Compared to 2018, this figure increased. There are 13 diagnoses, these diseases, which are already diagnosed with the word "alcohol," not to mention other diseases where alcohol is an indirect cause. We cannot overlook the environment in which young people grow. A quarter of children aged 13 and 15 grow up in a family with drinking problems. Over a third of children have expressed a desire for their parents to reduce alcohol consumption. In families with alcohol problems, the economic situation is often worse, family relationships are more negative, and it is difficult to talk about problems at home. A third of the children who responded to this survey have also experienced depressive episodes. These are the children who need help. But it is good to note that, in fact, there are signs of positive changes in the consumption of alcohol by young people themselves. The number of 15- to 16-year-olds who have tried alcohol during their lives (this is information derived from the study on young drug use) has decreased. At the same time, however, it is a matter of thought that students aged 15 to 16 find it easy to access alcoholic beverages. The smoking situation in Estonia has changed significantly in the last decade. In 2018, the share of daily smokers in the population was 17%. However, unfortunately, there has been no change in smoking in the last 30 years for people with basic education or lower levels of education, with a reduction of only 1%. Passive smoking has been significantly reduced by regulation during the last decade. We are in a situation where the greatest number of people are exposed to passive smoking at home. It is therefore necessary to review the regulations concerning smoking in accommodation, windows and balconies. In the case of young people, prevention is essential so that smoking does not begin at all. The 2018 Health Behaviour Survey for School-aged Children shows that cigarette experimentation in the youngest age groups has decreased. But unfortunately, e-cigarette and lip tobacco are gaining popularity. They are both on a growth trend and more than half of young people start their nicotine-using careers in e-cigarettes. In order to prevent young nicotine addiction, e-cigarettes should be treated in the same way as other tobacco products, both in terms of sales and advertising restrictions. The Institute for Health Development contributes, through universal prevention, to shaping and developing the social skills of children and young people. We train specialists to work with children and also try to increase parents' knowledge of the health effects of alcohol as well as other drugs. However, in addition to prevention, the consequences must be addressed by moving from legal drugs to illegal drugs. According to various studies, nearly a quarter of men and one in ten women have tried drugs. The most common drug use is cannabis, followed by amphetamine, ecstasy, cocaine. The growing trend in cannabis use also increases the willingness to use other drugs. Among young people aged 15 to 16 years, cannabis is also the most commonly used substance, followed by sedatives and hypnotics, which are used without medical prescription, usually taken from their parents. Fortunately, in most cases it is limited to a one-time trial, while young people aged 15 to 16 assess drugs easily available. Health risks, especially in the case of cannabis, are assessed as low, which in combination may mean that young schoolchildren have a growing willingness to take drugs. Drugs are also injected and cause significant damage: broken lives, disease spread and deaths. For 20 years, 1705 people have died due to an overdose of drugs in Estonia. These drug overdose deaths are in a declining trend, mainly due to reduced availability of fentanyl due to good police work in the second half of 2017 and the first half of 2018, as well as the wider implementation of the naloxone programme in the past and the launch of new support services. Support for vulnerable target groups by society as a whole is essential in tackling the drug problem. We have focused our activities on young people, families, prevention, on the one hand, but also on people who are heavily affected by consumption, and on people who are addicted and have health problems, who are upset with laws and who have a lot of social problems to deal with. Attention must also be paid to those who still manage their daily lives, but need advice, support and support and rehabilitation services. In relation to drug use, it is also appropriate to focus on the spread of infectious diseases. More than half of the injecting drug users are HI virus carriers. The number of new cases of HIV infection is declining in terms of infection, but the level of infection remains high, with the countries of the European Union in third place after Latvia and Malta. The incidence of tuberculosis has been steadily reduced, with the aim of permanently reaching low-tuberculosis countries, which is 10 cases per 100000 inhabitants. Estonia's figure was 11.4, last year, in 2020 10 cases, but this decline needs to be achieved on a permanent basis. As mentioned, multidrug resistant tuberculosis is a major problem. More detailed information on many of the topics discussed above can be found on the websites of the Institute for Health Development. But to sum up a few sentences. Over the last few decades, health indicators have improved significantly in Estonia, but inequality remains a problem (women live 8.4 years longer than men). The life expectancy of men with basic education and lower education at birth is 10 years shorter than for men with higher education. This is based on inequality in society. Much depends on the circumstances in which a person is born. Reducing this inequality of health inequalities is one of the priorities of the population health agenda. Prevention is often less popular than dealing with the consequences, but prevention must be seen as a long-term investment that, together with the high-quality treatment available, brings us benefits. This benefits from improved health indicators, improved people's well-being and increased well-being. It is possible to increase the number of healthy years of life by designing health behaviour and a health-friendly environment. This investment is worth doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U66	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Annika Veimer! There are a lot of statistics, and on this basis, as you have said in the end, the situation has improved. That's good to know. But my attention was drawn to the issue of child obesity. This statistics absolutely does not reflect our new technological world. As we know, children are getting their smart devices very early and this reduces their movement or their desire to move even further, as the child is always busy. Does the Institute for Health Development have some kind of action planned to help children stay out more, do more sports? What should the state budget do to make this financial contribution to promoting the health of children and young people in particular?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U68	Thank you for your question. That's a good point. Indeed, studies also confirm that the time spent in front of the screen as children grow older and early years is increasing, and this is inversely related to the time spent on movement. What's going on? Both nutrition and movement are discussed here together. We are talking not only about sport, which may rather be such a demotivating word, but about movement, regardless of the form of movement. We have also carried out a study that, if there is a mobility teacher in kindergartens, the activity of children will improve. Perhaps, in fact, although this may not sound self-evident, movement must also be studied, exercise must be learned, different modes of movement, performances must be studied. That's what we do. To this end, the School of Invitation to Move, which received a strong budget injection last year, has also been launched. We also deal with intervention activities aimed at different age groups in schools and kindergartens. As I mentioned, interventions to improve activity, improve water drinking, stop sitting behind screens are currently under development for preschoolers. There are different methods that can be done to prevent overweight of children reaching first grade or reaching school age. It is also important to have a balanced diet for which there is a way of calculating menus in the NutriData database, which is used by all institutional caterers in schools and kindergartens. But this issue also needs continued attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U69	Tõnis Mölder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U70	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, first of all, thank you very much for this presentation. My question is not in any way a criticism of the Institute for Health Development; it is rather a question of how to do better, and perhaps an input to politicians on how to make a better decision. It seems to me that we do a lot of advertising campaigns or programmes in a wide range of areas: drugs, alcohol, men's health, women's health, HIV, etc. At times, I feel like we're just doing everything and a lot. Does all this have a bearing on it? Shouldn't we focus more on specific areas and not so much to fragment the volume of campaigns and programmes? It seems to me that if there is a limited amount of money, the result will be a little wasted on the basis of this fragmentation. What's your opinion on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U71	Yeah, I kind of support that opinion with the budget numbers of the Institute for Health Development. When we talk about campaigns, it is about 5% of the budget of the Institute for Health Development, both in terms of employee contributions and in terms of the cost of campaigns. However, when it comes to fragmentation, we are addressing all areas in a separate and thorough way, including nutrition, nutrition, movement, alcohol consumption, tobacco use and illegal drug use and infectious diseases, all of which are risk factors and are all factors that reduce healthy lives and have an impact on reducing it. Yeah, it's true, we're gonna have to do some briefing. The communication work alone is not enough, we all agree, but raising awareness is important just as it is for different age groups of prevention, also providing assistance, providing counselling services, providing treatment and rehabilitation services. The whole package is important and cross-cutting prevention is also important, so that we approach these issues in the same way in the administration of different ministries, we agree on what are evidence-based programmes, and we offer these programmes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U72	Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U73	President-in-Office of the Council. Good waitress! According to the World Health Organization, the first wave of COVID-19 caused anxiety and stress in more than a third of the world's adult population. What could the Estonian state do to improve the availability of psychological assistance?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U74	Speaking about mental health, in order to get a better overview of the situation in Estonia and the impact of the COVID-19 on mental health, the Institute of Health Development, together with the University of Tartu, started a study on mental health in Estonia. At the beginning of last week, the invitations went out to 20,000 people. This study will be carried out in three waves. At the end of the year, we will get the preliminary results and a more detailed overview of this mental health study will reach us at the beginning of next year. Then we will learn more about the interventions that are needed. On the other hand, access to healthcare is also important. As has been said in this Chamber before, whether we have enough mental health nurses, whether we have enough doctors to deal with this subject, is another question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U75	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U76	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress, really thank you for such a thorough and colorful overview of what these health risk factors we have. Unfortunately, the line didn't get to me, I actually wanted to ask the minister. I very much like the fact that for the first time, the reduction of inequality is actually aimed at in the development plan. Just as you said, there is a need for complex prevention measures in various areas. The drawings also showed, for example, this game of behavioral skills. I agree that reducing inequalities is in no way health or health-focused. But how can these other areas be better brought about so that they can also understand that people's better health is something that cannot be left to hospitals and doctors alone, that it must also be done at the workplace, at school and everywhere else?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U77	Thank you for your question. Here too, work is on-going, and since the beginning of last year, the topic of cross-sectoral prevention, prevention has been taken up in different ministries and administrations. The Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior, as well as the Ministry of Culture and others will participate. Cross-sectoral cooperation is being discussed and it is agreed what these evidence-based activities are, so that we do what is proven to be useful.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U78	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U79	Thank you very much. We know that preventable deaths include suicides, mostly related to mental health problems. As you said in your speech, early detection and access to services are very important for mental health problems. We have been working here in the Riigikogu for more than a year on the law on psychiatric assistance, which would also offer minors the opportunity to contact a psychiatrist independently if necessary. You also indicated that this was important. Do you think minors should be able to approach a psychiatrist freely, just as with all other specialist doctors, if that is necessary?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U80	Thank you for your question. I very much agree that minors should be able to speak independently to a psychiatrist. According to statistics, about 50% of mental health problems occur before the age of 14 and 75% of mental health problems have developed before the age of 24. Perhaps it is at this age that young people should certainly be able to contact specialists independently for psychiatric assistance. While young people are generally satisfied with their lives and health and feel support from their parents, there are young people with health complaints with mental health problems with depressive episodes. These young people must get help.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U81	Marko Storm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U82	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! One observation. My colleague Ernitsa's speech, as well as your presentation, was about the Läänemaa figures that I think Läänemaa and Hiiumaa were the ones where obesity was greater among boys than in other regions. At the same time, one extract reminded me that Läänemaa was one of the regions where the number of healthy years lived was one of the largest in Estonia, see that it was the largest. It seems to me well, simply by addressing the subject, that these are, as if, contradictory and contradictory indicators. Is there any way you can comment on what's back there? Are we supposed to make some kind of connection there?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U83	Thank you for your question. Indeed, yes, the results of the child obesity monitoring study confirmed that a quarter of boys in the first class are overweight or obese and this problem is greater in rural areas. Perhaps as scattered areas in Läänemaa and Hiiumaa, this problem is greater in rural areas. This is related to daily exercise, how many children move, how much training opportunities are available, and how much they travel on foot or by bicycle to a school, for example. Does this have anything to do with the years you've lived healthy? These parallels certainly cannot be drawn to one another, but this is a matter for children, which certainly requires attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U84	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U85	Thank you. Honourable waitress! My question, however, still concerns an important issue for me, which is the subject of HIV and AIDS, but I also come to COVID. As far as I know, most of the public money used for prevention and public health goes through your institute. I'm not going to say the percentages, I'm sure you'll know better. But my question is that it is known that the prevention of HIV in 2020 basically stopped, as an observer, we did not participate in the pan-European testing week at the end of November, and whether it even happened, even though it has been happening for many years. The question is whether next year's HIV money will be as high as it was this year, the activities will recover and work will continue. Next, on reaching the COVID, both are infectious diseases, though with different epidemiology. But does the Institute for Health Development have any plan on how he's going to behave in the future, will he be offering tests, etc.? Is there any such forward looking?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U86	Thank you for your question. When we talk about 2020 I would not like to agree well with the statement that we have had a halt in HIV prevention. True, the week of testing was not purely due to the occupation of health professionals, but, as I mentioned in my report, information campaigns take about 5% of the volume of prevention activities. So I would certainly not draw any far-reaching conclusions from the absence of an information campaign. We have also provided all services in the COVID-19 situation. Some services have needed to be reorganized, but treatment, rehabilitation and support services have all continued during the COVID-19 period, both for people living with HIV and for injecting drug users, who also target about 50% of the HIV population. This is the same plan for this year. All services continue. The volume of services has not been reduced.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U87	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U88	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You rightly said that the word'sport' scares a lot of people, because behind it is like a very strong physical effort, it must be. I really liked it, and I was glad that kindergartens were going to have a mobility education, which is crucial. But my question is about your data that one in four first-class children is overweight or obese. I wonder if it has been analyzed how many of these children are born with a disease. Very many today somehow hide behind the fact that they have an inborn disease, this fat is an inborn disease, and there is nothing they can do. Has there been an analysis of the number of children with this disease in this age group?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U89	An analysis of congenital diseases has not been carried out in a child obesity monitoring study. But in general, obesity and obesity are acquired in life, not caused by inborn diseases.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U90	Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U91	Thank you. Thank you very much, Mrs. Veimer, for this presentation. My question concerns schoolchildren and e-cigarettes. Are there any data on their effects on health and respiratory disease among schoolchildren? It was about the use of cannabis, that they're moving on to stronger drugs. Is there any information on how young people are, whether e-cigarettes are moving on to real cigarettes? Any data on that, any statistics?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U92	Thank you for your question. Data confirm that the use of conventional cigarettes among young people is declining. It has been replaced by other tobacco and nicotine products such as lip tobacco and e-cigarette. As I also mentioned, over 50%, or 52% of young people start their tobacco or smoking careers in e-cigarettes. Have studies been carried out specifically among this age group on what diseases have caused e-cigarettes? The answer is no. However, there is an increasing number of studies to confirm that substances contained in e-cigarettes are as harmful to health as those contained in conventional cigarettes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U93	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U94	Thank you. Honourable performer! I have very little time, but my question is about the motivational movement. There are a lot of light traffic roads built in Estonia, mostly outside the major centres, there are really more of them. In the cities, we already have problems walking on the sidewalk. All kinds of research has been carried out on how many people are involved in one sport or another. But has the National Institute for Health Development done any research on normal movement, walking? Has there been a study of what, in my opinion, would prevent such a very human-friendly form of sport?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U95	Thank you for your question. Indeed, health behavior studies, as well as school - young people's health behavior studies, ask about exercise activity. The movement of Estonians has improved in recent years. Is that enough? The answer is no. This is also what we see from the data on obesity and obesity. However, if you ask what this obstacle is, then on the one hand, the obstacle is usually between sneakers and headbands, but on the other hand, the environment must also be conducive to movement. Perhaps where these light traffic routes start, whether they are somewhere far away in the forest or quickly access them, whether they walk to work, to school, to kindergarten, to the store. Such small nuances are very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U96	Thank you. I will, however, give the last question to Marko Storm as a gift. There's a questioner left over. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U97	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, good waitress, for taking a little more time to wait. The question would probably have been more to the Minister, but since there were many questioners, I will ask you about the tests. This is particularly the case with family medicine. I'm a 40-year-old man. Our current period, the spread of COVID, shows very well that if the problems are topical and acute, we will find will and also funding to carry out extensive testing. At the same time, let's look at the main causes of mortality, these are cardiovascular diseases, cancers or so. When I go to a family doctor when I'm 40 and I ask you to test myself proactively, I'm basically told that you're not in a risk group yet. As a result, do you have any plans or ideas about what diseases we could pre-emptively channel more resources and carry out preventive testing to detect these phenomena in our body?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U98	Thank you for your question. Yeah, here we've been working with family doctors on the first level. One example is the early detection of alcohol abuse, which is a primary service, i.e. overexploitation, which is one of the most important factors of risky behaviour. Similarly, advice on tobacco withdrawal is available. Last year, the initiative was also a study on men's health, which we are currently doing in order to get an overview of which risk factors or health indicators are the most problematic. But generally, the same common risk factors, such as alcohol consumption, tobacco consumption, lack of movement, unbalanced diet, need to be addressed. This is the area in which the primary level can contribute the most, both by family doctors and by family nurses.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U99	Thank you very much, dear waitress. The time for the presentation and for answering questions is over, so thank you. I'm opening negotiations. In the negotiations, representatives of the political groups are preferred. Signe Riisalo on behalf of the Reform Party Group first.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U100	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, To begin with, I would like to warmly thank all those specialists who were involved in the process of developing a population health development plan, because the document is meaningful and necessary. But this document is, of course, the first step in the long journey we are about to embark on. Thanks for the waitresses today. Very diverse presentations, each very important from their own perspective. I have to say that Mrs Annika Veimer's presentation touched me most personally because she touched on issues relating to child protection, mental health, parental skills, children's movement. These are things that will certainly create this base and the basis from which we can move forward and preserve and protect public health. I don't want to be supercritical, but I want to summarise for a moment the full picture of the situation we're in. We know that in 2040 there are 47 retired persons in Estonia for every 100 people of working age. If we put children in it, that means there are 70 dependants for every person of working age. This is a rather difficult situation for us as a society, because we have to cover, either directly or indirectly, the pension costs of the cadets, family allowances, benefits, welfare costs and the health care costs on the agenda today. We are also talking about healthcare costs in the same way, but there are a number of indirect costs that affect the health of our people, but which we may not always count directly in there. Indeed, public health is not limited to the organisation, availability and quality of health services, nor is it limited to those who provide the service or their limited number. It is in many ways stuck in our experience of how to preserve our own health, to be responsible for our own health. This is not of any minor importance, it is a responsibility for its health. But when we come to the money, indeed, the Development Monitoring Centre has estimated that in 15 years' time, it will be 2035, we will have a deficit of 900 million in the health sector. We know that the National Audit Office has highlighted the high age and number of family doctors. At the age of 70+, we have 10% of family doctors, aged between 60 and 69, 30%, which shows that we also have a tendency to have little service providers. Nurses are equally a concern: if the European Union average is 8.5 nurses per 1000 inhabitants, then there is 6.2 nurses in Estonia. What are the problems we have to deal with, apart from money? Definitely also human ownership, organisation of primary health care, result orientation. As a very important point, I would like to emphasise a cross-cutting view. Health is not an independent thing. Man is not an island, a person in his life is exposed to all other areas of life, and in fact all these other areas of life affect in a way or another... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U101	Extra time, please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U102	... our health, our life expectancy and healthy lives for years, but also help to reduce the risks associated with inequality. Let's think about it. It was about educational establishments and jobs, social welfare. These are all areas where better organisation will also help to achieve savings in the health care system as a whole. In return, we will have a longer life span and a higher number of healthy years. It all starts with home and family, which means that families who raise children must first be helped and from there, through education, jobs and the welfare system, to create this savings for us as a society. Every day away from work because of illness, every day devoted to the care of a family member in need of help and, as a result, every year of non-healthy life is actually a loss to society and can be calculated in exactly the same way as health care costs in numbers. This means that we must be particularly careful and attentive. If we are to redesign our health care system, and we should definitely do that, then we need to look at all the adjacent areas that help to support and possibly divert direct costs from health care. Thank you. Good luck walking the road that's started here!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U103	Thank you. Riina Sikkut, please, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U104	I'll take three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U105	I'm sure you'll get three extra minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U106	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, I also thank all the waitresses. I am very pleased that we are discussing health issues in this Chamber, in the context of the crisis or, in fact, looking further into the future. Today, unlike in recent times, this debate here has been surprisingly constructive, consensual and meaningful. In the case of the population health development plan, I would first mention two things that have sounded like keywords in this Chamber today, but I will bring them out separately. Indeed, we aim to reduce inequalities. It is not important that the average grows, that those who are already healthy and well behave better in terms of health, but that all people live healthier in Estonia for longer than before. The second keyword is the evidence-based, knowledge-based approach. Whether we are talking about specific prevention programmes at school or in the healthcare system, or about how the development plan as a whole has been structured, we are not just talking about a set objective and a vague plan to move towards this goal, but we are also really drawing out which health conditions we want to reduce or which risk factors need to be reduced in order to achieve these objectives. This journey to the target is much more specific than in the previous population health development plan and development plans in many other areas. In order to achieve the objectives, this change must first be achieved. If, perhaps, it seems somehow difficult how we are still prolonging this healthy life span for three or five years, it is actually possible to achieve this change. We have experience. For example, prevention to reduce road accidents and death from fire and drowning, which in fact means raising people's awareness, changing their behaviour. We have managed to achieve this change and the mortality caused by external causes has decreased. We must thank the Rescue Board, who has done a very good job. It has been an analytical approach, it has been a systematic approach. It is very clear that in the case of specific deaths and damage to health, it has been examined what these causes were and how this accident could have been prevented specifically. It teaches us that in the future we will have fewer losses of this type in society. The good work done by the Rescue Board has led to the fact that, I'd say, they have a lot of ceiling in their hands. What they have succeeded in doing with their forces is done. In the case of the deaths that we still have every year, much must come from the social system. The people of the Rescue Board, their knowledge and methods of intervention remain limited, either the social support of the local government or the support of the health care system is needed. This help has to come from somewhere else to keep this person alive before it goes over the car with signals. We've done well, with a reduction in mortality due to external causes. But, as with many things, this improvement has not even led us to an average level in the European Union. According to the assessment in the development plan, we would actually save another 300 lives a year if we reached the average level of the European Union with external causes. 300 lives a year. And not even when we reach the top of the European Union. Okay. It was about making a change. When we talk about what we have, really, we look like Eastern Europe, things have gotten better, we're good. However, if the GDP per capita in Tallinn is already above the European Union average, for virtually no health indicator [it does not exist], unless we are talking about infant mortality, where indeed all midwives and obstetricians have done very good research-based work. But, for example, people under the age of 65 have 1.9 times the average cardiovascular mortality rate in the European Union, twice as many people under the age of 65 will die. We have two times as many deaths from heart disease as the average in the European Union from people who have not yet retired. The death rate for chronic liver diseases is also one of the highest in the European Union in Estonia. Perhaps our improvement, which has taken place over decades, means that we have won these lighter battles, and now we have to start doing this hard work. The Minister explained, and also Annika Veimer explained, what are these places, diet, movement, alcohol consumption, where it is necessary to achieve this change in order to prevent up to 3000 deaths per year, which would mean that we would immediately have a positive effect. In addition to changing behaviour, as has been going through slides several times today, Estonia also stands out by the fact that we have a very large difference in life expectancy between women and men. This gap has narrowed, we are better here than Latvia and Lithuania, but, in fact, we are still in the back of the European Union. The fact that Latvia and Lithuania are behind us should not bring us so much joy in this area. Looking at unfavorable health behaviour as a whole, we can bring about 50% of deaths, half of deaths per year to health behaviour. In the European Union as a whole, this number has been 39%. We have enough damage to prevent a change in our health behaviour and what needs to be dealt with. But it's not enough to tell a person not to die of heart disease. Well, there's no way to do that. It doesn't work the same way when you say, but be better, eat healthier, move a little bit more. We all know that, actually. However, it still appears from the statistics that although, for example, the share of everyday smokers has decreased, men with basic education have three times more daily smokers than men with higher education. Now we come to these complex solutions. It is not enough simply to make an effort in the area of health; it is not enough to deal with the average person. The inequality between regions, levels of education and income is so great that it must be at the heart of the effort. More of those scary numbers. Of women earning higher incomes, one fifth of women, 80% say yes, their health is good or quite good. 80% of women earning higher income. Of women earning lower incomes, 28% say that their health is good or pretty good. It's almost a triple difference. Finally, I would like to mention that, when people have changed their health behaviour and worked hard, but there is a health problem and there is a need for medical care, we still have not solved the concern that for decades we have 4 to 6% of people without health insurance and, in fact, there is no access to a doctor in case of health problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U107	Dear waitress! Your time is up.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U108	Now. Thank you! It's not just gender or regional inequality. I wanted to mention that when examining access to health services, it is clear that people with special needs will appreciate that they will not receive medical care if necessary. 10% of other people, but a fifth of people with special needs do not receive medical care if necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U109	Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U110	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, wanted to thank the speakers for a very thorough and constructive debate. Okay. But to the report. In the last nine months, health issues have gained new meaning and special importance. The reason is known to everyone: the Coronavirus pandemic, which has changed the lives of many people and forced them to think more seriously about their health and the health of their loved ones. It is obvious that as long as the problem of the corona virus is not solved, it will have an impact on health, education, the economy, transport. The long-term impact of the corona virus must undoubtedly be taken into account when developing the development plan for the years 2020 to 2030. This is our new reality, with which we must live, but the development of society must not stop there. I consider it positive that in the Health Development Programme for the next decade it is very clear that factors affecting human health fall under the responsibility of several areas. These include the social sector, the economy and the environment. It is therefore important that health effects are also taken into account when designing these areas and implementing decisions. Health issues cannot be viewed separately from people's psychology and their behavioural motivations. On the one hand, public institutions and the labour market are interested in people being healthy both physically and mentally. After all, it depends on human health how successful and economically developed society and the state as a whole are. On the other hand, a modern person, unlike a person in industrial society, puts his individual needs and interests at the forefront and looks at the country rather than at the source of certain goods and services. It is less likely that he would think that a person must be healthy for the maximum benefit of society. I am of the opinion that the health development programme, which will be completed for the next ten years, should offer a certain compromise in which the interests of the country and of man should be taken into account in the same way. I believe that, of course, the health, freedom and rights of the individual must be a major priority, but only until they directly affect the health and rights of another person. Unfortunately, the anti-masking movement is currently not in line with the interests of our society. Health development plans include a special place for extending healthy lives. Women live 75% of their lives healthy. This includes an increase in the healthy life expectancy of women compared to 2017 of at least 3.9 years, i.e. a healthy life expectancy of 63 years by 2030. Men live 80% of their lives healthy. This includes a healthy life expectancy of at least 7.7 years of age compared to 2017, i.e. a healthy life expectancy of 62 years by 2030. In implementing the health development plan, we must realise that we will not achieve the objectives if we do not recognise the importance of maintaining and supporting health. However, this is only possible if a person is not busy looking for a job, if he or she is on a fixed ground in a socio-economic sense, has an education and profession, a continuous income, can afford to eat properly, can find time for physical activity. A direct link has been found between the level of education, the state of health and the length of life. It is up to us to ensure that all groups of the population have a level playing field for maintaining health. In this plan, the continuous increase in pensions for older people will be positive. Different health features... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U111	Extra time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U112	... in the case of indicators, we often find large differences in numbers based on gender, age groups, regional regions or some other characteristic. In order to influence such health indicators and to mitigate the situation of the people most in need, it is precisely them that must be considered as target groups when planning interventions, so we also reduce inequalities in health. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U113	Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U114	Good President! Good people, as far as we're concerned! I also thank all the waitresses for my part. Health Development Plan until 2030. I'm not much of a fan of development plans. Often they are relatively general, pathetic, but I agree that people must have a purpose before their eyes. To get there, to the future, let him be. I myself took part in the working group on these health scenarios, and it was much more exciting. They had more spirit and vitality, including consideration of practical factors. Maybe we could look at these two like a development scenario together like this. Certainly, as Dr Everaus mentioned, there is a need for all kinds of practical short-term documents on how to implement something concretely. The criterion of truth is practice. This is not a Marxist word, but many philosophers known from the history of philosophy have claimed it. It was nice of you to have one of the practitioners here today. The moment of our health care truth, or this practice, arrived with the COVID-19 virus. I had to make a coercion. What is the future of our health care? I looked at the keywords of the development plan, and maybe we could go over a few. Health in every policy. A very ambitious idea, but very difficult to implement, of course. For example, during the COVID period, when restrictions began to be imposed that health first and foremost, there were immediate setbacks and also a protest on the economic side. Or the environment, for example. Yeah, we need clean air, clean water. Some things we can change, such as the use of plastic, but the weather here in Estonia is always unpleasant. We can beat the weather station no matter how much, but there's no good without it. Maybe it'll be a little better in the summer. It is all the diseases in our region, which are mental disorders, as well as cardiovascular diseases, that contribute to this (constantly low pressures, rains, humidity, dampness, etc.). Of course, we can change health behaviour: healthy diet, reducing alcohol consumption, reducing tobacco consumption. Things like that. Collaboration. Once again by two hands, but again very difficult to implement. For example, I have experience in managing the health section of the Baltic Assembly. We had a lot of beautiful ideas in the Baltic Assembly, but COVID also came up, so we couldn't even physically meet. Very many ideas have not been implemented. Also at Estonian level: guaranteeing digital prescription, a small problem, we have discussed four or five times in the Committee on Social Affairs and have not reached a solution. Reducing inequality, which was much discussed here. Yeah, all in favor. Again, it's much simpler in theory, but it's harder in practice. On the geography side... Can I have an extra three minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U115	Extra time, please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U116	... that health care should not be concentrated in just two cities, Tallinn and Tartu. One positive example is here too: ITK has now opened a cancer treatment department in Saaremaa. The gender [ aspect] was already discussed. The men are in worse shape here. It also slowly improves. There was also talk of social models and strata. There are structural changes in the economy and, if there is an increase in the number of platform workers or short-term employees, how to secure them all. Human focus and innovation. All the beautiful big words. But since my time is running out, I'm also pointing out a few critical factors. We will inevitably arrive at the fact that the first thing is money: who will pay for our health insurance in the future. If a billion-dollar hole yawns in the health insurance fund, it will be particularly problematic in 10 to 15 years' time. Of course, we are taking steps and they must be taken. Firstly, there are cost reduction steps: prevention, screening, IT developments, promotion of a healthy lifestyle. But there is also a need to diversify funding sources. It is not excluded that health insurance, perhaps additional insurance, will arise. On the social security side, too, we should think about it, open the discussion, even though we have promised that there will be no new taxes, but we certainly have to think about it for the future. It is also an increase in ownership, which has been discussed here, but it is really very high in the current model, so it is rather a form of insurance. Also, the development of private medicine. There was very little talk about it here. I think only the doctor mentioned that private medicine would make a good contribution to the first level. Because what are the characteristics of a good medical system? Funding, affordable price and short rotation. Once these matters are resolved, the main problems will be solved. But there aren't any bottlenecks. That is briefly all I wanted to say. I would remind you that Friday will be chosen a doctor of the year. Watch who's gonna be there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U117	Heiki Hepner, please! But still, you know, Mr. Hepner, we probably won't be able to finish the hearing at one o'clock. I should put to the vote the proposal of the Committee on Social Affairs to extend this sitting until two o'clock. It probably won't take that long. So let's call the people's hall. Ladies and gentlemen, I will vote on the Social Affairs Committee's proposal to extend, if necessary, the time of the sitting until the item is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U118	22 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this proposal, no respondents or abstentions. The hearing is adjourned. I'm so sorry! Now I would like Heiki Hepner to speak here on behalf of the Isamaa Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U119	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, thank you to everyone who has contributed to the development plan for the health of the Estonian population, and thank you, of course, to all the waitresses today! Public health is an area in which the differences on the world-view left-right side are eloquently expressed, for completely objective reasons and on the basis of vital examples. The Fatherland Party is convinced that the core of the right-wing social organisation is the personal contribution and responsibility of the person. It is also an important solution in today's debate and in today's debate. On the other hand, the left side distributes both responsibilities and responsibilities among people. Worst-case scenario, responsibility dissipates so that no one is ultimately responsible. In health behaviour, this last option would not be conceivable. Man lives in his body, man has his own spirit, and both the body and the spirit are personal. But if the body or spirit needs healing, society may be left to see where the responsible one is. However, as long as the person in charge is sought, the individual suffers. The Social Committee of the Riigikogu presented thought-provoking statistics on the years of life lost when processing the health development plan of the Estonian population. To give an example: 27.5% are related to cardiovascular diseases, 11.5% are related to accidents and traumas (then also suicides), 10.3% are attributed to mental health problems, including excessive alcohol consumption. These three groups together account for about half of the total number of years of life lost. Prevention plays a major role in cardiovascular, accident and mental health problems. The state can contribute to raising people's awareness and developing early diagnosis capabilities. You can identify overweight, a tendency to hypertonia or diabetes, a risk of depression or an addiction disorder when you contact your doctor at the right time. On the basis of this knowledge, however, only a person can change his or her lifestyle, strengthen his or her health, and prolong a life of quality. At least as important as prevention is good relationships between people. Paying attention to one's loved one, helping him to notice, decide and accept the necessary change in life - that is, responsibility for his loved one, in other words, love of neighbor. Love of neighbor plays a particularly important role in preventing and solving mental health problems. Or we could take infectious diseases, even today's pandemic. We can impose super-strength restrictions, we can lock up society, we have seen it in Europe too, but if there is no personal responsibility, this will at best provide a partial solution, if that is the case. In his presentation today, Mr Everaus repeatedly marked the importance of personal responsibility. He pointed out personal medicine that relies on genetic research and identifies the primary human... Can I have an extension, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U120	The extension, of course. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U121	... health risks. But we cannot rely solely on society to mitigate these risks. Without personal effort, we will not achieve the objectives set as a society in the field of public health. The principle of personal responsibility is also part of the population health development plan. In Estonian society and health care system, cooperation between all parties will create the necessary opportunities and conditions to support people to take responsibility for their health. Applying this principle over the coming years will help us to find an optimal relationship between subsidiarity and ownership in the healthcare system of the future. This debate is certainly ahead of us and crucial. The stronger the foundation a person's personal health behaviour creates, the better the result of a solidarity-based health system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U122	Thank you. Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U123	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The strategy "Estonia 2035" states that our aim is to create a system for early detection of mental health problems and to ensure access to services. That is an excellent goal. The question is how we can achieve this goal and whether we have the political will to address it. I repeat the words of Annika Veimer, Director of the Institute for Health Development, that most mental health problems develop in childhood or younger adulthood, 50% mental health problems occur before the age of 14 and 75% before the age of 24. Thus, early notice and timely help are essential for mental health problems. Early intervention can reduce or even stop the later manifestation of mental disorders, since many mental disorders are preventable and many are treatable. Some early spotters are definitely school psychologists. We know we have 36% of them in schools. I am, of course, very grateful to all my fellow Members who supported our amendment to finance the professional year of school psychologists. But that's not enough. In order to get more qualified psychologists into schools, we must also talk about the pay and workload of school psychologists. As we know, there are 800 students at school for a school psychologist. The School Psychologists' Association says it would be perfect if there were 200-300 children on one psychologist. In that case, school psychologists would really be early spotters and mental - problem preventers. Right now, school psychologists are doing a lot of firefighting. But also of political will. As you are very well aware, we have spent more than a year here in the Riigikogu dealing with the law on psychiatric assistance, which is intended to give minors the right to speak independently to a psychiatrist, just as they can contact all other specialist doctors. Some 50 organisations in the field of youth and mental health have expressed their support for this bill. Instead of bringing this bill to the vote in this big hall, the current coalition has presented its version of the amendment to the law on psychiatric assistance. We have to admit that we have received feedback from a wide range of youth and mental health organisations on this draft, and none of them supports the draft proposed by the coalition. For example, according to the Estonian Psychiatric Society, the new draft does not improve the availability of assistance or the smooth provision of assistance and continues the situation where the grounds for providing psychiatric treatment to a disabled person are unreasonably different from those of treating other diseases. The Estonian Mental Health and Well-being Coalition VKE also takes a similar view, who writes that access to psychiatric care must be ensured on the same basis as the availability of any other medical care. Further restrictions on access to aid for persons belonging to particularly vulnerable target groups are unjustified and unacceptable in the eyes of the PPE. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U124	Of course, three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U125	Of course, the Chancellor of Justice, who brought this problem to our table already a year and a half ago, shares the same view. Youth organisations as well. To sum it up. It is important and much cheaper for society to address the prevention and early detection of mental health problems, and we need to ensure that the service is available. I do not see the political will to deal systematically with mental health problems. An example of this is the process of the psychiatric assistance law, if we have been dealing with stigmatising mental health issues for a year instead of ensuring access to mental health services. Our political will must also change in order to achieve the objectives set. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U126	Thank you. Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U127	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you, too, for your part, for the performers today. Of course, again and again, the obesity of our schoolchildren continued to sound. It's been paid quite a lot of attention. The school, the classes of physical education, the hope that some physical movement is still taking place, and sometimes it is also limited to the characteristics of the elderly, that if a child starts throwing more growth in one moment, obesity will also disappear. But the other end of the life cycle, the elderly people who are no longer inspired by physical education teachers, are already an irreversible problem when no more movement is dealt with. I call on all kinds of mobility and sporting events to focus even more on individual advertisements for the elderly. Participation in children's races as an add-on to public sports events is often massive, but the older the age classes, the thinner the participation in the events. In addition, I say to the authors of all kinds of development plans and to the masters of health campaigns that if in many areas of our society elderly people are forgotten, for example in the labour market, let us not forget our elderly people who need at least the same attention as overweight schoolchildren in terms of health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-12_U128	There is no further desire to participate in the negotiations; our sitting today is closed. At the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. Thank you very much, everyone. I'll see you tomorrow.
