ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U1	Good fellows! Honourable Riigikogu! Members of the Government of the Republic of Great Honour! Happy Question Time Watchers! Let's start the 13th October briefing. In today's Question Time, we have the role of Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, who is the Prime Minister, Minister of Defence Kalle Laanet and Minister of the Interior, Kristian Jaani. First, we'll run a presence check. I'm sorry! Helir-Valdor Seeder has a procedural question. It's okay, it's okay.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U2	I'll do it later, after the presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U3	Thank you so we can move on right now. Incoming check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U4	28 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 73 are missing. Please ask a procedural question, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U5	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Today we have the Prime Minister's duties before the Riigikogu. We know that the Prime Minister avoids going to the Riigikogu and fears it because he is in trouble to answer questions. We know that on Monday there was also the [session] of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, to which both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health and Labour were invited, neither of which appeared, were sent officials. Today, the Prime Minister has found the possibility that he will go to Malmö for a replacement activity, a meeting that is not so important, of course. But my question comes from here. A ministerial replacement procedure has been adopted, whereby the Prime Minister's first replacement is Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration. Where is Jacob Aab, and why is Jacob Aab not fulfilling his duties, as envisaged by the regime for the replacement of ministers? Does the Chairman of the Riigikogu know? As far as I know, Jaak Aab is in Estonia and even in Tallinn. What more important does he have to do than now be before Parliament? Can you answer that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U6	Thank you. I'm not questioning your information at all. Knowing and knowing your thoroughness, I am quite sure that Jaak Aab is staying in Estonia, and when you said that even in Tallinn, I do not dare to argue with it. But he who participates in Question Time will inform us of the State Chancellery in cooperation with the ministers. So today, such a proposal has come from the Government of the Republic. But I will certainly ask you to know the information where Jaak Aab is between 12 and 2 o'clock on 13 October and why the Minister of Finance is acting as Prime Minister today. But, Helir-Valdor Seeder, a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U7	Thank you. I understood that we are governed by the State Chancellery's official staff, that this regime of substitution of ministers in itself is not the basis. However, I have a suggestion: we are guided by the laws and the procedures and we are also demanding on the members of the government. And I also have a second proposal, which also concerns Question Time. Last time I asked the Prime Minister, I didn't get an answer to any questions. We have adopted the best practice of a member of the Riigikogu. And I have a proposal for the Board of the Riigikogu to develop the good practice of people who participate in the work of the Riigikogu and who give a speech in the Riigikogu and are present here. Perhaps this will also contribute to making the answers and speeches of the people who come to the Riigikogu more meaningful, especially ministers, members of the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U8	Thank you. You know that we have a working group on the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure currently in place, certainly, I believe that these issues could be dealt with there. So I will certainly pass this information on to the first vice-chairman of the Riigikogu who is carrying this task force. And now we're trying to get on with Question Time, but there are still two more procedural questions. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U9	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Since the government has broken procedures, I suggest we cancel today's Question Time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U10	Thank you. We can't do that. There are certainly also questioners, who are very many, 13 members of the Riigikogu have asked questions, very important questions, [they expect] ministers to give them answers. And I also think that the people who follow Question Time, the people of Estonia, want to get fresh information about these important topics. So let's move on with Question Time. A procedural question, Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U11	Thank you, Mr President. I have a problem that Helir-Valdor Seeder actually pointed out. It's about answering questions. This is Question Time, and in Question Time, the members of the government report to answer the questions asked. The principle is that, in fact, in Question Time, the respondent should answer a specific question rather than talk here about how to say the fairy tale of the Bremen Mosques. It would be like the first and the main topic, which should be a cross-cutting line in all this Question Time, because otherwise there is no point in gathering here and listening to any vague answers. What is your opinion on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U12	Thank you. I think if there's a little bit of a parallel to some fairy tale, you can bring it, but it just has to be a shard. The content must still be that the answer is essentially to the question. Thank you! This is where we can take off well. We have been asked 13 questions and I propose to the members of the Riigikogu that we make one more detailed question and one additional question for each question. Then, I think, we'll get as far away as we can. I can see that Helle-Moonika Helme would like to ask. Really, this opportunity you have, but there is nothing to do, the procedural question is ahead. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U13	Thank you, Mr President. I have a very specific question for you. If, however, it is clear that the question is not directly answered, will the President intervene in any way in this process and ask specifically to answer the question so that we do not have to signal again with a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U14	Thank you. You know, I'll be honest with you, it's been the other way around. For example, when Helle-Moonika Helme asks about vaccination, it has sometimes happened that an additional question comes from a completely different opera. So I think we both need to work harder on both the members of the government and the members of the Riigikogu. But the truth is that when asked, it is not only about members of the Riigikogu, which is important to get information, but also about the fact that at the moment very many Estonians are looking at this Question Time all over Estonia and want to get information about the serious issues that are here: the question of budget deficit, traffic management, korona, vaccination and so on until the status of the Defence Forces orchestra. So let's try to get through these questions as soon as we can.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U15	Let's get started. Question one. It has been submitted by a member of the Riigikogu, Helle-Moonika Helme, which is answered by the Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, a member of the government, and the subject is vaccination. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U16	Thank you, Mr President. Minister for Finance in the role of Prime Minister and Jaak Aab. I am pleased to be able to address my question specifically to you, because it relates to the allocation of funds. I hope you can provide exhaustive answers, unlike the Prime Minister, who may not always know and can not answer everything. We are talking about EUR 823728, which is a very large amount of money - almost a million - and which the government decided to allocate to welfare institutions in order to support the channelling of workers and carers there to extra vaccination. It is known that the Agency's position of force majeure, which has not been changed, is that any tilting to vaccination by offering money, gifts or other benefits is illegal and therefore prohibited. I have already asked the Prime Minister once how it is possible that the state, the government itself, is breaking the law. That was when ice cream, movie tickets and spa passes were distributed for vaccination. The Prime Minister said at the time that this was done by private operators. And indeed, that practice was terminated at the time. But now we are where Kaja Kallas said at the time that the state has not broken the law and is not breaking it, where the state is pushing 824000 euros to receive vaccines, is paying for it, and is literally still breaking the law, and is doing what the Agency has specifically said is illegal and illegal. What's your comment?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U17	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U18	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Members, The fact that the rate of vaccination, including the receipt of new doses of effectiveness in vaccination, is important in order to get the very rapid growth angle of infection down again, I think we all agree, and everyone understands that this is the case. The perhaps most important difference between vaccinated and unvaccinated people is that, first of all, vaccinated people themselves will certainly suffer from this disease more easily. But it is no less important that vaccinated people burden less our hospital system, in other words, less likely to reach a hospital with a coronal diagnosis. Hospitals have confirmed by commenting on these data that 70% of those who arrive at the hospital with the diagnosis of COVID-19 have not been vaccinated. Therefore, in particular in the risk group, it is important that vaccination levels are high. If we look at the distribution of unvaccinated and vaccinated people for people in intensive care, there are as many as 80% of those who have not been vaccinated. And the fact that the customers of the institutions are a clear risk group is also known from the beginning of the spread of this virus. It is therefore important, in any case, to motivate workers to vaccinate. And it is still important, precisely so that we can limit the infection and hospitalisation of residents or clients in this very high-risk care facility. This support, which you referred to in your question, is based on the calculation of this amount by employees, which is EUR 120 per employee. It is intended precisely to compensate and support the activities that workers must undertake in order to maximise the level of vaccination in their institutions. I believe that we can continue this debate and the debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U19	Now, the question to be specified. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U20	Thank you. You described in your response the inadequacy of vaccination, that is correct. But no matter what situation we have, we cannot and must not break the law. It's not a country anymore, it's a no-go. We must not, under any circumstances, operate outside the law. But I will go on with this very issue of government financial separation with the allocation of almost 824000 national euros to nursing homes, but from a completely different point of view. We know that there are quite a lot of restrictions on the channelling of public money, everything must be fair and transparent. In particular, many movements of taxpayers' money through the paragraphs of the breach of operating restrictions are prohibited or, if so, punished. As your minister of finance, you approve and sign all such government allocations. Now that we are talking about allocating extra money to nursing homes, the network of nursing homes that provide this service to the state also includes Nursing homes in which Rain Rosimnuus, or your husband, is involved. Figuratively speaking, your signature is currently on a piece of paper that directs part of this EUR 824000 support to the vaccination of nursing homes with your husband's participation. We know how strictly our laws regulate the area, which must exclude the channelling of state money into companies associated with our tribe in any way, in which we have a zero tolerance in the country. I am asking here: did you reduce yourself in making this decision? Could you give us a little background in this decision in the government with this aspect in mind, and indeed, did you reduce yourself in making that decision or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U21	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U22	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. A good questioner, if you'd gotten acquainted with these materials, you'd have seen that it's also directly fixed. I did not participate in the decision-making process, I withdrew and left the government session for the time being.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U23	Now, one more question. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U24	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I have a question about coercive vaccination, which the government, with your participation, will practice very strongly and brutally by firing people, categorizing people, denouncing people, calling people lame countrymen, etc. in the Republic of Estonia. This morning the news came that Tiina Jaakson, a well-known journalist who has been vaccinated, announced that she had fallen ill in the Corona, and informed everyone, or rather warned everyone who had been in contact with her in the Riigikogu, among other things, so that they would pay attention to their health. This is not the first case, it is not the first example that vaccinated people get sick. Why do you force people to vaccinate themselves when the effectiveness of the vaccines is proven to be ineffective if you are unable to monitor whether people receiving vaccines have any possible health problems where vaccination can exacerbate these health problems until their fatal end? Why have you taken the stand as a party, not as a government yet, that non-vaccination does not have to be treated in the same way as vaccinees? Don't you think it's fascist and reminds me of Hitler's Germany?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U25	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U26	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good questioner! There were now a lot of arguments in this question that are not true. Of course, on your question, even at the beginning, I assumed that you would ask why there is a shortage of goose fat on the counters and why the pace of putting mustard patches has slowed unacceptably. If I am not mistaken, your quote is that there is no emergency situation in Estonia, it is a common cold that is supported by mustard patch and goose fat. But you certainly didn't ask about that. As far as vaccination is concerned, you do not support the compulsory vaccination, I do not support the compulsory vaccination, the government does not support it either. There are no and no compulsory vaccinations in the Republic of Estonia. As I said when I answered the previous questioner, if we compare the serious illness of vaccinees and compare the number of unvaccinated and vaccinated people who are hospitalized, 70% of those who are currently in hospital with the diagnosis of COVID are unvaccinated. It describes the difference between the intensity of this disease in unvaccinated and vaccinated individuals. That is why it is certainly the end of the day that gives freedom to people and, in fact, gives freedom to society at large. Therefore, the [fast] pace of vaccination is absolutely essential and essential. You asked about treatment and hospital care and referred to the Prime Minister's words. Everyone has the right to treatment in the Republic of Estonia. That is the case, and this principle remains absolutely valid. No distinction is made between vaccinated or non-vaccinated individuals during treatment. The Prime Minister has also made a fresh public appeal, which once again explains the background in which he made this comment yesterday. It is true that the proposals and ideas presented to the Prime Minister have been quite varied, including this. But it is not realistic that we are going to distinguish people in this way. The fact that such a thought comes to the fore at all shows how serious the situation is now. I believe that you, too, will certainly agree that it is precisely this situation that is serious. But once again, I confirm: everyone has and everyone has the right to treatment in the Republic of Estonia and there will be no distinction between unvaccinated and vaccinated people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U27	Thank you. I see there are now two procedural questions. First Kert Kingo, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U28	Thank you, Mr President. At the beginning of Question Time, it became clear what the meaning of this Question Time is, and you said such words that the Question Time is not only monitored by the members of the Riigikogu, it is also monitored by a large part of the Estonian population who want information. I would now like to point out that a moment ago, the Minister of Finance, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, in his duties as Prime Minister, was spreading absolutely wrong information here, false information to all the people who are watching the briefing. Would it be possible to call the minister to order and not to lie to the people in this brazen way?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U29	Thank you, dear Kert Kingo. It is not the case that the President will either correct the content of the questions or the content of the answers. What we are talking about is that the President will intervene if there is absolutely no talk about this issue or if there is no question about it. How someone responds to this responsibility is certainly not taken by the manager, which is here the truth or which is not the truth. But, of course, my appeal to us all is to talk about what is right and not about what is wrong. This does not concern the previous answer or the previous question. A procedural question, Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U30	Yeah, I basically had the same thing. The Minister literally informs the public, distorts the facts, lives in some parallel reality, does not know what his party associates have said about vaccination, about non-vaccines and about hospital care, about hospital treatment preferences or non-preferentials for vaccinees and non-vaccines. If a person comes to us with briefings on completely uninformed questions about vaccine, there are other questioners here, by the way, and starts offering us some narrative here that is not in line with reality, then there is simply no point in such briefings.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U31	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U32	Let us move on to the second question. This has been asked by Helir-Valdor Seeder, which is answered by Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus in the role of Prime Minister and the subject is coronal chaos. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U33	Thank you. Dear Minister, The Prime Minister, speaking in Estonian National Broadcasting yesterday, proposed to politicise the drawing up of treatment queues and punish unvaccinated people by not receiving treatment, i.e. rejecting them in the order of treatment. It's public information. At the same time, the Minister of Health and Labour, also performing in Estonian Television yesterday, stated that he did not support this Prime Minister's idea. My question is: is this government communication in a crisis situation, and which minister should we believe? Is this the official position of the government discussed and dealt with and presented differently by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health and Labour, or did both ministers sing and perform their delusions? That was the first part of the question. The second [half] is that hospitals do not treat the corona evidence established by the government as evidence of infection safety because it is not really evidence of infection safety, because they do not confirm it [safety], but have started to test it, which is a more secure option. The Prime Minister recommended the opposite when speaking in national broadcasting yesterday: abandoning testing and restricting the participation of people tested in public life, thus restricting the activities of those who are the safest. Is that also the Prime Minister's personal position, or is that the official position of the government? I don't know what this communication between government and government members is anymore.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U34	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U35	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good questioner! As I have already explained in response to the previous question, the situation in hospitals is becoming more difficult by accelerating the rate of transmission of infection, we all know and see. Understandably, the Prime Minister has also been presented with a number of proposals in order to avoid hospital congestion and to improve the situation as a whole. One of these proposals has been what you refer to, as regards the order of treatment. I quote the Prime Minister today, he has also answered this question freshly himself; he says: I stress that these examples are theoretical and that the government does not consider such steps to be realistic. This once again describes the seriousness of the situation in which we are now at the point of someone coming out with such thoughts at all. However, as emphasised, access to treatment is guaranteed for everyone in Estonia and it is not realistic, possible or intended to distinguish between providing treatment to people on the basis of whether they are vaccinated or unvaccinated. But it is equally true that vaccinations, if we do not talk about the order of treatment, but more generally about the current situation, will give the person greater freedoms, and greater freedoms, particularly in places where otherwise the spread of the virus would be faster. This concerns entertainment, for example catering, it concerns leisure activities in a wider sense, it is likely that trade will also be affected. These are examples where, if the situation continues to become more critical at this rate, the government is primarily determined to guarantee greater freedom for those who have been vaccinated. But once again, it has nothing to do with the cure. The recital was already mentioned that since people who are not vaccinated are more likely to get sick in COVID-19 and in any case our aim is to keep as much hospital load under control as possible, to keep it low, that is why we are discussing the fact that greater freedoms are guaranteed in Estonia for vaccinated people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U36	Now, the question to be specified. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U37	Yes, thank you! It is very strange that the Prime Minister openly thinks so hard in Vikerraadio and the next day says that it was a theoretical reflection for the Estonian public, and it is not really intended to be implemented, as regards the political drafting of the treatment order. It is also strange that the most safest contingent in society is the people who are ready to test themselves immediately before the events and are assured that they are negative, they are eliminated from social activities and their participation is restricted. At the same time, people with a vaccination pass are walking around, even though they may be carriers of infection as we have heard last, one of the workers of Estonian Television who actively communicates with people and is positive. They will then be actively involved and the activities of safe people will be restricted. It's extremely strange. But my second question is that. People who have suffered from COVID in spring, as well as people who have suffered from [disease], who have not tested for it, but who have developed antibodies, have no evidence of immunity, the so-called coronal certificate. There is no decision in the government on this matter. My understanding is that there is confusion. The medical community has confirmed that the last time Arkadi Popov did this was in the "First Studio" of Estonian Television, that people suffering from the disease develop stronger immunity and protection than those vaccinated. And my question is, why are people who have had the disease given six months of immunity, but vaccinated people given one year? It doesn't make any sense. Arkadi Popov also answered this question in Estonian Television and said that there is a plan to correct this position. Did Mr Popov represent the Centre Party, whose election list he's running for local elections, or the government's position? What's the government up to in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U38	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U39	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good questioner! That is what you must ask Mr Popov whether he represented the position of the Centre Party, his personal position or any third position. With respect to him in general, I think he represents a professional position, regardless of the political power he is working with. So I think, in this sense, it is definitely a person who knows this subject in detail. What concerns the status of people who have suffered from the virus and who have antibodies is certainly one of the issues that we will be discussing tomorrow at the meeting of the Cabinet. Similarly, those with medical backgrounds have repeatedly confirmed that penetration gives greater immunity. So this is definitely the subject we have upstairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U40	Procedural question, Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U41	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. While we are discussing the Korona issues and Kaja Kallas' statements yesterday and the improvements made today, which Keit Pentus-Rosimannus mediates to us, at the same time as our Question Time began, Kaja Kallas has made an entry into the social media, where he will present his views today. Wouldn't it make sense for us to meet them? Then Keit wouldn't have to mediate all this. I understand you said the Prime Minister went away somewhere, but somehow he feels it is necessary to present his views in parallel. Is there any way you can comment? Can the views on social media be based on, or are we going to read them out and Keit can disprove them?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U42	Thank you. I have to admit, I'm kind of confused too. I'm trying to figure this out. All I wanted to say to Helir-Valdor Seeder was that I found out that Jaak Aab is really doing some of the briefings, which is running the small island committee. That's all I found out right now. But I can't answer you, Mr. Priit Onion. It's very difficult for me to monitor social media here as a manager so quickly as I can see what's there. Here these names already cross-cross: Arkadi Popov, then there is Kaja Kallas, and there are so many of them. Let's try to go ahead with an additional question. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister for Finance in his duties as Prime Minister. In all this corona crisis or chaos, I've noticed two facts. First of all, the government is incompetent and does not fulfil its direct responsibilities and uses the recommendations of the Incompetent Scientific Council. In order not to be naked, I will give the following examples. The Scientific Council recommended the introduction of masks in October last year, resulting in an enormous increase in the number of infected people. On 7 July, however, an experiment was carried out in the air and biolab of the Estonian Environmental Research Centre, which revealed that masks are more damaging than useful. In October of this year, in particular on October 8, the Tallinn Administrative Court ruled that the presence of antibodies is essentially equivalent to vaccination against COVID. He also decided that 180 days of vaccination was not justified or, let us say, that this test was not justified. "The data provided by the Health Board to the court show convincingly that the likelihood of re-infesting people who have had the disease, including serious illness and the need for hospitalisation, is significantly lower than those who have been vaccinated," states the Court's regulation. And now we are faced with the situation where Tanel Kiik announced in ELAK the day before yesterday that they were not going to comply with this court order. Now the new results are coming, and we are going to be subject to maximum restrictions here too. I have a request, send it to the Scientific Council and make scientific decisions, and I would like to ask you to submit to me today the hospital coverage [e details] of the coronal patients throughout Estonia. You have the data because you rely on them.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U44	Good questioner! Good questioners, two minutes, good answers, three minutes. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U45	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good speaker! It was a little difficult for me to find a question in that description. The question is, if there wasn't one. If you have a proposal for the government to disperse the scientific council, we certainly do not have such a plan. So if you insist on this as a Member of Parliament, then there must be a further exchange of views on this issue, but the government does not intend to disband the scientific council. The recommendations and advice of the Scientific Advisory Board have certainly been very strong in the decision-making process of both the current and the previous government. These are people who are professional in this field and can therefore provide professional advice. But since the question was quite spread out, I will simply take this opportunity once again to repeat here before Parliament the recommendations or requests for people who are now over 65 years old and whose first vaccination has been at least six months. They are the target group which, in addition to teachers, the social welfare sector and health professionals, currently needs an additional dose or an effectiveness dose. If such a person has not been contacted by now in order to receive an effective dose, or a third dose, it is certainly a request that he contact his family doctor himself. In particular, at the family doctor's office, there are third doses of efficacy doses. I will also take this opportunity because there is freshly such a misleading [speaking] or, let's say, the questions remain that, if the same people have a desire or a time for making a flu vaccine, how to reconcile these two things: first the influenza vaccine and then the chorona vaccine. Experts confirm and say that if a free influenza vaccine [injection] is scheduled to be given by a family doctor, it is reasonable and can do both of them one day and not disperse it in any way. And, of course, in addition to the family medical centres, people over 65 years of age are also vaccinated with doses of effectiveness at other vaccination sites, which are very numerous throughout Estonia. So I'm definitely asking you to take this opportunity.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U46	Thank you. A procedural question, Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U47	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office, for giving the floor to a procedural question. I remember very clearly that you said that if the waitress deviates in her speech, you will certainly intervene. At the moment, I was dealing with the ineffectiveness of the corona restrictions and also with the illegality, but Keit Pentus-Rosimannus was dealing with the propaganda for vaccination against the corona here, and this is the first moment, and you didn't intervene. But the second question I had was what I couldn't answer. I asked Keit Pentus-Rosimnus to send data on hospital occupancy in today's day on the number of patients with coronal disease in hospitals all over Estonia. I didn't hear the answer to that. I'd like to know if it's coming today or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U48	Thank you. Yes, the other half of the question, that is what you really mentioned in your question, and I know that Keit Pentus-Rosimannus says that you will receive this information today at your e-mail address. Do you have any more procedural questions?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U49	Yes, thank you, dear...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U50	You have many procedural questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U51	Thank you very much, dear George Ratas. You're a real pro on the remote. You can even read Keit Pentus' mind knowing that he's gonna give me the data today. Whether this is true or not, I would like to hear from Keit Pentus-Rosimud that this data is coming today.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U52	But this is not the chance we have for you to start asking procedural questions to a member of the Government of the Republic. But the truth is, when you asked for it, the finance minister said he was sending, and I heard it. That's what I relied on to hear and see. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U53	Let's move on. Question three. The questioner is Heljo Pikhof, member of the Riigikogu. This is answered by a member of the Government of the Republic, Minister of the Interior Kristian Jaani. The subject is traffic management. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U54	Thank you. Honorable Minister of the Interior! Most of the street network in our cities has been designed at a time when the interests of the road user were prioritised and a room for pedestrians was created somewhere along the way. In the current situation, where our sidewalks are mostly as narrow, electric scooters and balance vehicles must fit in. In order to ensure that increased traffic on the sidewalks remains secure, the legislator has established a rule that when a pedestrian has left a light-mobile, he must drive safely and speed must not differ significantly from that of a pedestrian. I have been approached by many mothers and fathers with young children, as well as my grandparents, who have told me that if they have been walking peacefully with a child or grandson, either an electric motor or a bicycle has passed at a speed of more than 20 kilometres per hour and has threatened their peaceful security. Everything would be great if our roads and streets had a separate safe path for fast-moving light motorists and cyclists, but when stacked together on the sidewalk, they put our pedestrians at risk. Mr Secretary of the Interior, my question is what the police have done to correct the law-breaking light-mobile drivers. I have heard that some raids have been arranged in Tallinn, but what about the situation in Tartu? How long do parents and grandparents who walk with children have to feel scared, as if they were walking on the highway? Let's be honest, when we send the kids to school, we still tell them not to go on the road, look at two sides when you cross the road, and go on the crossroads, but right now it seems that the greatest danger might lie on the sidewalk.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U55	Kristian Jaani, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U56	Good President! Good questioner, thank you for the subject. The subject is extremely important, and it is all about the right thing when we talk about modern means of mobility such as light motioners. My personal opinion is that light motion and all this new technology have come to stay. It is likely that all this new technology and modern movement came faster than our traffic environment or the regulatory environment could follow. There have been developments, haven't there, and there have also been amendments to the law on traffic, which you also mentioned, how fast a light motor can move and so on. When we are talking about road safety at all, the ideal landscape is indeed that first, it is very good to grow traffic, there is a [good] traffic environment and then supervision. If they are not all consistent, there are indeed such concerns as you have pointed out. Perhaps one such ideal place, where we can see that different road users are separated and there is also a good traffic environment, is Reid Road in Tallinn, where pedestrians and light motorists are separated from each other. A little bit of road accidents, too. When we talk about the eight-month situation, we have 1,200 people injured in road accidents, and almost 150 of them have been people driving light motor vehicles. So, in reality, when we talk about road safety in the light-mobile perspective, first and foremost, they fall and they get hurt. Fortunately, they do not cause much injury to others, which does not mean that they always drive safely. When we talk about monitoring volumes, the PBGB has done over 330000 hours of traffic surveillance prevention work at eight months, and 40,000 hours of this has been spent purely on light road users, or just over 10%. And when we talk about whether and how much are penalised easy-mobile people for failing to comply with the requirements of the traffic law, this number has been around 600 for eight months, or 600 for non-compliance with some of the requirements of light-mobile vehicles. So this monitoring has been carried out, these volumes are large, but the best solution in this whole area in the future perspective is to work with those owners of [light motor], such as Bolt, who provide the most of this service, but also, of course, that the traffic environment is finally developed in such a way that it is safe for all road users.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U57	Now, the question to be specified. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U58	Thank you. Dear Minister, In recent weeks, we have heard news on several occasions about the fact that a short rental car has once again been driven by a drunk driver. Some have even said in jokes that the news soon becomes that a driver with a sober head will be driving a short rental vehicle. I don't think I'm gonna hurt anyone if I say that drinking is no stranger to some electric scooters. Clearly, the reaction rate of such a person has slowed down and is a danger to pedestrians on the same road. What is the police's view of this problem? Is it being controlled, or are some more serious accidents expected, to understand the seriousness of the problem? This check is being made for drivers, which is very right, but I have seen with my own eyes how not the most sober people have taken on tours and then driven electric motors or electric bicycles.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U59	Kristian Jaani, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U60	Thank you for your question. Indeed, you are pointing to the right position again. When I mentioned earlier that passengers with light motion have been injured 150 times and, in general, they are one-vehicle accidents, where they are self-crashed and self-injured, 40% of this number has, in turn, been drunk. Maybe it's a serious problem. When we talk about how much supervision has been done by the Police and Border Guard Board, but not only in the city of Tallinn, for example, is done by the law enforcement unit of Tallinn, who is dating, explains, anticipates, talks to people, then on the police side alone, such trips have been conducted throughout Estonia in eight months 89. It's purely targeted for easy-to-treaters. There have certainly been a number of violations, including drunken driving. So there's definitely a problem. As regards the challenge of rental vehicles, motor vehicles, the so-called problem, where there have indeed been examples that drunk people can rent it, can drive it and have caused a very serious accident, including a fatal accident, my personal opinion is that the solution can come with the help of the key to technology. Technologically, it is certainly possible for providers of such services to set up a system so that it is not so easy for a drunk person to put such a vehicle into service. So these solutions can certainly come through technological solutions. Once again, I bring out electric motors, or light - moving vehicles. Here, in fact, with one service provider, specifically Bolt, the PBA has also had very serious and proper cooperation. A very good pilot example has been from the city of Pärnu, where during the summer period the use of electric motors is very active. It is technologically possible to regulate the speed at which, in some area, for example, an electric motor can move at all, perhaps it does not move faster and Bolt has so-called technologically imposed speed limits there. It's all born together. The PBA has invited people to a common table and this desire to do together, to offer solutions, to find solutions, also Bolt does indeed have. So I'm sure I'll give them my credit for that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U61	Now, one more question. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U62	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I will take this opportunity to ask you a question, taking into account your previous work experience and certainly a great deal of knowledge. There are municipalities, and there are not few, where, in addition to the very good sidewalks, there are streets where there are no sidewalks at all. These are specifically those in Viljandi City. People are worried that without a sidewalk, they take a baby carriage, move home from work to work, go to old people, move children. What is your personal opinion, would it be wise to limit speed or apply so-called lying policemen? With this problem, several citizens have approached and asked [the self-government]. Clearly, the municipality is considering each case and every street separately, there are also traffic commissions. But what would you personally do with your previous work experience?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U63	Kristian Jaani, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U64	Thank you for your question. The most ideal traffic environment is where different road users are separated. Very expensive, but most effective. And human life can never be measured in money. Indeed, the local government itself has many opportunities to organise traffic on its own roads. Some have such places and have been designed so long ago that it is unlikely that the pavement will be possible. In that case, there are actually two options left, both of you mentioned. One is the lowering of the limit speed, which requires that all our road users are very law-abiding and indeed respect the speed limits. My own personal opinion, which I have repeatedly said, is that 50 kilometres per hour under the conditions of the settlement is already in the past and in the past, in fact it should be smaller, or it should be regulated "mobilely," in the view that at some point it may be faster, but at peak hours it could be much slower. A good example may be the extension of the Tammsaare road, where there are different speed limits with electronic traffic signs at different times. In my opinion, such flexibility would be best. But when I come back to these roads and how to slow down the speed of driving, including those [drivers] who themselves do not comply with the restriction because of the road sign alone, I say that putting down the policemen lying down is a very effective method. Certainly I call for them to be implemented more. Various studies in the world also show that road users are being called to order even signs that indicate the speed of the road user at the moment. Such signs are also very effective in lowering drivers' speed. Very many municipalities have issued electronic signs indicating the speed of the approaching vehicle, and studies have shown that this also affects the average speed on this section of the road.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U65	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U66	Let's move on to question four. It is presented by a member of the Riigikogu, Alar Laneman, and is answered by a member of the Government of the Republic, Minister of Defence Kalle Laanet. The subject is the impact of vaccination on national defence. Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U67	Thank you, President of the sitting. Very respected Minister of Defence! We all know that the capability of the Defence Forces depends mainly on its leaders, officers and sub-officers, and today also on critical specialists. In fact, in the Defence Forces, people are actually forced to vaccinate because it is a clear coercion to proceed with the threat of dismissal. If we say this isn't a forced vaccination, then we're also saying that the victim of the robbery gives the robber his wallet voluntarily. Perhaps this example of robbery is not good, but if we think that we are forcing people to leave by robbing them of the opportunity to serve in their beloved profession, then I think it [example] is justified. It is now known that the Defence Forces are planning to use these people who have been forced to leave the service, however, in wartime positions during times of crisis and war. There's such a two-part question. How does the Defence Forces ensure that they are up to date to serve in military positions if they cannot be used in active service and reserve gatherings because they are in contact with other people there? And how do those who are forced to leave have the morale of serving under those who fired them?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U68	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U69	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable questioner! Yes, we know that COVID has come among us to weaken our people in the same way, and as life has shown, his coming has also divided society a great deal. When we talk about defence, defence capabilities, it is clear that in some form the COVID's coming has damaged and weakened national defence, the state's ability to defend itself. But we have to do everything we can to keep our defenses and our defences safe. It's always the point of considering how we do it. On 13 August, the Government of the Republic decided that all employers, including the leadership of the Defence Forces, must carry out a risk assessment of which posts are expected to be vaccinated and which are not. With my decision, I have pointed out that there is a need to re-examine those posts where there is really no need to work without vaccination, and I have asked for it to be reviewed by 18 October at the latest. I have proposed that, until 1 November, all tests be guaranteed at the expense of defence expenditure or at the expense of financial resources. 19 November is indeed the date when difficult decisions must be made at the latest. I understand that this question, which you specifically asked about the reservists, is a legitimate one. The criterion of truth is certainly the practice of exactly how it will develop. But all those people who have been educated by the military and who want to protect the Estonian state, we need, of course.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U70	Now, the question to be specified. Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U71	Thank you for that answer. Personally, I have met an officer with such a very impeccable record, for example, and that is a difficult question. I would like to examine whether you can go into depth with this risk assessment, for example, to look at international experience, which says that vaccination in many countries has unfortunately not produced this expected effect: reducing infection. Maybe we have some good clues here about how to act, because on the other hand, the only person in the militia I know has been hospitalized. This difficulty and effect of the measures and, at the same time, the resulting damage to the defence capacity should perhaps be re-examined?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U72	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U73	Thank you. I certainly agree that each case must be looked at separately, precisely as a result of the tasks of the post, the extent to which they come into contact with other fellow fighters, whether it is a civil servant or an active military. If we get to the point that we have to start making exceptions, it will be an extremely difficult decision, as you know. Who, then, is covered by this exception? Today, the Defence Forces have indeed come to the conclusion in their risk analysis that all wartime positions are the ones where vaccinated individuals should be. We've been over this. We have discussed whether and how this could be done, and at least at the moment we are of the opinion that this cannot be done. According to me, the Defence League and the National Centre for Defence Investments are two in our ministry's jurisdiction, where people or organisations who do not have to be 100% vaccinated can really work. It was around 88% in the Defence Union and 70% in the Defence Investment Centre.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U74	Now for an additional question. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U75	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister of Defence! In my understanding, your responsibility is to do something like national security. Similarly, ensuring national security is the responsibility of General Herem. But at this point in time, it is not the security of the state that is a priority for you and the general, but the provision of a vaccination process. And this "preference" of vaccination of yours has led to a situation where specialists are forced to leave the military service on your own orders or on the basis of Herem's orders. I will also give concrete examples. To date, nine special operators have challenged their dismissal in Tallinn Administrative Court. I think the expression "special operator" is familiar to you. The Court has granted them initial legal protection, i.e. they are not immediately dismissed. Second, decrees have been issued to release people who have worked in the Defence Forces for quite a long time, even if they are raising a child under three years of age. It's done even on vacation. This shows the extreme incompetence of your legal department. For me, the question is that one of those released is, for example, an employee of the Cyber Defence Department, who has worked there for a very long time, for 13 to 14 years. These are the people we're not taking out in a second. Question: why do you prefer korona [against] vaccination to Estonian security? That's my whole question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U76	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U77	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good questioner! We don't prefer anyone to anyone. Our aim is to keep the Estonian state safe, to keep the protector of the Estonian state safe. And all the figures have shown that if there is a higher vaccination rate, there are fewer affected and less [people] must be isolated. You're shaking your head in the back, but I just listened to you answering the first questions here, and I didn't really know if you accused the government that the vaccination rate was too slow. Now I understand you're complaining that there's even a vaccination. What's your position, if you don't mind?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U78	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U79	Let us move on to the fifth question put by Riigikogu member Heiki Hepner. This is answered by Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus and the topic is municipal funding. And, as usual, we need to ask a procedural question before then on Kalle Grünthal. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U80	Thank you, Mr President. We have now heard the answer from Mr Kalle Laanet, the Minister for Defence, that he does not understand what the question is, [this he said] to me and to previous questions [in reply]. For me, there is a question of how Kalle Laane, as Minister of Defence, can be held responsible for the security of the Estonian state if he does not understand such simple questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U81	Got it. Thank you. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U82	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, Estonia has been hit by the shock of energy growth and energy prices have increased many times. Domestic consumers and businesses, as well as local authorities, are in a difficult situation. If the government has advised domestic customers to go to the local government to ask for income support and businesses are known to be partners, municipalities have not even gained sympathy. Municipalities are large consumers of electricity and heat, and the rise in prices hits their budgets very hard. If we look at how the state's income base has increased compared to the local governments' income base, we see that the country has a significantly higher angle of rise in the income base. However, the State has not planned for the new year to increase either the share of income tax to be paid to municipalities or the growth of the compensatory fund. Road funding will remain at EUR 30 million, even though the necessary minimum would be EUR 45 million, or 50% more. At the same time, prices for both road construction and maintenance have increased very, very strongly at present. Is it government policy that municipalities not turn on street lighting in the darkest times of the year, lower room heating in educational and cultural institutions and reduce the volume of road maintenance and construction? Or do you still have a plan to help the local governments?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U83	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U84	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good questioner! These are very interesting proposals that you have read here now, but I doubt that they will find more support, all such extreme proposals. As far as municipal budgets and the general funding of local governments are concerned, my general attitude or position has been that and it is that local governments should have the greatest possible autonomy to use the proceeds and their own money. The fact that local governments currently also have a very large share of budgets and municipal incomes or incomes, so-called "tag" money, is actually not reasonable. It also restricts the possibility of a rapid and flexible response to situations that you have described, where certain costs are temporarily rising. So I believe that in the future we should move right this way. Now, if we talk about municipal revenue and budgets as a whole, you will certainly have these numbers quoted by heart, but I think that everyone who may be watching our Question Time now or later may not know that. Let it be pointed out that in 2018, for example, if you took the three-year-old period, it was the first year when municipal revenues reached more than EUR 2 billion. Maybe it was 2 billion and 85 million. A year earlier, it had been 1.8 billion. And from there, the revenue of the municipalities has grown quite strongly. The total revenue of municipalities will be 2.5 billion euros next year. Compared to this year, 2021, the growth rate is over 120 million. A year ago, local governments had a revenue of EUR 2.35 billion. So, of course, all of this describes the fact that, above all, through income tax receipts, municipalities have more money to use. But the truth is, as you have described, that the costs have not remained stable as well. Just as a central government needs to find ways to cover the rising costs in the current period of price increases, the same challenges lie with local governments. But yes, tax receipts, the increase in tax receipts will alleviate this situation for the municipalities a little. I would rather say that the same increase certainly cannot be taken into account by a large number of private operators who do not have income such as tax revenue and who are in a very difficult situation today.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U85	Specific question, Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U86	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, The consumer price index has now risen by 6.6% and is expected to increase to 10%. The wages from which the income tax on the local governments' income base is calculated do not grow evenly across Estonia. Thus, regional inequality is clearly increasing with the current government's policies. Many municipalities have said that they cannot guarantee a wage increase as the state plans to do in public authorities. Not only has the state planned to reduce the amount of interest education by EUR 4 million in the new year, nor will the support of early childhood education teachers grow by a cent. This is a clear message from today's government that the salaries of teachers in recreational education should be cut and that the salaries of early education teachers should remain at the same level, despite the fact that inflation is exceptionally high. Even if the additional increase in income tax on private sector wages increases slightly, this does not allow the same proportion to the increase in the salaries of teachers in general education schools in today's circumstances. The salaries of teachers in both primary and tertiary education are lower than those of teachers in general education schools, and now the gap is just increasing. Please tell me whether it is better kept in Estonia or what it really is. Personally, it seems to me that it is rather untied in Estonia, where local governments have fallen into eavesdrops during the rain. I'd appreciate it if you could make it work so that there's less labeled money. As a general rule, it does not matter what colour a cat is basic for catching mice.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U87	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U88	Thank you, good manager. Honourable questioner! There is a difference between whether this is specifically a single-purpose money that cannot be used elsewhere, or whether the municipalities themselves have greater autonomy and freedom of choice to decide and to set priorities. So, in this sense, I really think that greater freedom and less heavily labeled money would certainly make sense for the municipalities. Now, once again: the funding of local governments or the income of local governments next year will be 120 million euros higher than in 2021. This means that the opportunities to set these precisely are 120 million euros more. It's not marked money, it's income tax money. And if you also referred to an education of interest, I am quite sure that the municipalities elected on Sunday this week will find opportunities, precisely because of the increase in this income, not only to maintain the current provision of an education of interest, but also to grow it where it is needed. So I think it is reasonable and it must be supported in any case. You also referred to regional inequalities and this brings me to the use of euro money. In the near future, in the coming years, hundreds of millions of euros will be used for support, for various investments. There, too, is sometimes still questioning how to avoid the situation that more effective applicants are coming from large cities, and farther away places are not immediately hit. It is precisely in order to mitigate this regional inequality or prevent this problem from arising that we certainly intend to set the conditions in such a way that, for example, the side of self-financing is smaller in smaller, remote municipalities. There is a plan to make separate application lines in such a way that, first or, let's say, a single call for proposals can and is expected to compete, namely, large cities, urban areas and smaller municipalities in the second round, so that there is no competition between them and, in any case, that it is ensured that municipalities beyond the centres can also benefit from this support.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U89	Now for an additional question. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U90	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. We are now in the Committee on Monetary Affairs for the third week listening to ministers talk about the budgets for their administration. Listening to the Minister for the Interior, this alarming message in the budget was that it would reduce by EUR 600000 one measure, which was previously a cooperation between local authorities to help improve heating stations and chimneys for families and people, thereby reducing the potential risk to people's lives. My question: is it reasonable to withdraw such funding in this situation? EUR 600000 is the amount we are talking about. For example, if we put 20 million on Tallinn City Hall, where there are 20 million on the line of MKM, is this the most appropriate place to start saving expenses for human lives now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U91	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U92	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good questioner! That is a very specific question. I have practically the Minister of the Interior sitting next to me, who will certainly be ready and will be able to answer this question in more detail. So quickly, it is very difficult for me to find all this background with such detail that I can answer you comprehensively. First of all, as far as the city hall is concerned, I think that, given the location of the city hall and how long this place has been abandoned, it is important, in any case, that the city hall finally gets a dignified use and is in order. So I don't think these two things should be the opposite. Rather, the concern is that the answer to the State aid authorisation that was asked for was so long that it had to be carried forward by a year to start the investment again. I think that's a problem. As far as support is concerned now, in order to make fireplaces, or in general, I would say, more modern heating systems and not only safer, but also less energy-efficient and sustainable energy-efficient, we will once again have the opportunity to open calls for euro money in the near future. I believe that the programme or applications previously made through the Ministry of the Interior, at least in part, will qualify for it. So, as a topic, it is certainly important, both in general terms, to which we are planning to invest a total of EUR 400 million in energy savings in buildings in the coming years, and in particular, to modernise heating systems more closely. I think that both are important, precisely in the period of very sharp rise in energy prices that we are experiencing today. True, this solution is longer-term, but still necessary. If you later have some very detailed questions that you would like to clarify about this particular project, I think that we will perhaps find out something about them outside Question Time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U93	Yeah. Thank you very much. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U94	Let's move on to question six. It has been submitted by Jevgeni Ossinovski, a member of the Government of the Republic, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of Finance, and the topic is budget deficit. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U95	Thank you. Dear Minister, Well, what do I have to hear about the program of making it safe, initiated by the Socialists on the initiative of Andres Anvelt? Lives are at stake. How do you do that? I can't believe this is happening. But there are still shortcomings in this budget, and I would like to ask you about one particular point. It's a good thing you're in the prime minister's office today. When your Prime Minister, Mrs Kallas, was in opposition, he quite rightly quoted Joe Biden in the opposition, he said a lot of the right things at all, less in the government, so don't tell me your priorities, but show me your budget, and I'll tell you what your priorities are. A very correct piece of wisdom from the President of the United States. I will dismantle your financing plan until 2024, the country's budgetary strategy, on the basis of which this budget is also proposed, and look at investment in education: the proportion of GDP will fall from 6% to 5% by 2024. Such a drastic decline in the funding of education is unknown from the last ten years that I have been in politics. There has already been talk about the salaries of kindergarten teachers, activities of interest, many other things. But my question is more specifically about higher education in this section, because, as far as teachers' salaries are concerned, at least it is promised that they will not fall behind the Estonian average next year. That's good. But with higher education, it's pretty sad. Lecturers get less pay in some places than school teachers. A longer-term solution is needed, but this solution does not seem to be offered. What is your message now to the head of government in charge of higher education? How are they supposed to guarantee the quality of their education in a situation where they are so terribly underfunded and you don't give them any extra money?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U96	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U97	Thank you. If I may, a good questioner, I would actually start with another subject which was addressed today in Question Time. It's about the corona and the COVID-19. I have read your proposals concerning the current situation and how to get out of it or how to fight it, and I just wanted to say thank you for them. They're part of the job. Not with quite the detail and exactly the kind you put forward, but it is very much the same key to the discussions we have in the government. So thank you! I think this is, in itself, an example of what everyone expects of the opposition in the current crisis to be constructive proposals. Now, investment in education and education situation. The Ministry of Education, the Minister of Education and Science himself, has confirmed that when we talk about higher education, this problem, which you refer to, which also concerns, for example, the pay gap between people working in higher education and those working in upper secondary schools, is in any case a growing problem. The Ministry of Education really intends to look inside itself for as many solutions as possible. And once again, it has to be said that [this is] an example of how some of the years missed in investments or changes, as was the case with the pay of teachers, means that it will later be more difficult to make up for this rugged distinction. So this is a subject and a problem which, in any case, the Ministry of Education is aware of and a solution is being sought, because education as a whole, if we are thinking about growth in the future alone, is, in any case, a place where investment and investment are absolutely necessary. I share that concern with you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U98	Now, the question to be specified. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U99	Well, I'm glad you share your concerns, but I'm looking forward to solutions. The Council of Rectors has quite understandablely expressed its frustration at the fact that the government's plan increases the lack of funding for higher education. They point out that a third of academic staff receive less pay than the estimated average salary of general education schools. This is today's situation. We were promised, I am thinking about society and higher education, including in 2018, that this issue will be resolved in this parliamentary period and an adequate financing model will be found. These thoughts have been different. Your party, for example, has offered that you could create a tuition opportunity so that higher education institutions would receive the missing money from the students. My weather view supports a different approach. I believe that we should finance higher education in Estonia in solidarity, more from the state budget, but both are solutions that basically allow higher education institutions to provide at least quality education. It is not a question of sharing our concerns here together. Really, higher education institutions say that they are unable to meet the obligations imposed on them by administrative agreements with the level of funding we have. They say that they must begin to limit the volume of Estonian-language curricula. This is our situation today. Unfortunately, the previous government has not proposed a solution for this and it seems that, even now, you are simply saying that, well, what is there, we sympathise with you and we are concerned and try to cope. What, then, would you suggest to the rectors of higher education institutions in this situation, in what way should they guarantee the provision of high-quality higher education in their higher education institutions? Should they close their curricula in Estonian? Or what should they do if the government does not give extra money?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U100	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U101	Thank you, good manager. Honourable questioner! No, I didn't in any way express this view to see how you're doing. That is certainly not what would be the right approach in the current situation. Next year's budget will focus on research development at €324 million. Growth is significant and was one of the most important changes that the government association discussed and decided on in the autumn compared to the budget approved in the spring. This is precisely because R &amp; D investment, the money that will be channelled there, will certainly help to support economic growth later and, in fact, will bring back society at large. Similarly, I do not agree with the type of attitude that criticises the increase in teachers' pay. This certainly cannot be allowed for teachers' pay to remain at the level that it is this year. [[Voices in the hall. The manager's ringing the bell.]] The fact that the Ministry of Education itself added additional resources to the wage growth or to the growth of the payroll allocated to the government's draft budget, so that the total wage growth is above 7%, has been an absolutely necessary and sensible step. Speaking about funding higher education and how the Rectors should behave in the current situation, the Ministry of Education, together with the Rectors, is looking for a wider solution to this issue. It is not just a matter of one year; it is, in any case, a longer-term task of financing higher education, which must be resolved. Rectors have also presented their proposals publicly. Among them is what you referred to, i.e. greater involvement of private money in funding higher education. This is certainly one of the possible ways to discuss how this should be done in such a way that access to someone does not deteriorate, because it must also be clear in the case of Estonian higher education that it must be ensured. So, for its part, the Ministry of Education is looking for a solution in the context of next year, but it will also look for a solution in the longer term and do so with the rectors, as it is only thoughtable. So I believe that this cooperation is actually very good and very busy for the Ministry of Education and Rectors.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U102	Now, one more question. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U103	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister for Finance in his duties as Prime Minister. I would first like to correct one of these [Nyans] in your reply to the questioner Jevgeni Ossinovski. Evgeny Ossinovsky certainly did not criticize or point out any negative increase in teachers' wages. Social Democrats have always considered the increase in teachers' salaries to be important. In every government in which the Social Democrats have participated, this wage increase has taken place and we would actually wait and want this wage increase to be even greater now. But I'm glad it's still in next year's budget. My question actually concerns the social sector. I understand you may not be able to answer this right now on the ground, but I'm just taking the chance that you're in briefing as Minister of Finance. Perhaps you can send me a reply in writing because, unfortunately, Signe Riisalo is not here today, but a number of people in the social field who are involved in special care have put this question to me. It is very good that employees' salaries are increased in special care. Indeed, social wages have gotten in the way of their small size, it is difficult to find employees, and it came out in particular within the framework of the kroon virus. The troubles with that are big. However, when it comes to special care clients who need, for example, a service to support everyday life, a service to support work and a supported living service, very often the service is provided by non-profit institutions specialized in, with a very well-trained frame and, according to them, the bounty that is allocated to people to whom they provide services does not rise. But prices are rising, not to mention electricity and everything. And there's a lot of pressure on the pay rise because these good and professional players are leaving. Could you clarify and send it to me in writing, whether there is an increase to be expected in relation to these workers?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U104	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U105	Thank you for that question. First of all, an explanation of what you said at the beginning. I really did not refer directly to the questioner, but because he pointed out in his question that there were tensions because teachers' pay was going to increase by 7.3% next year, my answer was simply directed at it. Indeed, I believe that, in Parliament, support for both the increase in teachers' salaries and the increase in salaries in the area of internal security is quite widespread, that this is in no way just within the framework of the government union. And, indeed, with teachers' pay, if the minimum wage for teachers did not increase or change in 2021, next year the minimum wage for teachers will increase from EUR 1315 to EUR 1412 and the average wage will be of the same size as the average wage for the country. I think it is important that teachers' pay does not fall short of the average wage. The Ministry of Education and Research contributes over EUR 9 million from its budget, with an additional EUR 21.7 million from the state budget. So this really is the maximum that can be done, and an increase of more than 7% is quite a significant change compared to this year. As far as your social issue is concerned, I really do admit that since I did not know how to prepare this subject in such detail, I do not have these numbers with me at the moment. However, as you have also given the opportunity in the matter, we will certainly send a reply in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U106	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U107	Let's move on to question seven. It is presented by Riigikogu member Martin Helme, responds to the Minister of the Interior Kristian Jaani, the subject of excessive use of force. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U108	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good minister! Well, as your Minister of the Interior, we've developed a pattern of excessive use of force by the police. It is enough to mark what took place at demonstrations in the centre of Tallinn in April, or to mark how the police shot one person in Haska. Now, from October 5, there is another example of the police breaking into the residence of Jaan Hatto, the editor of the newspaper National Journal in Rapla County, breaking down the door of the house, breaking a hole in the roof of the house to get into the attic, smashing the door of the sauna in the distance, targeting the owner of the house, handcuffing him, handcuffing him on the ground for five hours. In fact, Jaan Hatto himself has nothing to do with the proceedings; he is not wanted. All this was said to be done to find the wanted Meelis Kaldalu. The police themselves think it's okay, but I don't, and I think there's a lot of them... who don't think so. Paragraph 64 of the Code of Criminal Procedure states that the taking of evidence must be such that it does not offend the integrity and dignity of the participant, does not endanger his life or health and does not cause undue material damage. It shall be prohibited to collect evidence of torture or other violence on a person or on him or her and to humiliate his or her human dignity. It's clear that if several busloads of green men come to your house with machine guns and the helicopter's over your head, you'll be handcuffed on the floor for five hours and still being targeted, it'll be in violation of all these restrictions. A person's own connection to this whole thing is very questionable. My question is, as Minister of the Interior, do you consider this police behavior to be normal?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U109	Kristian Jaani, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U110	Good President! Good questioner! Indeed, on 5 October, at the request of the police prosecutor's office and with the permission of the court, a search was carried out to find the person you mentioned, who is circumventing legal proceedings and has been wanted in the same criminal proceedings in advance. The police had collected sufficient evidence and had reason to believe that the wanted person was present in this place and that the person with whom he was present would help the fugitive to hide himself, or help to ensure that the person was not involved in the trial. The police conducted their activities on 5 October. The specific person who did this in the house on the property initially prevented the police from doing so, and the police had to use force to open the doors and identify various hiding places. It was immediately understandable that the person who was wanted was indeed present on the property. Not at that point, the person had gone into the woods, realized the police were on the property, and fled. However, in the course of later activities on the same day, the person was caught relatively close to the forest, 500 metres away. The fact that a person is also searching for the forest is very positive and human, because a person should not be left alone in the forest on the autumn of October; his health could have been threatened in that forest. So the police acted at the request of the prosecutor's office with the permission of the court. It was a search to find a wanted person. This wanted person was found, detained, detained with the permission of the court, and, as far as I am aware, the trial has been scheduled for 21 October and 29 October. On 11 October, the owner of the property submitted an application to the PBGB for damages and the Police and Border Guard Board is currently involved in the examination of this application.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U111	The question to be specified. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U112	Well, you're talented. It's already a humanitarian operation that you're going to rescue a man from a dark forest with helicopters and police dogs. Points for impertinence, of course. But to which you did not answer, the question is whether this disproportionate brutal behaviour by the police is acceptable to you, as Minister of the Interior. I come back to the beginning of my previous question: this behaviour by the police is a pattern during your term of ministering, which we have a lot of. If you don't do anything about it, if you can't control your police chief in any way, I'll conclude that you approve. But I'll come back to that question. Jaan Hatto is not wanted at all. There are 135 wanted people in Estonia, I looked them up, yesterday. Well, pretty rough guys are there, really for crimes against the person, and repeated relapsers. These are the faces. In their case, I have not heard of such high-profile high-profile performances over the years. I've never heard of people who think they're somehow involved with them being locked in handcuffs on the floor for five hours. That's a problem. Not to mention that the matter accused or accused of Meelis Kaldalu has, in fact, been in the prosecution's office for four years, has gone nowhere and is in the winding-up phase. So now you're going to arrange this kind of trapping hunt here for some other reason. In fact, Jaan Hatto says that one of those people in a green suit had said to him on the spot, "Your journalistic activities will now end here." Was there, in fact, a show of force at all at the editor of a small newspaper that was critical of the regime, or were you chasing Kaldalu there, or was you, in fact, engaged in a humanitarian mission? When are you going to do something about the police brutality?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U113	Kristian Jaani, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U114	Thank you. The police must be human in their actions, of course. Whether he is a wanted person or not, if there is a danger that the life and health of that person is in danger, the police must intervene, regardless of the status, background or whatever that person is. The fact that we do not read so much about such cases in the media [that is to say] just a very large part of these cases do not get to the media. In this case, Mr Hatto is not specifically involved in criminal proceedings, but he deliberately and knowingly hid the person he was looking for who the police were looking for and who was caught there. There were also indications that Kaldalu was indeed present on this property. Once again, the police went there at the request of the prosecutor's office and with the permission of the court and carried out police activities there. The police have the right to use force in certain circumstances to achieve the objectives of their work. If there is a situation where somebody really feels that the police have done something wrong, then, of course, I am calling for, and I am going to have to go to the police's internal control or the court. This must certainly be done if someone has such a feeling that rights have been violated.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U115	Now, one more question. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U116	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister of the Interior! From my own experience, before going through a search, I know that the police will determine the situation ahead of you who may be present at the place of search, how many people, whether they are armed or whether there are firearms in the building, whether these people can be dangerous, how they are dangerous, and all of this is just a tactic of how the search is conducted. On this occasion, there was a person in the house. There was reason to believe so the police themselves have admitted that two. The police must also have known that neither of these people had firearms, were not armed, were not dangerous, aggressive, or violent. Yet there were several busloads of special-armed commandos, service dogs, and a helicopter. And all this to discipline one or two people. Now there is a recent trend that the police are simply ignoring the law and violating people's rights, which, as was the case earlier, were not so much the case. My question is: who gave the order and who, in addition to the permission of the prosecutor's office, approved the police operation, or the search, in this form?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U117	Thank you for your question. As I said earlier, the DA's office will make an application and the court will authorise the search. If we are now talking about which tactics are specifically chosen on the ground, which resource will be used, this will be decided by the particular head of this police operation and will take into account all these circumstances, including those that you have highlighted at the moment. But he certainly takes into account that the person who was sought has been wanted in the past, has repeatedly evaded criminal proceedings, is currently evading legal proceedings. The size of the resource also depends on whether a person can escape from the property, how it can be quickly retrieved from it. So these are all the circumstances that the police must take into account in their work.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U118	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U119	Let's move on to question eight. No moving forward, procedural question, Kalle Grünthal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U120	Thank you, Mr President. You said today at the beginning of the sitting that if the answer to the question is not specific, you will draw attention to it. Kert Kingo asked very specifically who this person was. He didn't ask, he didn't want to know the procedure. All we found out was that the judge did. We'd like to know what kind of judge it was who did it. Why not answer the question, but talk round?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U121	Thank you. No, as President in this case, I am certainly not interfering either with the substance of the question or with the content of the answer. This is the exact sense of the respondent or the questioner himself, how exactly the answer is given. The manager here doesn't think it's right to intervene. Kalle Grünthal, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U122	I thank you for your explanation, but in this case, if we develop a theory like the one you just described, Question Time will actually become a meaningless chat room, because the members of the Riigikogu want to know what is going on, and if we are not told, what is the point of sitting here?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U123	Thank you. I think Question Time is a very necessary instrument in the work of the Riigikogu, both for the members of the Riigikogu and for the observers of Question Time. Once again: I call on everyone to be as precise as possible in their questions and in their answers as well as precise, substantive, and to speak here was also a question of whether the right or wrong story was right. It's very important, very important. Mart Helme, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U124	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. However, I think that you should intervene when the Minister basically starts to justify the violation of the Constitution and trampling on people's fundamental rights in the most brutal way. I think you should draw the Minister's attention to the fact that he cannot perform with such rhetoric in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U125	Thank you. I don't think that's a procedural question right now. Next question, Raivo Tamm has presented it as a member of the Riigikogu, answers the Minister of the Interior Kristian Jaani, the topic is the construction of the border. Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U126	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. I love chewing on a star, too. I have not yet asked this question; I am only now going to ask this question. And since I want to talk about Russia, of course, not the construction of the border, but the construction of the control line. So, Mr Home Secretary, what are, in your opinion, the main shortcomings in the current legislation that do not allow the cases of offenders of this control line to be dealt with promptly and appropriately?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U127	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good questioner! I think that Estonian legislation is sufficient at the moment to carry out border protection activities on the control line, including the identification of these people and, if necessary, the initiation of proceedings against those who have illegally crossed the border. However, I would point out here that there are active discussions at European Union level on the whole legal area of the European Union, on how to intervene in situations that we see today on the Latvian, Lithuanian and Polish border with Belarus, when our neighbouring country, not us, sorry, but the neighbouring country of Latvia, Lithuania and Poland, uses human trafficking to achieve its political objectives, and what rights the country has to intervene in such illegal border crossings. Returning to the Estonian state, once again: in today's legal space, I do not see any major obstacles that would interfere with the processing of so-called cross-border cases. When we talk about the pressure on our external borders at all, the situation with regard to external pressure is actually very calm. When we talk about how much people have crossed our external borders between border crossings in the current year, this number, as I recall, is six people who have illegally crossed the border between 'border crossings'. And once again, a side-by-side issue, but I would point out that the construction of our external border is at the planned pace. Work is underway, active border building is currently at 23 kilometers on the first border, practically complete. The preparations and activities coincide with the 60-km section of the border. And it is extremely positive that there is also a corresponding budget to complete the border building, the border infrastructure, as part of the current project. The deadline for infrastructure is 2025, final completion in 2026. In the near future, we are going to apply for funds from European Union money to start installing'monitoring' techniques as well. It is planned to apply for up to EUR 30 million from European Union funds. The total budget for the construction of border infrastructure is EUR 88 million, excluding VAT. As I said, the final limit should be completed by 2026. The construction of the border was again started at the point where, according to the PBA, the highest probability and previous practice [has shown] that there have been the most illegal border crossings, namely that section of the border is already being completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U128	Thank you. The question to be specified. Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U129	I actually already got the answer, I wanted to ask you about what is going on at the border with Belarus. I've described it figuratively as the fire at our neighbor's house, and that we went to help our southern neighbor put out the fire. At some point, the government seemed to want us to install a smoke detector at this very, very rough moment, but then it seemed like it was just like a plan. I wanted to ask what measures we should take to prevent this fire. But basically, I already heard something.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U130	Kristian Jaani, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U131	Thank you. I have said earlier and I am also saying that today the surveillance of the Estonian border begins in Lithuania, and that is why we have sent our policemen and border guards to help Lithuania. We have had three rotating ESTPOL5 police units in Lithuania, and last Sunday the fourth rotation of Lithuania went on the road, again precisely to do these activities with our neighbours in order to prevent them from reaching Estonia. We were one of the first countries in the European Union to send their police officers on the ground. In addition, the Rescue Board, certainly the Ministry of Foreign Affairs through its diplomatic channels and the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Forces, whether by sending cutting wire or unmanned aerial vehicles to Lithuania, have also helped here. So I think that Estonia has indeed done a great deal. As far as our own external borders are concerned, as I mentioned, of course we must be prepared, we are constantly monitoring the situation, but at the moment we do not see the situation on the Lithuanian, Latvian and Polish border with Belarus. We do have specific agreements with the Defence Forces that, should a crisis arise, how quickly the Defence Forces will come to our aid, how quickly temporary barriers can be placed on the border. So this kind of cooperation with the Defence Forces is everyday and there are very specific agreements with the Commander of the Defence Forces and in the respective regions with the local police chief and local brigade commander when someone comes to help, how quickly he comes, how he comes, with what means, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U132	A further question. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U133	Thank you. Well, you said earlier, Minister, that the work is going at the right pace, and I am pleased to hear that the defence forces have been negotiated. I know the defense has said that pioneers can set up a temporary barrier within a few weeks, and that is, of course, delightful. Kalle Laane is shaking his head. That's right, isn't it? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Very nice, thank you! But I generally wonder, of course, whether the government has seriously understood the situation in the world. There could be a war in the Far East at any moment. Our eastern neighbour can use this moment, including at our border. The Taliban has said that it will trigger a wave of migration towards Europe when sanctions are imposed. The Taliban has essentially begun ethnic cleansing among the Tajiks and Uzbeks living in northern Afghanistan, who can also reach our border through Russia. All of this should be very alarmful and create a situation in which the current plans are reviewed and this routine line of control is accelerated. But my question concerns something else. In fact, today, through our press, we have received a domestic political scandal in Lithuania, where Estonia is accused of selling barbed wire twice as expensive to Lithuania. I don't know if the Department of Defense, the Ministry of the Interior or the government as a whole have made any decisions. I may not be right to address the question to you in this sense, but I am still asking. Don't you think this is an extremely unfortunate case and could damage our relationship with our closest allies?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U134	Kristian Jaani, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U135	Thank you. I assure you that the government is very well aware of what is happening both in our immediate region and in the remote region, whether it be Mediterranean countries, migratory flows or the situation in Afghanistan. There will be weekly security briefs and experts will provide reviews so that this awareness is fully available. As far as cutting wire is concerned, the Lithuanians were very specifically aware of the price of the cutting wire they are about to purchase. I would remind you that, in fact, the first part of the cutting wire that the Defence Forces allocated to the Lithuanians was given free of charge as a gift. Next, the necessary contacts were simply brought together, because at that point no cutting wire could be obtained from anywhere else in a hurry. I've been in contact with the Lithuanian Minister of the Interior practically weekly. On my initiative, meetings of the Polish-Latvian-Lithuania Ministers of the Interior have also been convened, earlier every week and now every week. Last week, I met with the Lithuanian Minister of the Interior, and there was a discussion about the cutting wire. I do not see anywhere that this should worsen the relations between Estonia and Lithuania, which concerns the price at which the situation, where there was a crisis and fast, was to be acquired by the Lithuanians. It didn't come as a surprise to them.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U136	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U137	Let us move on to question nine. It has been presented by Riina Sikkut, which is answered by Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, and the subject is budget choices. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U138	Thank you. The budget reflects the priorities of the government, while many minor changes and the public's rumours are those that need to be clarified and, in the course of this explanation, the members of the government have often hid behind the sign of state reform. The fact that the costs associated with the orchestra are raised from one budget to another is not a state reform. Just as moving Digi Summit from one budget to another is not a reform, as basically nothing changes in action. At the same time, children's interest education, the development monitoring centre's budget part of the activities that are necessary for Estonia's long-term growth and smarter decisions, will be cut permanently. What is the reform of the state for you, Minister of Finance, and why is this substantive change of activities not really included in the budget discussed in this Riigikogu? We see replays, but there is no change in substance. What is the reform of the state and why is there really no steps in the budget towards state reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U139	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U140	Thank you, good manager. Honourable questioner! This is a good question of how to proceed with the reform of the state. I am convinced that the reform of the state and the ongoing and continuous search for places where past policy choices need to be modernised, where opportunities need to be redeployed, duplication of activities must be concentrated, absolutely every financial year. I would rather say that the search for such opportunities is, in fact, included in the salary of each member of the government and must be done. The truth is that in a budget of 13.6 billion, which is perhaps often unfathomable in size, there are a number of small changes that attract attention and which often leave this larger picture unearned in the background. Since you mentioned one such reorganisation in the field of the Ministry of Defence, I will give another example, in the same way as in the field of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior. This concerns the possible linking of fleets and the search for points of contact, which would make it possible to make changes that have not been made so far, which are quite large, very long-tracked. I think that the fact that these two very large and important areas of state reform are now seriously planning and planning very fundamental changes, in fact, will lead to a significant change. It is possible that the same driving force, that this cooperation has now become so smooth, and the search for future changes is going very constructively on both sides, which is precisely because the austerity task that was given to the sectors at the beginning of next year's budget forces such changes to be considered. There are also quite a number of significant and major changes to the state budget for next year. And this is certainly not the only budget to do so. I am now taking this opportunity to say that, since there was one factual question left unanswered at the first end of Question Time, let Mr Grünthal have the numbers that have already gone to e-mail again. His question concerned COVID-positive people in hospital. To date, 252 people are hospitalized for symptomatic COVID-19 and 178 of them have not been vaccinated. So still 70% of the COVID positives in the hospital are unvaccinated. That is why it is really the case that vaccination gives and retains greater freedoms to those people who have gone through the vaccine course, precisely because we avoid overburdening hospitals.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U141	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. I'm sorry, Riina Sikkut, to you, but we're just running out of Question Time. Dear colleagues, thank you for asking, honourable Members of the Government of the Republic, thank you for your response, and I thank you for your briefing. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U142	Ladies and gentlemen, it's two o'clock. We will start the 4th working week session of the VI plenary session on Wednesday. There is now an opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please! I don't see that desire, so we can carry out a presence check. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U143	77 members of the Riigikogu registered. Now, can I have your attention, please? We have a little detail on the agenda. On today's eighth item, which is the first reading of the Financial Supervision Authority Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act amending other laws 422, the Commission will present a presentation by Erki Savisaar, Chairman of the Monetary Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U144	And now let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of Bill 361 of the Act amending the Employment Contracts Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. At third reading, as we know, we will be able to speak in the negotiations with the political groups. Siret Kotka uses the opportunity of representatives of the political groups on behalf of the central group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U145	Good chairman of the sitting! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I ask you to support the draft law amending the Employment Contracts Act and related amendments to other laws. This is a commendable draft, since it first clarifies the right of caring workers and officials to ask employers for flexible working or working conditions, such as part-time or flexible working hours and teleworking opportunities. Secondly, we create more flexible employment opportunities for minors, while ensuring effective protection in the employment relationship. In fact, the draft allows for a faster employment contract with minors aged 13 to 14 so that they can get to work faster, which is particularly necessary for seasonal work. At the same time, we create additional protection for 13 to 14-year-olds, encouraging employment contracts rather than debt-law contracts, which are now more well known in practice. And thirdly, let's improve the regulation on parental leave. On 1 April of the following year, all parents of a child under 14 years of age shall be entitled to 10 working days of parental leave per child under 14 years of age. This will be taken into account at the end of the parental benefit period and the amount of the allowance will be 50% of the parent's average salary. The amendment entitles both parents to 10 working days of parental leave for each child under 14 years of age. Dear members of the Riigikogu, these are all very necessary changes. I would like to ask you to support Bill 361! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U146	The political groups have no further requests to speak. I'm closing the negotiations. Now we need to have a final vote on this draft, because the lead committee has made such a proposal to us. Ladies and gentlemen, since we recently had a presence check, can we go to the vote? Thank you for that. I will put to the vote before you the draft law on the amendment of the Employment Contracts Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws 361. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U147	The adoption of the draft act was supported by 83 members of the Riigikogu and was not opposed or impartial. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U148	Today's second item is the third reading of the draft law 372 on the revision of the Product Compliance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other Acts. I'm opening negotiations. We cannot see the wish of negotiations; we can go to the final vote. Is it okay if we do this without a watch? Thank you! Good Riigikogu, please take a position and vote on the draft law amending the Product Compliance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 372. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U149	The bill is supported by 68 members of the Riigikogu, 17 against, no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U150	Our third item on the agenda is draft law 417 on the amendment of the National Defence Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. The first-reading report is made by Secretary of Defense Kalle Laanet. Ladies and gentlemen, [[It's ringing the bell.]] Quiet in the hall, please! Please, Mr. Secretary of Defense!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U151	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Happy college... I'm sorry! I had to say "colleges." Yeah, one way or another, colleagues, but... Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I understand that this bill is causing a lot of anxiety. You have received a draft law amending the National Defence Act prepared by the Ministry of Defence and related amendments to other laws. It is based on a broad concept of national defence, according to which the whole of society contributes to national defence. In order to cope with military and non-military security threats, it is important to mobilise activities and resources from the public, private and third sectors. The wider objective of the proposal is to enable rapid, flexible and effective mobilisation of civil sector resources during times of increased defensiveness, martial law, mobilisation and demobilisation. The draft will create better preconditions for the use of civilian resources in guaranteeing independent defence capabilities and the reception of allies. The aim is more narrowly to determine the content of the national defence obligations and to ensure that all authorities and persons are clear about the tasks that the state expects them to carry out or what farming obligations the state may impose on them in order to achieve the objective of national defence. Only if everyone knows what to do in a critical situation and what the country expects of him can it be quickly countered by threatening security threats. The content of the draft is based on the draft amendment of the National Defence Act submitted to the Riigikogu 112, which the government decided to withdraw from the Riigikogu proceedings in April of this year. The draft amends the regulation of national defence enforcement and introduces other changes necessary for the better implementation of national defence obligations. The National Defence Penalty Act is repealed and the National Defence Act regulates the whole of the matters of national defence obligations. What are the major changes to the draft? The state may need to use goods belonging to the civil sector, such as generators, vehicles, etc., in order to ensure national defence, or to place one-off duties and national defence tasks on persons during peace and non-peace times. According to the bill, things can be expropriated in the future, such as fuel or food, and taken into forced use, such as land areas, vehicles, etc., even before the Government of the Republic announced its increased defence readiness to organise additional training or to participate in international military cooperation, for example in supporting the activities of foreign armed forces in Estonia for the purpose of protecting the Estonian state. That is, of course, when there is an inevitable need. The Office of Defence Forces and Defence Resources shall decide upon the taking of the case and the expropriation of the case and the execution of decisions during the time of increased defence readiness, martial law, mobilization and demobilisation. The draft will make it more flexible and faster to deal with the whole commitment process for individuals. For example, a commitment decision can also be delivered through the news portal. When making a decision, it is not always necessary to ensure that the person is heard or that the documents can be consulted; it is possible to file an appeal within 10 days instead of 30 days. The draft establishes the possibility of obtaining fair compensation for the direct costs incurred by individuals in using their civilian resources. The current State Liability Act does not provide for fair compensation at the moment. The draft establishes the possibility of granting one-off defence tasks to a self-employed person, a legal person, including a local authority, based on their task, activity or purpose. One-off defence tasks are performed within the limits of the person's available resources and capabilities. The amendments to the State Assets Act make it easier to use and transfer state assets during special regimes. As an alternative, the draft provides for the possibility of granting additional duties to a person with a public authority in a professional or a service relationship, including the possibility of being assigned to a public authority. Relatively similar regulation is in the current Emergency Act. The State Budget Act specifies the conditions for the disbursement of the state budget in such a way that, if necessary, the Government of the Republic may determine the conditions for making all disbursements from the Treasury during the heightened readiness for defence and state of emergency or martial law in such a way as to ensure the functioning of the state and to guarantee the minimum income or need for persons. The draft provides a legal framework for the use of people and resources in defence in the most appropriate way and creates better conditions for the use of civil resources to ensure independent defence capabilities and acceptance of allies and support their presence. Our proposal is planned to enter into force on 1 January 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U152	Members of the Riigikogu also want to ask you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U153	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I read [in the explanation letter] about § 432 of the Act, here is the sentence: "In addition, the State's defence plan determines whether it is necessary to build up reserves to support the livelihood of the general population (e.g. food, pharmaceutical supplies, etc.). The national defence plan shall specify the extent to which stocks are formed, who is responsible for the establishment of stocks and how stock management is carried out. " My question is simple: isn't that what Major General Veiko-Vello Palm is doing?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U154	The National Defence Action Plan is a secret document and, of course, it is also a government document.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U155	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U156	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! A sensible and necessary bill in today's difficult world. But why don't you be a little more specific about the conditions under which these measures can be implemented and the role of the Riigikogu in making these decisions in addition to the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U157	Thank you. The aim really is that before the state's defence readiness is increased, certain activities can be undertaken in order to be better prepared for escalating events. In principle, it is possible for the government to make these decisions. If there is indeed a heightened defence readiness and martial law or mobilisation or demobilisation, then the Defence Forces and the Defence Resources Department will decide to take the matter into forced use. Before that, the Government of the Republic is basically a decision-maker. So the Riigikogu does not play a role in taking the case directly into forced use. That is, of course, when we adopt this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U158	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U159	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, please correct me if necessary, but did I understand correctly that, for example, the conclusion of an agreement with landowners at Siil, Spring Storm, may theoretically be cancelled? The defense forces just use somebody's lands at the government's discretion, and then they look at how it's compensated?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U160	Thank you for your question. Yes, this bill is certainly important in the case of additional training. It is common practice that the Defence Forces always coordinate with landowners and, if damage occurs in the use of this land, that damage is compensated by the defence budget. So it's this kind of cooperation relationship between civilian and military. There's no danger of anything hanging in the air. The draft provides for reimbursement of costs, reimbursement of direct costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U161	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U162	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Good waitress! We have now had a painful problem in society for a very long time, any phenomenon that is defined as "sund." Well, here's where we're going to have forced exploitation, expropriation. And in the light of this law, of course, I understand that this is primarily linked to the fact that we have an external threat and the need for external protection. It kind of makes sense. But my question is this: what mechanism in this amended law, if adopted, will ensure that these coercive measures are not applied in the resolution of political internal disputes?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U163	Thank you for that question. I have to admit, I don't like the word "sund." In fact, this is civil and military cooperation so that we can better guarantee our national security and preparedness for various threats, as I said before, also in relation to our allies. I dare say that national security is above day politics. Our state institutions and our constitution, I believe, fully defend against this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U164	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U165	Thank you. Dear Minister, I read your explanatory statement to this law because the law and the explanatory statement are correlated. I find it incomprehensible that people's food supplies can be expropriated, leaving the population with only seven days' supply. This reminds me of Ukraine's famine. I find it unacceptable that confiscated vehicles can be used to suppress civil unrest and that no compensation will be paid for it if cars are confiscated. I do not understand why the obligation to work within 24 hours is to rest for only six hours, four hours of rest without interruption. There's still a lot of things I don't understand. Why do you plan such repressive measures against the people?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U166	Thank you for your question. The brief answer is that these measures will certainly not be used against the people, but will be used in the event of great distress and in order to protect the people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U167	No further questions. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U168	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U169	And now there's an opportunity to listen to a representative of the National Defence Commission from Leo Kunna. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U170	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister of Defence! The National Defence Committee discussed this draft before the first reading at its meeting on 27 September, in which Minister Kalle Laanet participated as representatives of the initiator of the draft and Margit Gross, also Head of the Legal Department of the Ministry of Defence. What would I say for the introduction? As we know, we have a reserve army, which means that the military defence forces are many times greater than the peacetime army, and our dispute is more about how much and how quickly to increase the military defence forces. It is clear that the greater we have the military defence forces, the more civilian resources we need to mobilise, because we simply do not have any part of these resources to acquire for the defence forces during peacetime. They are not for everyday use. It is therefore reasonable that everything we can introduce from the civilian sector, we also do. This draft, as the Minister has already pointed out, mainly concerns requisitions. In other words, everything that has so far been the subject of requisitions and was enshrined in the law on requisitions, all this matter will be transferred to this national defence law with these amendments. Many one-off defence tasks are also addressed here. We have permanent and one-off national defence tasks. And this draft sets out the procedures for their designation, the list of their tasks, as well as everything else concerning this issue. So there's two issues here. I would now also refer a little bit to the minutes of our committee sitting: the questions and answers that sounded there and how we discussed all of this. First of all, our committee chairman, Enn Eesmaa, pointed out that this bill needed more time to be processed. Since 1 January is very soon, we will probably have to propose an amendment on behalf of the Commission so that it is postponed by a few months. And with this, Secretary of Defense Kalle Laanet agreed, who confirmed that the date of entry into force could be somewhat delayed. So it's going to be March 1st or April 1, it's already a job question. Mr Laaneots, my fellow Member, asked whether the Defence Forces were involved in drafting the draft, to which Mr Gross said yes. The Office for Defence Resources and the Defence League have also provided their input. Mr Mati Raidma asked for clarification regarding the organisation of the evacuation and Mr Gross replied that the organisation of the evacuation was provided for in the Emergency Act. The Minister added to him that the Ministry of Defence's administration's contribution to the evacuation process comes through the Defence League. I myself stated that the whole part of the compulsory sentences and duties is very similar to what we already had in our approach to the draft National Defence Act 112, which was withdrawn by the Government of the Republic. The burden was one of the strongest there. We proposed improvements in a light sense of humor. We referred to ourselves as four Musketeers, three esteemed fellow generals, including Johannes Kert, who left us, and I stated that we did not have many improvements in terms of compulsory charges. But, of course, with regard to defence tasks, we had a lot of improvements. We proposed that the State Chancellery and the national defence tasks of all ministries should be laid down in the law. They cannot remain in the hands of secret documents alone, because they must be known to the parties involved, and likewise the public and the people must be aware of who is doing what we do in national defence. Defence Minister Kalle Laanet found that the most sensible thing is to resolve this issue in such a way that the permanent tasks of the State Chancellery and Ministries should be laid down in the new Act on Preparedness for [crisis], which I hope will reach this large hall during this session. My colleague Madis Milling asked how this relates to a possible amendment of the Defence League Act. Margit Gross replied that amendments to the Defence Union Act were under development and that there was close cooperation with the Defence Union. Here is a proposal for improvement concerning the defence tasks of the Defence League. Mr Mati Raidma rightly stated that the focus was on remanding, and we in the Commission dealt with this in greater detail. My colleague, Heiki Hepner, asked for clarification of the amendment concerning the State Budget Act. Margit Gross replied that this concerned the conditions for the disbursement of state funds, which the Government of the Republic can decide during special arrangements. The content of the state budget cannot, of course, be changed on the basis of this law. So much for the issues and points that we addressed at the Commission meeting. We have come to the conclusion that we are proposing this amendment by the Commission in order to postpone the deadline for enforcement, and we also asked for a slightly longer deadline for the Commission to submit amendments, which would be 3 November at 17.00. Here, these specific provisions, the devil, are in tiny details, would need more time and more work so that we can understand them well. There's no question about it. At the meeting on 27 September, the committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft be included on the agenda of the Riigikogu for the first reading and to propose that the draft be closed at first reading. I was appointed rapporteur for the Commission. Given the volume of the draft explanatory memorandum and its annexes, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the President of the Riigikogu that the draft amendments be submitted by a week longer than usual, which I have already mentioned, which is 3 November at 17:00 this year. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U171	Kalle Grünthal can ask. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U172	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The question is the same as Mr. Laantet's. With this law, people can only maintain a seven-day supply of food, the rest will be taken away. It is possible to lift people out of their apartments and homes, to take them to a substitute area. It is possible to apply them to work in such a way that they have to work all the time except for six hours, four hours of which is uninterruptible sleep. There are still such problems here and there are. Basically, I would agree that all of this would be possible, but there is one very slippery point here. The fact that this can be done at the time of the announcement of a heightened willingness to defend, perhaps even tomorrow. Let's say that if the government behaves abusively, is there a possibility that it could be used in this form to violate fundamental human rights?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U173	As for all the possibilities that you brought at the beginning of your question to leave the food supply for seven days, to put people to work by hundreds or thousands, probably during the war we will do these things, if you say so directly, and many other things that you did not list. Luckily we don't have the death penalty right now, we don't put anyone on the wall like we did during the war on freedom. But then they did, too. The war situation is a very difficult situation. Inevitably, we are restricting the fundamental rights and freedoms of people to a very important, even decisive, degree. You are absolutely right about this when you brought it up: this is an opportunity. Is it possible to apply all of this in peacetime? I would say that there is no way to do this in peacetime. For what purpose can this law be applied before readiness has been raised to an elevated level that the Government of the Republic can do? In two cases, it can be done. This can be done for the organisation of additional training gatherings. For example, if a unit called for additional training needs equipment from the civil sector, it is of course reasonable to go through this, too, through the compulsory burden of this equipment. And the second is to support the activities of the Allied units: if the Allied forces were to come here and we needed things, resources, services to be forced into or implemented to support their actions. These are two ways in which we can take certain measures at a time of peace. But, of course, there is also the concept of 'fair compensation' in this draft. If we're gonna do something, we're gonna have to pay people for it, we're gonna have to make up for it. And, of course, we must do this in full and quickly, unless we have some special legal arrangements. Now, raise your readiness. Yes, the Government of the Republic can do that, and I hope it will, if the security situation requires it. I rather fear that this process may be delayed and there will be doubts about the rapid announcement of this situation if we really need to do so. And the control mechanism is necessary and it could be established and, in practice, we will probably carry it out in such a way that once the Government of the Republic has declared ready to raise our readiness, we must confirm it here in the Riigikogu, then an extraordinary session of the Riigikogu is called immediately, where this decision is either confirmed or rejected. That would be the solution to the question of our control, which I am able to propose from my own mind. Of course, there are always things that can be abused, but I sincerely hope that none of our governments will.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U174	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U175	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! It is clear from this that the greatest concern of the national conservatives is still that there is a risk that perhaps the favourable [options] resulting from this law, expropriation and other such things will perhaps be used not only in the context of external threats but also in regulating the domestic policy situation for their own benefit. This is the threat that is evident, and this is where this protection is needed. The Minister, of course, said that, in fact, we have a constitution that protects us from creating it. My personal opinion, of course, is that the Constitution has been devalued and blown open, and it does not defend very much. But here's my particular question. If we look at page 9 of the draft, § 823 states that in the case of a preliminary ruling on forced exploitation or expropriation, the Office of Defence Resources may set certain conditions by means of an administrative act. What does "may" mean? Can this be done without an administrative act?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U176	That's a pretty specific question for you, I'm not a lawyer and I'm not legally competent to answer that question. But we want this longer deadline for the amendments, because then we will go through all these details and see if there are any other places that require a proposal for improvement. Of course, if I start to sum up our group's, we will be able to deal with all of this among ourselves. But I would also say that it is still in place here, as I have already listed: these measures can be implemented in two cases before increasing preparedness. These are additional training gatherings and bringing in allied units. And they can also be applied in the event of an increase in defence or during martial law. This list does not indicate the state of emergency, nor does it indicate the possibility to do so even during the state of emergency. This should be a guarantee that these measures will not be implemented to resolve the national problems to which you referred.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U177	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U178	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I just asked the Secretary of Defense this question here, but I found out it was a classified document. My concern was that if, now, the lists that need to be set up are to be drawn up, it will actually be set out in this document. But we know that quite a number of initiatives have ended with great failure. Major General Palm doesn't have a big role to play in drawing up these lists, does he?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U179	I can't tell who's got a role in it. It has not, in principle, been my job to find out how it is. But you raised the right question as to how much secrecy makes sense in these tasks. I also think that this is my personal position, which, in principle, was supported by the three generals in the amendment proposal, that the basic national defence duties of the State Chancellery, ministries, state agencies and local authorities cannot be secret. They must be written in the law, and when this law of preparedness comes, they must be written in it. That's the solution. And, of course, in the Commission, we discussed how this issue could be resolved. We have had constructive suggestions for improvement, and we have, in fact, I would say, in this way, a version of the duties of the State Chancellery, ministries and other fundamental national defence institutions and local governments. If there is a law on preparedness, we will provide the input through the Commission that our vision is this, please discuss, work through these things. But it's clear that you're right: basic defense tasks can't be written in secret documents anywhere. They must be known to the performers, to the people who do what. The point of the law is to make things clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U180	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U181	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good performer! It is clear to me, of course, that we are now discussing more resources and that there will be a law on preparedness, as you said. However, I cannot fail to ask that border guards are actually like a national defence system, under exactly these conditions. Did you in the Commission also discuss the role of border guards in the national defence system in these, say, emergency situations?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U182	Unfortunately, we did not discuss this in the Commission during the procedure for this draft, but this issue is of course important. We have just discussed in Question Time how quickly border facilities should be built, how quickly monitoring systems should be set up and how many people we have, human resources to guard the border. Of course, the point of your question is what to do with all this. And, of course, it is clear to us that the PBGB needs a reserve for crisis and that this issue must be resolved. This is not about the work of this committee right now, but, if you asked, of course, in the case of the Lithuanian crisis, our position would be quite different if we had created this reserve of crisis, the internal defence reserve. Then we could have called one company or two or three companies and sent them to Lithuania. The barbed wire is good help, but it would have been a second-level aid. But since we have not done so, we can only send a small number of members of the PBGB to help. We don't have enough of them, and they've all been implemented. This is such a more substantive answer, but we did not address it in the Commission within the framework of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U183	Good Leo Kunnas, no more questions for you. Thank you! I will open negotiations and remind you that only the political groups can speak. Neither the members of the Riigikogu nor the political groups have any wish to speak, but the Minister of Defence asked for the floor to comment. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U184	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Commission waitress, Leo, I thank you for your thorough explanations, but I want to add a little bit to the defence agenda that was mentioned here. It's a military-tactical document. Of course, all tasks relating to national defence, as well as expropriation and compulsory use, are within the framework of this law. But when we talk specifically about tactical moves, it goes under the defense plan, and that's why it's secret how much is being moved into. I just wanted to explain it to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U185	I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 417. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 5 p.m. on 3 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U186	We will move on to the fourth item on the agenda: First reading of draft law amending the Land Reform Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Minister of the Environment Tõnis Mölder is welcome to speak. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U187	Thank you, President-in-Office. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! You have before you a draft law amending the Land Reform Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. In the course of the land reform, the purchase price of the land has been paid by way of a deferred payment in such a way that the acquired immovable property is mortgaged to the benefit of the Republic of Estonia. The functions related to the mortgage will be performed by the Land Office instead of the State Support Services Centre. In this context, certain posts also move from the Support Services Centre to the Land Administration. The draft also organises and modernises the regulation of mortgages and buy-out debts in favour of the State, thereby improving the position of the State. For example, the number of persons to whom a buy-out debt may be transferred is limited. From now on, it will only be allowed in the family circle or in the event of bankruptcy when taking over the company's debt. The thresholds shall also be raised in such a way that the minimum annual amount to be paid will be EUR 360 and the hire-purchase can be requested if the buy-out amount is at least more than EUR 1800. Now a little bit more about land reform. Indeed, in the coming weeks, we are celebrating the 30th anniversary of the land reform and, in fact, the land reform needs to move forward in order to complete it once and for all. We have about 19700 rural units on about 16,500 hectares of land without completing all this. The aim of the draft is to make greater use of land management opportunities in the implementation of land reform and thereby speed up the reform of nearly 7 000 land strips that are not available for independent use. According to the current regulation, a piece of land, separate from the strip, was formed and sold by the State to a private person. In doing so, the cadastrals in the rural unit were not merged. In one of the administrative acts, the Land Administration decides on the change of the boundaries of the adjacent immovable property and the amount of compensation and also submits its own application for approval. The procedure is faster and thus more favourable to people. The introduction of building rights will also be simplified by establishing the right to building by means of an administrative act and abandoning additional contracts. In the process of land reform, access routes were often surveyed so that they remained privately owned. The appointment of a private road for public use is decided by the municipality through the imposition of a compulsory holding and is governed by the law on the acquisition of immovable property in the public interest. Unfortunately, the road charge has been set. Therefore, the draft law introduces a general rule in the Land Valuation Act, which can also be used in the public interest to determine a road user fee of 3% of the value of the land. The regulation on the imposition of a compulsory residence is simplified so that the owner of the dwelling can be notified through the building management company and the payment of a compulsory residence fee can be made through the building management company. This reduces the administrative burden, in particular in the public interest, for the installation of utility networks for the exercise of land-use rights [e.g.] electricity and communications networks. The draft provides that if the State needs the land of the municipality in the public interest, the market value of the immovable property acquired by the municipality is to be paid and no additional compensation is to be paid. The distinction is that if it is land previously granted free of charge to the local government, such as land plot provided to it in the course of the land reform, the Estonian state will not pay the acquisition fee and compensate only for the beneficial investments made to the immovable property, such as the investments related to the plan. In the public interest, the draft allows land acquisition to change land-based boundaries so that the land-owner receives the same remuneration and compensation for the cut-off of the immovable property as when the land was bought out. In the course of the land reform, the owner of the building has had a choice as to whether to privatise the land or establish the right to building. In order to reduce the burden of managing contracts, the amendments to the State Assets Act allow the disposal of a large part of the immovable property loaded with building rights in the course of the land reform to the owners of the building. Nearly 90% of these building rights relate to residential land, i.e. a man's home or his cottage. About 1800 such building rights are being added at the end of the land reform. In order to facilitate the buy-out of these countries, the draft stipulates that the sale price of residential land is the price of the 2001 tax. Land with other destinations is sold to the owner of the building at market price. I think this is an important draft because it will, on the one hand, contribute to the end of the protracted land reform and, on the other hand, facilitate land operations to meet other important objectives, including those of the state. The law should enter into force on 1 January 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U188	Peter Ernits would like to ask. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U189	Good manager and minister! It is a pleasure to see the draft, which is not a directive or a cluster of directives, over a long time. But a specific question. Yes, it has been said that [the process is] time-consuming, and now it is going to be less time-consuming and the high administrative burden is being reduced. But can you concretize a little bit, what does that mean that it's time-consuming? How much are we talking about these 7,000 strips now? It's gonna take time to move it where it's supposed to go? And how much time will it take if we adopt this bill? And the second question is the administrative burden. What is the situation now, and what will it be when we adopt the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U190	A number of different factors need to be taken into account here. If we come to these separate plots that cannot be used in any other way than by adding to a particular property, there have been a number of different operations in several institutions, including the Land Administration, who are going to do this merger process and the surveying process. It will be entered in the land register and then these parcels will be merged. If, for example, there's something about changing pieces, you have to go to the notary and confirm it all. It has been a very complex and long process. And once again, in fact [life has shown] that these 7,000 pieces, which are separate pieces that it has not been possible to add to anyone's land, have been hung up. We really hope that adding these rights to the Earth Administration will help to overcome the dog's tail. And actually, what we see is that it simplifies so that the Land Administration gets more rights, the operations go a little faster, these things are done at the same time, and people who really want to add up these plots of land will come to an agreement with each other, do not have to go to the notary on this issue. People also have financial savings. So it could be motivating precisely for the most complex concerns of the land reform [to be removed].
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U191	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U192	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. A little bit of that was mentioned, but I'd like to ask you about a private court settlement. This is a very problematic issue. Could there be some explanation as to the conditions under which and how this order is to be exercised? I just want to understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U193	Thank you. Indeed, this is the most controversial issue, especially in the municipalities. The municipalities, which are supposed to implement this, either forcible or otherwise forcibly enforced, have actually been in trouble with this and have asked for more clarification. We actually see two things here. One thing is that if a country has the opportunity and will and the need to use a section of the road, then the first objective must certainly not be to dispose of that parcel, but to impose forced use on it. This bill actually allows this, and it is much easier to impose forced use. If it is not possible or reasonable to impose forced exploitation for any reason, expropriation could be the next solution that can actually be done at the moment. Once again, however, this rule of law and this bureaucracy has been complicated enough, and local authorities have also pointed out that it has been very difficult to implement such [solutions]. And actually, we see that in the course of the land reform, you have fallen into the hands of a lot of private landowners, and these problems have been in the air. But once again, they have been dealt with in pieces, and I hope that this legislative amendment will help to do it even better. But it's the local governments who have the thick end.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U194	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U195	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, The draft concerns separate housing associations. You also referred to it. And here is also the paragraph that "as the subject obliged to privatise the dwelling, the housing association or the persons holding the dwelling as a movable property are not...', etc. In short, the building management company has been named as one of the subjects. But we also have garage cooperatives, and they actually have the same issues and problems. How will this be resolved in the case of garage cooperatives? I didn't find any reference to that in here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U196	Thank you. That's a good question. I have realized that all such so-called cooperative associations, the garage association and the housing association, are in fact in the business register with the same marks as I know. If I'm wrong, I'm going to have to specify this separately, but as far as I know, these entries go the same way, and this approach is the same way. But maybe that's a good idea. If there are no separate garage cooperatives in this bill, I can clarify it and pass on additional information between the first and second readings. But I understand that they are treated the same way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U197	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U198	Good manager! Good minister! On this first question, you did not sort of concretize, which still means how much this [process] will accelerate. I understand that yes, it is difficult, but how much it is accelerating and how much [time cost] is decreasing. Are there any numbers or estimates? And the second question that I have wanted to ask you is the continuation of my previous question on the proposal of the private forest association, which was not taken into account. The methodology for assessing forest growing in areas of high natural value is being developed as elsewhere. Open up a little bit how far this thing is.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U199	Thank you. I'll start by answering your questions about the fact that there are several aspects. First you asked how much bureaucracy would decrease. Once again, I say that it is very difficult to measure it in days like this, but it is certainly [time cost] that it decreases in the sense that if a person does not have to walk between several institutions, if a person does not have to do several different operations, it is definitely savings. After all, we all know that it may take a lot of time to do one action: it is officially 30 days to reply to the letter, and it may take several months to do some. If you have had three operations so far, to put it figuratively, and you have to do one action instead, then time has certainly been saved. The second, however, is all that relates to the remuneration of notaries. This is the result of the law, the price of the land, and all of this is a specific cost savings for the individual. Now the second question relating to the evaluation of the entire land, including the subject of private forest. In fact, this draft has not dealt with it, and for quite a number of reasons. Firstly, I do not think that this is a specific subject of this draft. And the other side is certainly about the specific dispute between the State and the owner of one private forest specifically on the land assessment system. I think we should wait for this final solution, then the state can take concrete steps, decide [whether at all and if so] how to change this system. If I am not mistaken, as far as I know, the Court of Second Instance has said that the calculation of the State has so far been transparent, clear and fair. But I know that the sense of justice of the private forest federation and, in fact, of the private forest owners is different. I am [meaning] what the state is claiming today. So I am sure that these discussions are ahead of us. But I do not think this is the subject of this bill; it needs a completely different approach.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U200	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U201	Thank you very much. Good minister! Indeed, I was looking at the national business register myself, and still, little of the fact that garage cooperatives exist, we also have building associations. So at least it probably deserves to be clearly copied in the explanatory memorandum that housing companies are defined as this, the second and the third.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U202	Thank you. Look, it's an interactive time these days, and I got that message right now. Our transfer here is being monitored, and the officials said that both the garage association and your last mentioned building association are going down here. In that sense, I had the right argument. But, as I said, we can really clarify this part of the explanatory memorandum between the first reading and the second reading so much that it is equally understandable for both Members and the people most affected by this land reform issue. Thank you for that observation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U203	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U204	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'm interested in the future of this 7,000 unexploited land units. If this law enters into force one day, how many of these land units could be owned by you or by you?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U205	Our great hope has been that if we soon celebrate the 30th anniversary of the land reform, we should not celebrate the 40th anniversary. This day can be celebrated, it is certainly historically important, but, figuratively speaking, at the 40th anniversary, we would not want to talk about the fact that we still have 1000 parcels that we have not been able to divide and which are still in dispute with the owners. So, in fact, the whole package of this draft is still aimed at reducing the most difficult problems we have to deal with today over the next few years. The logic is that in the first 30 years, we've solved the quickest things, the most effective things, the most problem-free things. At the moment, we have on the table the most complex things that I mentioned in my speech and which are not very much. These units are few, these hectares are few, but they are procedurally the most complex cases. The same example of 7,000 plots of land that are shown here. They stand in the air, and no one has an interest in them, or these operations are too complicated. We hope that, according to this bill, figuratively speaking, this number will be reduced by repeating and repeating. Perhaps in two or three years' time, we will come to complement this package once it is clear that there are some problems that we have not been able to complete the land reform. Then we'll be here to solve the least of these problems. But once again, these cases that remain at the end are the most complicated, and here we need this kind of tailoring.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U206	Good Minister, there are no more questions for you. Thank you! And now the Chairman of the Rural Affairs Committee, Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U207	Very honorable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I will pass on what took place in the Committee on Rural Affairs on Monday, 27 September 2021. Members of the Commission included Merry Aart, Erkki Keldo, Ivari Padar, Helir-Valdor Seeder, Andrus Seed and Aivar Viidik. Tõnis Mölder, Minister of the Environment, Glen Roosaar, Adviser to the Ministry of the Environment's Treasury Department, and Triinu Rennu, Deputy Director General of the Land Office were invited. The preparation of the draft law amending the Land Reform Act and other laws for the first reading was discussed. I introduced the agenda for the sitting and gave the floor to the invited guests. Tõnis Mölder introduced a draft law amending the Land Reform Act and other laws, which concerns a total of ten laws. The draft aims to reduce red tape, to bring systems as uniform as possible and to transfer topics that are distributed between different ministries and [other] bodies as a whole to the Land Office. Triinu Rennu gave an overview of the planned amendments to the Land Reform Act and other laws in draft 418. He noted that, inter alia, during the procedure, those provisions which initially went to the coordination circle in the framework of this draft law had been incorporated into the draft law on land valuation, the Land Tax Act and the amendment of other laws. In particular, they concern contracts that are passed on from the land reform to the State and changes in the fees of the contracts when a new periodic assessment is required, as well as how to ensure uniform implementation of the land reform in a situation where, as a result of the regular valuation, the land price and the tax price of the land change significantly. Objective: The general principles of land reform remain the same, but look at how to simplify it. For example, the implementation of land management between private individuals has become so keen that these opportunities are to be used both to facilitate the acquisition of immovable property in the public interest and to deal with the "bands" left by land reform. This year, around 1300 transactions have been made with strips generated by land reform. This is easy for the parties because there is no need to go to the notary, the procedures are done by the cadastral keeper and, among other things, you can apply for confirmation. The purpose of the land management is also to ensure that no part plot is created, but that a unit of land is formed immediately according to the final objective. If the cadastral boundary does not correspond to the actual use, the neighbours can, by agreement, order a surveyor who will provide the data to the cadastral keeper, this will make the entry for the landowner and the landowners will agree to the compensation if they consider it important. I asked how legal certainty would be achieved. Ms Rennu replied that both parties confirmed the wish to change the border. They shall provide a land management plan to draw up a drawing of how the border will be changed, indicating the former and new boundaries. Before cadastral entry, the parties confirm that they have reimbursed each other. The landowners will then make an application for land and the land register will be amended. I was curious that if there was a desire to hand over a strip of land to someone, it would be possible. Mr Rennu replied that this was when a land plan had to be drawn up. If they want to sell most of it, if they still have the ground unit, maybe they're trying to make a covert deal, the Earth Authority won't allow it. The Land Administration, in cooperation with local authorities, controls such activities. Merry Aart wondered if the owner of the driveway still had the right to put a stone in front of the road. Has this situation not been resolved yet? Mr Rennu replied that this draft took a major step forward to facilitate the award of private roads for public use. This means that private roads are awarded for public use through a decision of a compulsory property right. This draft contains rules that simplify it. The main problem is how to set a price, i.e. a fee for use. The proposed draft now contains a guide that can be used by local authorities because it is very expensive and unreasonable to order an evaluation report. Helir-Valdor Seeder asked how to reverse it if the local government has made operations and agreements with the land and there are obligations in this respect. Triinu Rennu replied that the costs necessary for improvement, such as planning or infrastructure building, would be paid to the municipalities. But, for example, the cost of maintaining an existing road will not be paid in 20 years. I asked whether a coercion, rather than expropriation, could be applied to light traffic routes. Triinu Rennu replied that the law provides that if a land unit can be used for its intended purpose, it should not be acquired. If the public uses such a route, it is not very reasonable to impose an obligation on the land, as the administration of forced settlement contracts is a burden in itself. Helir-Valdor Seeder asked whether the conclusion of the building right was mainly of the interest of the State that the land would remain in strategically important places for the State, or whether [the game] was the owner's unwillingness to acquire the land. Triinu Rennu replied that, in the case of land reform, the person had the option of choosing whether he wanted to acquire the land or whether he wanted to acquire the building right. Some have chosen building rights because acquisition is expensive for them. Over time, the circle of individuals who have the right to privatise the land as owner of the building has also changed. In addition, there are areas where land cannot be acquired at all because there are national defence restrictions. Similarly, the acquisition of building rights is not allowed in a situation where there is a public interest. Aivar Viidik asked or asked for an example of the payment of benefits to local governments. He wondered whether there had actually been a confrontation between the State and the municipalities in relation to specific transactions. Triinu Rennu replied that the Ministry of Education and Research, for example, made arrangements with local governments to establish state secondary schools. There is usually no problem, as municipalities are interested in establishing state secondary schools. In the case of Rail Baltic, however, people are sometimes in real trouble. The rule that is now in force would help to ensure that there is no need to argue for such a long time and that there is legal clarity. There is a rule in the Law on the acquisition of immovable property in the public interest, which says that in any case the land can also be granted free of charge if an agreement is reached. According to Andrus Seed, local authorities have many private roads. He was interested in the simplification of the situation of the municipalities by imposing a compulsory occupation. Mr Rennu replied that the appointment of private roads for public use would take place through the imposition of an order. This is an administrative act and, in the case of an administrative act, local governments have the greatest concern about how to set the price. There is now a guide for determining the price. Merry Aart asked me to explain how the forest valuation methodology is and who is doing it. Triinu Rennu replied that the forest valuation methodology was currently being applied on the basis of the Nature Conservation Act. For the purposes of this Decision, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. There is now a guide that can be used by the evaluators. There will be a review of the methodology to assess the growing forest on a market-based basis in the future. A working group has been set up, including the Ministry of the Environment and the Environmental Board. And then procedural decisions were taken: to appoint Tarmo Tamm, Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs, as a rapporteur, to propose that 418 be placed on the agenda of the plenary assembly by 13 October 2021 (consensus), to propose that the first reading of draft 418 be closed. It was also a consensual decision, all of the members of the Commission, Merry Aart, Ivari Padar, Andrus Seed, Tarmo Tamm and Aivar Viidik were in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U208	Kalle Grünthal would like to clarify something. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U209	Thank you! Honourable waitress! You also have an amendment to the Land Valuation Act in this draft. Paragraph 82 is added to the Act, which provides for a fee for the use of a utility network and installation or a road. As a general rule, the user charge is assumed to be 3% of the value of the land. Here's a very spread concept like "general rule," which also provides a way to manipulate. It is clear that this 3% of the value of the land is unfair. And actually, it should be that the state creates another compensation mechanism: for example, it, say, reduces any charge in respect of another tax. But anyway, it's unequal treatment. By the way, the implementing provisions of the First Law of Property Act were also said to be reviewed, but nothing has changed. The question now is whether, in this approach in the Commission, you also touched on this issue, or whether you intend to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U210	Thank you, dear questioner. This has not been addressed in the Commission from the point of view you asked for. But I think that it is possible to propose amendments between the first and second readings, and if the initiator considers that this is necessary and reasonable, it will certainly also be supported. I think it is entirely justified to draw attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U211	No further questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. There are no requests to speak. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 418. We're done with the first reading. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 27 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U212	Our fifth item today is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Electronic Communications, the Building Code and the State Fees Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask Andres Suti, Minister of Entrepreneurship and Information Technology, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U213	Hello, Mr President, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. The Government of the Republic has submitted to the proceedings of the Riigikogu a draft law amending the Electronic Communications Act, the Construction Code and the State Fees Act, which bears the number 437. You have already been familiar with this draft as draft 301, which came to a third reading, but which was removed from the plenary agenda just before that due to the expiry of the time limit for the entry into force of the law. In the new version of the draft, we have changed the deadline for the entry into force of the law, which is now 15 December of this year, and we have also removed the provisions on the retention of communications data from the draft. Although the draft is familiar, I will take this opportunity to speak briefly once again for these main reasons why the Government of the Republic has presented this draft to you for discussion. The development of the draft act stems from the need to bring Estonia's legal area into line with the new Directive 2018/1972 of the European Parliament and of the Council, which establishes the European Code of Electronic Communications. The European Electronic Communications Code regulates the main areas of the whole electronic communications sector, such as market entry, market regulation and supervision, frequency management and numbering issues, and consumer protection issues. The current Electronic Communications Act is also largely based on the European Union legal framework, which consists of four Communications Directives, which have now been integrated into the new Code at EU level. The most important changes to the draft are as follows: Firstly, the introduction of new communications networks and co-investment in networks will be encouraged by opening up communications networks to other communications operators. The opening up of the network of undertakings designated as having significant market power for co-investment by other telecommunications operators will also facilitate the roll-out of new communications networks among operators of different sizes and levels of financial capacity and reduce the cost of building a communications network, which will have an impact on the choice of consumers of communications services and the prices of communications services. As a result, access to high-speed broadband services for the customers of the above-mentioned communications undertakings will be improved. Secondly, the concept of a communication operator is extended to applications provided through a communication network, i.e. so-called "OTT service providers," such as Skype, Viber, WhatsApp, Facebook Messenger and similar. As consumers increasingly use different OTT services, which are similar in nature to traditional communication services, such as calling or sending text messages, such extension is justified in order to protect consumers' rights. At the same time, I would stress that the regulatory obligations of OTT services are bound by the harmonisation of mandatory elements of the contract for communication services, so that the consumer can obtain as much as possible a similar view of the communication service provided to him when he examines the service contracts. OTT service providers, such as traditional Skype, which allow calling to a normal phone or mobile phone number, must also ensure that the consumer has access to 112 free of charge. Thirdly, the requirements for the use of radio frequencies are harmonised. This implies an obligation for Member States of the European Union to do so at the same time as possible when granting radio frequencies, in order to provide the same framework for communications undertakings in a Member State of the European Union to introduce new radio frequencies to facilitate a more coherent development of services across the European Union communications market. It also provides for the possibility of sharing better practices between Member States in the use of frequencies. To this end, an appropriate central consultation mechanism has been set up. Fourthly, the transparency of consumer communications contracts will be increased and the requirement for pre-contractual information and a brief summary of the contract will be introduced. Pre-contractual information shall provide the consumer with as detailed an overview as possible of the communications services offered, which should prevent any subsequent misunderstanding between the nature and reality of the communication service provided in the course of the contract. A brief summary of the contract will provide the consumer with an overview of the most important content of the contract, such as a description of the communication services, remuneration, term, extension, termination and so on. It is important that, when a communication service contract is concluded, both pre-contractual information and a brief summary of the contract become part of the contract to be concluded. Fifthly, a comparison of the price and quality of the service is provided to the consumer in order to give the consumer the opportunity to compare the communications services provided by the various operators. To this end, the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority will complement the existing communication service database, where it is already possible to compare the coverage and possibilities of communication services. Sixthly, the draft formulates the obligations for the notification and authorisation of hardware and software used in communications networks and the audit of the fulfilment of both of their obligations. The aim of these regulations is to ensure and increase the security of current and future technologies used in communications networks. The implementation of this commitment takes into account the joint risk assessment carried out by the European Union in October 2019 on 5G networks, the 5G network security package published in January 2020 and the interests of national security interests, the operational aspects of communications networks and communications operators. These requirements will be necessary for the deployment of 5G technologies, but also more generally for the security of future technologies. The draft also defines the criteria of the 12-year-old, which are taken into account in the procedure for the use of the vehicle and which may indicate a high risk associated with the hardware or software manufacturer or with the maintenance or support service provider. And seventhly, one of the objectives of the draft is to promote the construction of new mobile networks, such as 5G networks. The draft law lays down the obligation to tolerate small cell access points in English for buildings owned by the State or local government units, using low-band radio frequencies. Since 5G needs a more dense base station network, such an obligation will undoubtedly facilitate the establishment of networks by the telecommunications operators. The state or local government unit may charge a reasonable fee for the suffering, if there are certain costs involved. It is important to stress that such an obligation to tolerate is not absolute. It also lays down the grounds for refusal, which include risks to the life or health of persons or to national security. This change also requires the development of the building register, which is already in operation. The Authority for Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance shall supervise the country's farming obligation. For the development of the sector, the draft intends to reduce some state fees in the State Fees Act. For example, a lower state fee is set for 10-digit machine-to-machine numbers that promote the use of the Internet of Things, especially in the context of the development of 5G. Under the current state fee law, one such 10-digit number would pay 35 euro cents and such a price would clearly hold back the uptake of smartness. The State Fees Act now provides for a 10-digit M2M number to be paid in the future at EUR 0,05. Honourable Parliament! I hope that the Riigikogu will take account of the discussions that have already taken place in Parliament and of the significant impact of this legislation on the development of the whole communications sector and its security. For my part, I can assure you that I am prepared to contribute fully to the procedure of the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U214	Peter Ernits would like to ask. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U215	Good manager! Good Andres! I read here that the situation of traffic lights and street lights is getting better. Now, in the run-up to the municipal elections, would you like to fill it up a little bit? You could also mention how I, as a user of WhatsApp or Skype, can use this bill. Now we have returned to the maze of our beloved directives. What's the use of these for traffic lights and street lights, as well as for WhatsApp and Skype users?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U216	Thank you. I think Estonian consumers, including Estonian communications companies and actually the Estonian business sector in general, expect the introduction of 5G, which gives consumers greater user comfort and new opportunities that the Internet of Things allows. If the question is whether, for example, small cells could be placed on street lights or traffic light poles, then that is precisely the need, because 5G requires a lot more masts and transmitters to spread. The use of existing infrastructure for this purpose is reasonable and rational in all respects. So that wins all consumers, wins businesses. And I think the members of the Riigikogu will also win.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U217	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U218	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! It's a good thing the bill came back here quickly. We hope that we will be able to process and accept this at a speedy pace. But here's the question. I remember that sooner than we had this bill in the Riigikogu, your partner, the Centre Party, mainly in the name of the vice-chairman of the political group Andrei Korobeinik, proposed an interruption. At that point, this proposal did not work, but was put to the vote. Have you really reached an agreement with your coalition partner and no more interruptions? Or do we actually see some steps between the first and second readings and perhaps the third readings in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U219	Thank you. The ambassador is free to make his own decisions. I believe that with this bill we can move on nicely from here. As I mentioned in the introductory speech, in the Riigikogu, it is in the Committee on Economic Affairs that this draft has passed very thorough discussions and, indeed, there are only two amendments. One concerns the date and the other concerns the retention of communication data which has been withdrawn. So I believe that this bill is ready for urgent processing and that this bill also has the support of the coalition.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U220	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U221	Good manager! Good waitress! There has been so much talk about broadband, and I too have received all kinds of specific appeals across Estonia, that this is behind stumps, or rather behind different stumps. And now I read here about the social impact that the cost of building a communications network will be reduced and access to high-speed broadband will be significantly improved. Open up some of that background! The current situation is still quite sad all over Estonia. On the one hand, there is, but it hasn't actually arrived. How now, when this bill is adopted, will the situation improve, wherever, in Tabivere or Ollepal or wherever?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U222	I do not agree with this statement that communication is bad everywhere in Estonia. I do fully share the view of the last mile. I have heard it myself as feedback when I have been around Estonia, met entrepreneurs and other people. This is certainly an issue, and for that we have 70 million in the budget to develop the last mile forward. And once this bill is passed as a law, companies will also be able to develop a 5G network. The existence of 5G will certainly contribute to the spread of the high-speed internet not only in the city but also along the highways. And there are definitely situations where this will help solve the last mile's problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U223	Andrei Korobenik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U224	Thank you. Good Andres! You just mentioned that the bill has broad coalition party support. We have a liberal government in office. Liberal politics requires that the state intervenes as little as possible in entrepreneurship, and if it does, it must have a good reason for doing so. I understand that this particular draft can bring quite a lot of responsibilities to communications companies, and the Ministry's opinion is that the potential damage is borne by these companies themselves. Is that true, and do you consider this approach to be liberal?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U225	Well, any change in regulation will have an impact on market participants, whether we are talking about the financial sector or whether we are talking about the communications sector. However, the restrictions imposed by the bill are above all to ensure that our communications network and fast internet are secure. And I think security and liberal world order go hand in hand. I don't see any conflict there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U226	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U227	Thank you. Dear waitress, The question concerns the part of the Electronic Communications Act concerning requirements for communications networks, a service to ensure national security. It has also been supplemented, § 873 (1) of the [Law]: "The hardware or software used for the provision of communications services on the communication network must not jeopardise the security of the State. " I remember we had national security staff in the group who said that the 5G network was not the safest. Right now, I'd like to know from you what a threat 5G software and hardware poses to national security. Maybe you'll list it, I'll remember what the security staff said, and maybe you'll get smarter yourself.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U228	Thank you for your question. 5G in itself does not pose any danger, although 5G technology can pose a threat, whether we are talking about software or hardware, if this provider has different intentions than to develop technology, to provide better services to society if there are backdoors, if there are other considerations involved. So the 5G regulation [from this point of view] is no different from the assessment of, for example, investment in different companies or infrastructure. We do not want, for example, a train control system to be able to turn off someone somewhere far away or to make two trains run together. We must therefore have 100% certainty that the provider of this service and the technology it offers are reliable. There's nothing else complicated about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U229	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U230	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Andres, you have told me several times that if this bill becomes a law, entrepreneurs and operators can start developing 5G in Estonia. But I just got an offer from Telia yesterday: 5G, all kinds of packages, including family packages, mobile life packages, descriptions where it is already in Estonia, where Tallinn, Pärnu, all the other cities, all the stuff-things, there were quite a lot of regions. My question is that you can specify a little more about the situation with the development of 5G networks in Estonia. And where's the contradiction that a little bit goes through what you're saying that when the bill becomes a law, you can start to develop.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U231	Thank you for your question. The spectrum authorisations required for the operation of 5G networks have not been issued, so this cannot yet be done on a large scale. And Telia's offers do not cover the whole of Estonia; rather, we are talking about very small local places. It is good that it exists, but we cannot say today that Estonia is covered with 5G and we can use all the possibilities offered by 5G technology.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U232	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U233	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You said a very important sentence about the fact that hardware and software are not a threat in themselves, the service provider reads. Now I would like to know your clarification of the manner in which service providers may jeopardise the security of our country with regard to communications networks and services, and where these are specified in law, those regulations that guarantee it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U234	Thank you for your question. The 12 points taken into account in the assessment of whether a particular technology or specific hardware may involve a high risk are well listed in the draft. This concerns section 1 (18) of the draft, which is supplemented by the same paragraphs as you referred to. And as I have pointed out in the example of this railroad, I can give more examples of the field of electricity security or self-driving cars. We need to be 100 percent sure that no one else or anyone else can use this technology for some substandard purpose. These 12 points exist, I'm not going to read them here. It's beautifully written in the explanatory memorandum, and they're valued in the collection.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U235	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U236	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I heard you say that this current law created by the Government of the Republic excludes the retention of communications data and that we are taking over the so-called directive. Now, can you tell me exactly what's going on with the communication data on which they're now being stored? Because obviously they are preserved in Estonia, this requirement exists.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U237	Communication data shall also be stored under the law currently in force. The reason they were taken out of here is very simple. The Ministry of Justice is preparing a comprehensive solution on how to regulate the storage of communications data. It is also a desire to bring this regulation into line with the Supreme Court judgment and the preliminary ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union. That's the plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U238	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U239	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Well, this European Court of Justice decision was actually on our table in the spring. If there is now any important new knowledge that members of the Riigikogu should know in order to shape their position on this law, are there plans to introduce this knowledge to the ambassadors? My hope is that the questions that were up here in this Chamber and which we discussed in these night classes have been resolved. [Is that so] and can we get to know this [solution] before the Ministry of Justice comes up with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U240	Yeah, sure! You can see all the amendments tabled by the Ministry of Justice. This is an addition to the bill and, of course, members of the Riigikogu can get acquainted with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U241	Good Minister, there are no more questions for you. Thank you! The Commission's view of the situation is given to us by the Chair of the Economic Commission, Kristen Michal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U242	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the transfer! The Economic Commission discussed the draft law amending the Electronic Communications Act, the Building Code and the State Fees Act on 437 Tuesday, 28 September. The debate was shorter, that this draft has been discussed for a long time both in the Commission and in this Chamber. Last time it was before the same or virtually similar bill was withdrawn. I was here for an hour and a half on the remote, answering questions, and after that, a few more hours of phone calls were held. So let's say that this is one of the areas discussed in depth. The procedural proposals were as follows: to appoint Kristen Michal as rapporteur, to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda on the 13th day, today, and to propose that the first reading be closed. The main issues concerned the pace of the draft procedure. My colleague and vice-president of the Commission, Sven Sester, expressed concern that the draft would continue to move quickly enough. All parties confirmed that it is moving fast enough. Mikhail Stalnukhin was interested in what promises Estonia has made to its partners. Minister Andres Sutt, in reply, recalled the same agreement between Jüri Ratas, Prime Minister at the time, and Mike Pence, Vice-President of the United States. There was also a question of possible financial risks. As the Minister has said here, the transition period for the replacement of technologies is, according to the Ministry, sufficient. The changes were already introduced by the Minister. So it would be such a brief summary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U243	Andrei Korobenik wants to be more specific. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U244	Thank you for such a rather laconic presentation. I remember you here at the courtroom in June. Then you promised me that since there was plenty of time now, and yes, the Committee on Economic Affairs would discuss this in the summer. If we look out the window, it's autumn. Many of my friends are asking who to vote for in the Tallinn elections, and I have concerns about whether this promise has been fulfilled. A politician's word has to be paid. Did this debate take place and, if so, what were the results?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U245	Thank you. The change of seasons is indeed a definite fact, you are not wrong about that. Similarly, the fact is that the Minister was repeatedly involved in the very subject that I touched on here at the time. The Commission has a consensual attitude to ensure that security interests in critical infrastructure can have a certain compensation mechanism, not just for the exchange of technologies. If the state has any changes to make, the subjects would be more quickly and easily involved, and the only way to communicate with the state in such a situation would not be to have a court-martial. The Minister has actually taken note of this, communicated with people in his house, and I hope he has also communicated with other ministries. We will not be able to get out of this debate with this bill either, and I think we will not be able to get out of it in the future. The state has security interests, and every state, not only Estonia, has an interest in making certain changes to critical infrastructure, and the executive authorities could have mechanisms to do so. This conviction has not changed, this communication has been held and the executive has been encouraged to come up with proposals in this regard. Is it gonna get into this bill? I haven't made it so far, but I can't rule it out.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U246	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U247	Thank you. I pressed in my question before you actually gave me the answer with your last sentence. However, I would specify precisely this compensation mechanism. You said you might make it, maybe you wouldn't make it to this bill. What do you predict? Will it or will it not? And if we don't get there, when can we get there? Actually, it's a place of concern, I think, for a lot of people in this hall. There might be an approach that if the state forbids something, it will compensate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U248	In the Commission, we took the same attitude. If the state makes any changes, it requires a change in some technologies, the exchange of information does not only concern a specific draft of communications networks; in fact, it is presumably about security, health and any other public interests in the wider sense may also be affected, such a mechanism could be involved. And according to my personal opinion, it is my personal opinion that such a mechanism could be wider, so that communicating with the state, with the executive at such critical moments, would not be limited to assessing later losses and a possible dispute as to whether compensation is necessary. Today, the Ministry has, as I understand it, acted on [the assumption] and so it is stated in the explanatory memorandum, and the Minister also described it as being sufficient for the transitional period to be granted. The question now is that, if we assume that the Ministry has adequately assessed it and we are already working on this draft, this bill will probably no longer be subject to this amendment. If we assess that the ministry's talk is not adequate and that it has misjudged, then in this draft, this compensation mechanism will come. At the moment, I rather think that the Ministry has made its assessments in full knowledge and in the best faith, and hopefully they are right that this transitional period is sufficient.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U249	Good Commissioner, there are no more questions for you. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. The political groups have no requests to speak. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 437 be completed. We're done with the first reading. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 27 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U250	Today's sixth item is the draft law amending the Port Act, the Maritime Safety Act and the State Fees Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 425. The draft will be presented at first reading by Mr Taavi Aas, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U251	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I will introduce you to the draft law amending the Port Act, the Maritime Safety Act and the State Tax Act. It transposes a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on port reception facilities for the transfer of waste and repeals the earlier Directive. The term "ship waste' shall be used, covering all waste, including cargo waste generated during the work of the craft or during loading, unloading and cleaning operations. The obligation for ships to report ship's waste and to keep records of ship's waste will be changed. The definition of "ship-waste' also covers waste caught passively in professional fisheries which is caught in fishing gear, such as abandoned fishing gear and any other marine waste. Their transfer shall not be subject to a separate charge in the port, but shall be subject to a port charge for the receipt of the ship's waste included in the port charge. The Directive harmonises the requirements of the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships with EU law. The draft concerns port managers and users, waste operators, the Transport Board and the Environmental Board, which supervise the requirements laid down in the Act. According to the draft, a ship normally calling at the port must be able to dispose of all waste generated by the ship. In order to ensure this, ports must prepare in advance plans for the reception and management of waste ships, which determine the need and capacity of port reception facilities, taking into account the vessels calling at the port. There is a regulation in Estonia. The drawing up of a ship's waste reception and management plan is mandatory for port authorities. The legislative changes will help to better control pollution in the marine environment and, in addition, will reduce the workload of public authorities. Changes also motivate ships to transfer all waste in ports, as they have been previously consulted in the preparation of plans for the reception and management of waste from ships and, therefore, the possibility for ports to transfer all waste generated during the voyage has been created. The port charge shall also include an indirect charge for the reception of ship's waste. Therefore, the port visitor is motivated to transfer all waste in the port, as it is not obliged to pay for the disposal of the ship's waste separately. As a whole, changes will reduce the workload of public authorities. The managing body of a small port meeting certain conditions will reduce the administrative burden, while the administrative burden of the remaining ports will remain the same. Now, specifically, changes. First of all, the obligation to consult when drawing up a plan for the reception and management of waste from ships. The obligation to consult means that the managing body of the port draws up or amends a new waste management plan. Where it does so, it shall consult with port users, the competent authority, port reception operators, bodies fulfilling the principle of extended producer responsibility and civil society. A new requirement is for ports to also listen to the needs of customers, or ship owners, and to the local government, which organises waste management within the limits of their powers. Most port authorities already consult their users in different ways in different areas, so the requirement does not lead to a significant increase in administrative burden. The amendment will have a positive impact on the marine environment as the consultation will result in the preparation of plans for the reception and management of ship waste corresponding to ports and customers' needs. It creates the conditions for a customer visiting the port to be able to hand over the ship's waste generated on board in the port and does not result in the discharge of ship's waste into the sea. The second amendment, the approval of plans for the reception and management of ship waste every five years. Instead of the previous three years, the Directive now provides that a plan for the reception and management of ship waste must be submitted for approval at least every five years. The amendment reduces the workload of port authorities, the Environmental Board and the Transport Board. Proposed amendment No 3. Small ports fulfilling certain conditions are no longer required to draw up a ship's waste reception and management plan. The requirements for drawing up a ship's waste reception and management plan shall not apply to small ports which do not provide paid port services and are located in an organised waste shipment area and which have been ensured by the keeper that small ships arriving at the port are informed in good time of the procedures for receiving and transferring ship's waste. A small port fulfilling these conditions shall in turn inform the Environmental Board thereof. No paid services are provided in 104 ports in Estonia. This change will reduce the workload and administrative burden of the Environmental Board and the qualifying small port. The fourth amendment, the indirect port charge, also applies to recreational craft and fishing vessels. In other words, regardless of whether the ship transfers the ship's waste in the port, it must pay an indirect charge which is included in the port fee. This amendment calls on port building users to give up all ship's waste in port and to prevent ship's waste from entering the sea. The amendment does not concern smaller ports where ship-waste transfer charges are already included in the port fee. The port register procedure environment needs further development to meet the requirements of the Directive. It is necessary to complete the current procedure for the coordination of waste management plans and to establish an interface with the electronic marine information system on the X-Road. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The legislative changes will help to better control pollution of the marine environment and make it easier for port visitors to transfer ship's waste and ensure a better flow of information between port visitors and port authorities with a view to ensuring that ship's waste does not enter the sea. I ask you to support the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U252	Members of the Riigikogu would like to ask. Please, Peter Ernits!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U253	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. I read here that a year, 15 tons of fishing nets are pulled out of the sea, which must then be handed over for a port fee. It accounts for 20% of all debris coming out of the sea or lake. And the rest of it, these plastic dishes and stuff, it's 60%. Consequently, there should be 45 tonnes of the amount to be received by ports at port fees. Can you tell me if the ports are happy about this and are able to accept this amount of 15 and 60 tons?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U254	Thank you. I'll answer in two parts. Surely they are not happy when they are brought into these nets, but they are capable of receiving them. And, as the bill states, there must be no charge for finding such garbage so that the finder would not be tempted to slip it back into the sea quietly, but would be aware that he will be rid of it for the reward he has already paid.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U255	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U256	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I'd like to talk about databases, I'd like to talk about the STCW job placement, the certificate of competence. I ask whether Estonia would have the opportunity to exchange the certificates of Ukrainian seafarers who have been issued them both in Ukraine and Russia, against Estonian work diplomas. To that end, we should add an e-residency to § 32 of the Act. My question is whether Estonia's e-residency is so strong today that we can give it a chance. We are talking about the collection of millions of euros into the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U257	Thank you. After all, we have a program to bring ships under the flag of Estonia. It also describes the procedure of conduct and payment by crew members, their obligations, their rights. As far as e-residency is concerned, I do owe you an answer here, but I think we can clarify it outside the hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U258	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U259	Good manager! Good minister! You said, in answer to my previous question, that ports wouldn't be happy if they had to accept these nets, plastic plates, bottles and other stuff. But now the Union of Ports complains that this bill states that if they do not obey, they can be punished with EUR 100000, and they complain that it is too harsh, a triple rise, such a slob. The explanatory memorandum states that a bar can actually give them 400,000. Do you think their proposal is reasonable, or are they just complaining about mercy, and could still be much lower than that possible fine?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U260	Thank you. The fact is that today there is a procedure where a financial fine of between EUR 100000 and EUR 400000 can be imposed, and this draft, which we are currently dealing with, sets a ceiling of EUR 100000. In fact, this limit is already brought down considerably, i.e. 400000 [instead] will reach a maximum of 100000. So there's been a response.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U261	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U262	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! This right now, what we said, it's defined. This is a so-called new initiative that we have not yet seen. We do not want these Ukrainian officers to fly our flag, because they will travel anywhere, but they can exchange their work diploma for the Estonian diploma, either in Ukraine or Russia, because Estonia has a good reputation and these courses would cost EUR 2 500 to 3000. Given that they have 150,000 sailors there, one third of whom are ship officers, no matter how many of them come here, Estonia would be an e-first predecessor here before everyone starts to storm it. The only catch is whether our e-residency can be included in the Crew Act § 32.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U263	Thank you. I think it is not right to decide this quickly, because on the other hand we must also protect our seafarers and our seafarers' jobs. If such a proposal comes, it will have to be considered in full, and the sector will also have to discuss thoroughly what this could lead to.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U264	Good Minister, there are no more questions for you. Thank you! Now by the Committee on Economic Affairs Annely Akkermann. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U265	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen here-- and over there on the screen! The Government of the Republic initiated a draft law amending the Port Act, the Maritime Safety Act and the State Fees Act. It was discussed at the meeting of the Government on 12 August; it was handed over to the Riigikogu on 13 September and accepted into the procedure on 14 September. On 20 September, the Committee on Economic Affairs decided to appoint a rapporteur for this draft here. The decision was taken by consensus. Here were the speakers, Riho Breivel, Jüri Jaanson, Raimond Kaljulaid, Kristen Michal, Sven Sester and Mikhail Stalnukhin. On 27 September, Minister Taavi Aas presented the draft to the Committee on Economic Affairs. The speaker wondered whether the substantive changes concerned only the introduction of directives or the replacement of one other. Since the amendment of the previous Maritime Safety Act, the principle was introduced that the law does not mandate the Minister, by regulation, to establish the format of the database, but to provide a list of the data that it must contain. I found that this type of amendment was not the result of the directive, and I examined whether there was anything else in the draft that was not the result of the directives, apart from the change due to this practice. The Minister replied that there was nothing else in the draft that was not the result of the directive. Following the discussion, the Committee on Economic Affairs adopted the following decisions: Firstly, to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda today, 13 October. And secondly, to propose that the first reading be stopped. Both decisions were taken in a consensual manner and the participants here were Riho Breivel, Jüri Jaanson, Raimond Kaljulaid, Kristen Michal, Sven Sester and Mikhail Stalnukhin. Since the Minister has just introduced the draft in detail, I will not repeat it. You can ask if you want.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U266	My colleagues don't have any questions. Thank you! The lead committee has proposed to conclude the first reading of draft 425, but before we go to it, it will be possible for the political groups to express their views during the negotiations. That's not what you want. Then we will stick to the proposal to finish the first reading and it will be finished. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 27 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U267	Today's seventh item is the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act and the State Assets Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 426. On behalf of the Government, it is again introduced by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Taavi Aas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U268	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has submitted a draft law amending the Electricity Market Act and the State Assets Act to the Riigikogu for processing on 2 September 2021. Presentation of the draft to the Economic Commission took place on 27 September. The draft will transpose the directive on the internal electricity market into Estonian law. The Directive is being transposed by amending the Electricity Market Act and the State Assets Act. The draft will increase the role of consumers in achieving flexibility in the electricity network. This is necessary to adapt the electricity grid to continuously changing generation and distributed generation of renewable electricity. This will ensure a transparent and competitive electricity market allowing consumers to supply electricity at competitive prices while ensuring security of supply and energy and climate policy objectives. The draft law adds to the obligation for the network operator to integrate in a cost-effective manner new electricity generation technologies, in particular renewable energy generation units, and consumption loads from new consumption loads such as heat pumps and electric vehicles, and to use distributed energy sources such as demand response and energy storage on a market-based basis in order to efficiently operate their networks and avoid costly grid expansion. There is no news that effective competition is important in retail markets. Estonian energy markets have always believed in a competitive approach. This is needed, inter alia, to ensure the deployment of innovative energy services such as consumption management, aggregation or storage units. These services respond to the changing needs and capacities of consumers and make our electricity grid more flexible. This draft also allows and supports. Empowering consumers by more specific legal differentiation of their rights and obligations in order to participate more in the energy market, benefit consumers from the internal electricity market and contribute to the achievement of renewable energy objectives. At the same time, such changes will enable consumers to stand up for self-produced electricity even more strongly than before. This will allow consumers to have better control over energy prices in the context of a very topical issue today, i.e. high electricity prices. By transposing the Directive, the draft introduces an amendment to the State Assets Act. According to the amendment, the appointment committee mentioned in the State Assets Act at the general meeting of the largest distribution company in Estonia proposes the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board of the distribution company. This approach increases the independence of the distribution system operator from the parent company, whose activities include the development of charging infrastructure and storage facilities. The distribution network operator is in possession of information which is an important tool for the development of such business activities. As competitors in other markets do not have such information, the independence of the distribution system operator from the rest of the group needs to be increased. That's what this bill does. Thank you and I ask you to support the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U269	You have questions too. Starting with Sven Sester.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U270	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Well, you were moaning in front of you, moustache. You tried to make this bill very boring, but it's not boring at all. I would perhaps put aside the nuances to be taken over by this directive and talk about what is not really involved in the directive and what you may have mentioned at the end to some extent. There are rumors on the market that Eesti Energia is wanted to be cut up, and this is a plan that goes beyond that. Hence my question: is this true or not? In principle, this draft provides here, as in the first direction, that in the case of electricity distribution, it is no longer possible for the owner to appoint members of the council. That sounds really weird. Basically, you're responsible for the company's economic results and economic decisions, but in fact, the board members are no longer you, but somebody else. How do you comment on that? Is it true that you have some sort of longer plan, and is this a short-term step in this direction?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U271	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that the part concerning the designation of the Board of Electricity is, in fact, a result of the directive. The aim of the Directive is to increase transparency. There is currently a large network operator in Estonia who has information about Estonia's electricity grids and this information is the basis for increasing the number of charging points or storage places, for example. In short, we have a company that has more information about other companies. Since the aim of the directive is to increase flexibility and transparency, these two things are certainly very closely linked. Now for two. The members of the Supervisory Board are still appointed by Eesti Energia, or the parent company. However, the nomination committee, like other boards of Estonian companies, proposes who could be members of the board. The final decision remains with the parent company. If a parent does not agree with a member of the supervisory board, it can make a reasoned counter-proposal to the nomination committee. As far as the separation of Elektrilev from Eesti Energia is concerned, I think that no process makes sense[if it is simply happening for its own sake]. But in a situation where Eesti Energia is a manufacturer and the subsidiary of Eesti Energia is the owner of distribution networks, I think, there is no reason to say no to considering whether this should be the case in the future. We still want us to have as clear, fair and transparent competition as possible in Estonia, and this can at least be considered on the basis of this principle.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U272	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U273	Good manager! Good waitress! We have come back to the world of directive. There will be directives again, we will take them over. But the energy is on a particularly sharp side right now. Please shed some light on the topic of the energy communities, which should begin to emerge. Why don't you tell me a little bit about these animals? I'm reading here, and please don't answer me what it says. But what are they gonna be like? How big could they be? How many could arise a year, for example, when we adopt this draft, and how does the state really support their emergence?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U274	Thank you. The state can support their emergence by promoting them in legislative terms. It is still a voluntary activity, and the state certainly cannot force anyone to participate in the energy community. These opportunities are, in fact, already present today. Energy communities can be very diverse. There may be energy communities that are active in energy production, it is wind energy or solar energy. There may be energy communities that join on the principle that they agree on energy consumption and enter into a contract with an energy supplier that, if, for example, there is high demand on the market, they will reduce consumption and thus have the opportunity to earn. And there may also be such a community that, at some point in the market, if there is a situation where, on the contrary, consumption needs to be increased, there is already an agreement with the energy supplier that they are the ones who react and increase consumption. I think that's it. Or was there another question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U275	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U276	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I'm completely confused about your answer, and I don't know how to proceed now. You mention that the directive provides a guideline, but you know, we have received a black, white letter from Eesti Energia. It's in the public document register. You can find it. It states: "Directive (EU) 2019/994 does not prohibit or restrict the right of a member of the management board of a vertically integrated undertaking to belong to the board of a distribution system operator which is part of a group of undertakings. " Vertical means parent and subsidiary. "In contrast, both the Directive and the Electricity Market Act explicitly recognise the right of the parent company to exercise economic and managerial supervision over the distribution system operator's subsidiary, which can only be exercised through membership of the supervisory board. " They make it clear that the statement made by MKM in the draft explanatory memorandum is therefore misleading and erroneous and is not necessary in the context of the directive. Hey, who's bluffing now? Is it malicious, or has it happened by accident, or is it Eesti Energia bluffing? Let's get this straight. It also goes to the record that a very interesting situation has now arisen. Please tell me which provision of the directive you are currently relying on. Maybe you'll quote it to me, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U277	Thank you. As I said, the directive is working to ensure that our energy market is as transparent as possible. The situation in which a subsidiary, in turn, opens up a very specific link between a subsidiary and these two subsidiaries, and through this link information about the network's potential to join to build up, for example, the charging infrastructure, is certainly not in line with the idea of the directive. Yes, I am familiar with the claims made by Eesti Energia. The claim of Eesti Energia was rather that they could no longer appoint members of the Supervisory Board. No one has taken that right away from them. As I said, the nomination committee proposes and Eesti Energia either agrees with this proposal or does not agree with this proposal. If he doesn't agree, of course he'll have to justify it. In the same way, as a minister, I am expected that the companies whose general meeting I am will comply with the law and be successful. I, too, have the opportunity to accept or disagree with the nomination committee's proposals. At the same time, I continue to have the right to appoint the Council.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U278	A procedural question, Sven Sester.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U279	Thank you, Mr President. What do you have to do now if you ask the minister one thing and you want to know which one is bluffing when one says one thing and the other, but the minister doesn't answer it, but speaks another thing? Maybe you can help what a vigilante has to do in this room now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U280	It's a constant dilemma for us in this hall. [[Laughing.]] No very good advice has been made up yet, but it can naturally be brought to the attention during the speech and perhaps, through some colleagues who have not yet asked questions, continue to dissect the subject. But, yeah, there's no good advice. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U281	Yeah, I can't help my colleague Siser right now because I'd like to ask for this... But you didn't answer. I asked for the directive to give us another chance, and everything else, we will take over. But how many such energy communities could occur in the next year, for example, and how viable are these animals? Or are they going to be like savings and loan cooperatives, which are also for small company and community interests, but really they stay squeamish next to banks?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U282	Thank you. Well, not all savings loan unions are squeaky-squeaky. There are indeed small savings loan cooperatives, but they may be very necessary for their area. These energy communities, too, need not be large. In some small areas there may be a small energy community. It can be said that there is currently one assembly unit on the core network that is working on monitoring energy demand and mostly working in the direction that if there is high demand, the burden will be reduced. However, as I said, there is also a possibility that at some point there might be a proposal to increase the burden. There's one of these aggregates today, but that doesn't mean there's no more of them in the future. The transposition of this directive, the law that we are dealing with, is so that there will be more of it in the future, so that our flexibility in electricity networks is greater.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U283	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U284	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, On the basis of the question raised by my colleague, I will try to simplify a bit. The appointment of the members of the Board of Electricity may be proposed by Eesti Energia, and a nomination committee may also be proposed, but it is like a system of two green buttons. Both must agree and, if both agree, Eesti Energia can appoint these members to the Elektrilevi council. Is this the case, and that is the current draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U285	Yeah, that's exactly what you described.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U286	Thank you very much. There are no further questions for the Minister. We can go to the co-report. The co-rapporteur is Jüri Jaanson, member of the Economic Commission. When we come to the questions, I have some details here. Here you go, Jüri Jaanson!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U287	So I'm asking for three hours of extra time. [[The manager's laughing.]] Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, as many as you are in the Chamber! It is my job to shed light on what has taken place before the first reading at the meetings of the Commission. The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 13 September and dealt with at two meetings of the [Commission]. In the first of these, the bill was called a waitress, a waitress for the commission, Jüri Jaanson, or I. A substantive debate took place at the second session. The first meeting of the Commission took place on 20 September and the second on 27 September this year. At the second session, the esteemed Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure presented us with a draft law, as is now the case here in Saalisk. He was also asked some questions. Interest was expressed, as here in the saalisk, whether the formation of these interlinks, or community aggregates, is mandatory or voluntary. This gives people a flexible opportunity to deal with their own electrical supply. That was the Minister's explanation for this question. Sven Sester, who thought that the issue of Elektrilevi had to be dealt with more widely, initiated the second major theme block. He was concerned that if the Board of Electricity were to start setting up someone other than the owner, there would be a situation where the owner had no control over the appointment of the members of the Board. It can also cause problems and questions. Sven Sester asked for clarification on the next steps and their purpose. Minister Taavi Aas replied that the final decision on the appointment of the Council would in any case be taken by the owner, but that the proposals would come from the nomination committee. This is driven by a level playing field for all market participants and fair competition. This is what a directive requires. The Minister explained this also here. For the future, the Minister explained earlier that the topic of possible sharing of Eesti Energia will certainly be discussed, but this must be preceded by an analysis that also considers the economic consequences. Sven Sester stated that the transposition of the Directive and the appointment of the members of the Board of Electricity were unrelated and asked whether there was currently a belief that there was unfair competition. The minister replied that today he doesn't know they're being treated unfairly. The directive is rather aimed at increasing competition in the market. There may be some places within the country that do not work as foreseen in the directive, and then steps must be taken to reduce the risk. So, according to the Minister, the two activities mentioned above are interrelated. Sven Sester also examined whether the holder had been given the opportunity to take decisions in disagreement with the appointment committee decision. In addition, Sven Sester felt that the independence created for the subsidiary was apparent. The Minister explained that Eesti Energia can also make proposals to the nomination committee itself, which could be members of the Supervisory Board of Elektrilev. It is important that the nomination committee agrees with them before Eesti Energia can appoint members of the Supervisory Board of Elektrilev. Then the Minister explained that this is basically the same principle that applies to the state companies today and, in the case of subsidiaries, the distinction applies only to electricity distribution. The Commission also asked why the bill reached the Riigikogu with such a long delay. The Minister explained that the reason for this was the same issue of electricity distribution. Rein Vaks, Head of the Energy Market Sector at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, added that the draft had actually been completed last year, but there were close negotiations on the independence of the Council. Sven Sester asked for the opportunity to comment before taking decisions that he felt that the draft should be directed towards the first reading and that it should be concluded. In his opinion, however, we do have a number of issues at national level that need to be addressed, and he believes that we want to take concrete steps which he doubts as to their purpose. The Commission's decisions were as follows: Propose to place a draft on the plenary agenda on 13 October 2021, i.e. today. It had 5 votes in favour, 0 against and 2 abstentions. Secondly, it was proposed to close the first reading. It also had 5 votes in favour, 0 against and 2 abstentions. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U288	It is possible to ask questions, but there are no questions. Thank you very much. We can go to the negotiations. That's not what you want. In this case, the proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 426. First reading is complete. The deadline for tabling amendments is 27 October at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U289	We will proceed with the next item on the agenda. This is the first reading of the Financial Supervision Authority Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act amending other laws 422. The rapporteur is Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of Finance. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U290	Thank you, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! You have before you a draft law amending the Financial Supervision Authority Act and several other laws, which makes three types of changes concerning the powers of the Financial Supervision Authority. Firstly, the Financial Supervision Authority will be empowered to supervise the providers of crowdfunding services. The second amendment concerns information published by banks and other financial institutions on environmental sustainability and sustainability risks, i.e. more well known than information related to greentech. And the third amendment concerns the sharing of information between foreign exchange issuers and their shareholders in Estonia. A brief change in detail. First of all, about crowdfunding. For the first time, Estonian legislation provides legal bases for the area of crowdfunding services. The European Union regulation, which requires crowdfunding providers to apply for authorisation and provides for different investor protection requirements, was approved last year and, although directly applicable, some provisions have to be transposed into national law by the Member States. In particular, as has been said, this current draft provides for a mandate for the Financial Supervision Authority, according to which crowdfunding service providers will be able to apply for authorisation from the Financial Supervision Authority and the Financial Supervision Authority will also be able to supervise crowdfunding service providers. The draft also provides for supervisory fees for crowdfunding providers. These are a one-off fee for applying for a licence of EUR 1000 and an annual current supervisory fee depending on the size of the mediated investments. What is important to note is that these requirements only concern companies and crowdfunding platforms that offer opportunities to invest in companies. In other words, crowdfunding platforms that provide purely consumer credit are out of the scope of this EU regulation. The second part concerns sustainability and green tea in the financial sector. The Financial Supervision Authority will have supervisory powers over banks, investment firms and insurance companies in relation to the disclosure of information on sustainability risks and environmental sustainability. These are information on sustainable financing. Information disclosed by financial market participants is, for example, the principles of taking sustainability risks into account in their investment decisions, remuneration policies and, for example, in investment advice. In other words, how sustainability objectives are met, whether and to what extent the taxonomy criteria for sustainable financing are respected and how much of the activity meets the taxonomy criteria for sustainable financing. These are examples. These requirements, in turn, come from two EU regulations. Firstly, the European Union's regulation on the disclosure of information by financial market participants, and secondly, the European Union taxonomy regulation. The third part of the changes, as has been said, concerns communication between stock exchange companies and shareholders. In itself, the requirements of the European Union Directive on shareholders' rights were transposed into Estonian law already in November 2019. The main objective of these amendments was precisely to promote communication between stock exchange companies and their shareholders and to increase the possibility of participating in general meetings of small stockholders in particular. After these requirements have been implemented, there is a practical need to clarify these provisions by applying certain requirements to securities that are not registered in the Estonian register. In other words, how would the necessary information come to the shareholders regarding companies that are not registered in the Estonian register, but whose participation is held by Estonian shareholders. In general, the banks that are located here mediate this information to Estonian shareholders, but it is also made clearer that the information exchanged does not have to be treated as banking secrecy, which would otherwise limit the transfer of such information. This is one necessary and good bill. Thank you for your attention and I hope that this will receive overwhelming support from Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U291	Thank you very much. There are questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U292	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. I would like to ask you, as the former Minister for the Environment, to open up the connection between the adoption of this directive and the green turn. In general, everything is beautiful, but a little bit concrete. The turn of green as it comes and is right, but how it relates to this draft, which is once again behind our lovely directive. Why don't you fill in some of that background?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U293	Thank you for your question. I'd love to. As has been said, the Financial Supervision Authority will in future have the power and authority to monitor precisely how the various risks of climate change and green reverse are considered in investment decisions and financing decisions. One example may be a situation where investments have been made in one company or another, such as a plant on the seaside, and there may be an increased risk of flooding in this region, potentially linked to climate risks. How these risks have been taken into account, this information will be supervised by the Financial Supervision Authority in the future. They check whether these risks have been taken into account and how investors have been informed about this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U294	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U295	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I'm sure you had a very interesting presentation, but I couldn't concentrate on it in any way because I was troubled by a big problem. In fact, you promised in Question Time that you would send me a written COVID patient overview of hospitals. And after we talked to TV3 at the cameras, you said yes, you're sending it right away. It's about five o'clock, and there's still no review. What's this about?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U296	Thank you, good questioner! If I am not interrupted by the President of the sitting, because this was not a question relating to this draft, I would say that I really did not think that the working day was already running out at 5:30. My workdays are usually much longer. I have to say that I have not been able to deal with this issue since I left Question Time. I've had a series of tasks that I've had to do, and I've come right here from a meeting before. As I have assured you, these data will definitely be sent. I gave you some information, but I understand it wasn't exactly what you meant. This needs to be clarified and you will probably receive this information as promised.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U297	No, I'm not interrupting you, but let's really focus on the bill. Please, Kalle Grünthal, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U298	I very much apologize for the brutal intrusion into this important debate. I thank you very much for your promise, but the question is that Kaja Kallas has announced that this data is all there and will be restricted to us on this basis. So why don't you just make a call and have the data sent? You don't have to go anywhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U299	Thank you for this procedural clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U300	Actually, it wasn't procedural. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U301	Good manager! Good minister! I am not asking about the corona, but I will continue to mention that it has been said here that sustainability risks must be taken into account for the various products. Take Swedbank, for example. They have many different products, and the Financial Supervision Authority is now going to act in the green wind under this directive. Describe it! For example, we take the risks of the financial capacity of the various products of a large bank in the light of the green turn. Open up a little closer!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U302	Thank you. I also did so in answer to the previous question. It is, in itself, a duty to disclose this information already. As far as this bill is now concerned, it is about empowering the Financial Supervision Authority to verify whether the disclosure obligation is being complied with and how it is being complied with. An example is the situation in which the company must describe the principles on which it takes into account, for example, these same climate risks and how it follows the obligation to inform the [client] of these risks when making investment decisions and providing insurance advice. This is what the Financial Inspectorate is going to control. In the past, the principle that information on risks must be disclosed already applies. I'm not going to read the explanatory statement right now, but on pages 3, 4 and 5 of the explanatory memorandum, it's quite detailed. I'm sure you'll get even more detailed answers. But yes, the content of the amendment is new, not that [these risks] need to be taken into account, but that the Financial Supervision Authority will have the power to verify how account has been taken of climate risks, how sustainability has been taken into account and how customers are informed about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U303	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U304	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, Indeed, we have now heard how the Financial Supervision Authority should also start monitoring the grassroots. But my question concerns crypto financing. We have actually heard that there are doubts about this in the context of money laundering. Has our legislation already been regulated enough that it has not been included in this draft? We're dealing with the future, but what worries us today, we're not.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U305	Thank you. Regulation on crowdfunding platforms is certainly also important. In this sense, these two are not opposite things. This draft does not really concern crypto financing and values. There are risks in this sector. We have sent a draft to the coordination circle to help mitigate these risks. This round of coordination is freshly over, so we have received quite a lot of fresh feedback on the proposals to make the sector more transparent and also more rigorously regulated. This is the period when we are going through all this feedback, and I hope that we will be in front of Parliament very soon with these changes, because there is a need for changes in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U306	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U307	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I wouldn't have asked, but I got confused about the answers to Peter Ernits' questions. In my opinion, control of the green turn also requires a little environmental knowledge. Does the Financial Supervision Authority have such competence, or do they employ people in the sector, or is this control going to happen more precisely? This knowledge of the green turn is very specific.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U308	Thank you. That's a very good question again. Once again, this draft does not regulate in any way what information needs to be published or what information needs to be analysed. As far as the principles and principles of greening and sustainability at all are concerned, Estonian law already lays down. But what has so far been unregulated is precisely how and whether or not there is monitoring of whether or not these requirements are being met. This amendment relates to the Financial Supervision Authority and to the power of the Financial Supervision Authority to verify whether the information that must be disclosed has been disclosed in the way it must be made public. And simply, for example, that those with disclosure obligations have market participants such as banks and investment firms providing portfolio management services, as well as investment fund managers, insurance companies offering insurance-based investment products, and occupational retirement provision institutions and pension providers under the relevant EU regulations. They are obliged to publish information on how they take into account these same sustainability risks and climate risks in their activities. One example. If an investment has been made in an area that may become a flood area due to climate change in the future, then whether this risk has been taken into account and not only taken into account, but whether information on it has been made public as requested. This is what the Financial Inspectorate is going to control for disclosure. Understandably, this is an investment risk. If these climate risks materialise, the investment may lose value. So that was an explanation and for example. It is true that, of course, the Financial Supervision Authority also needs to train and recruit people who are competent in this area and to create appropriate positions or to give additional tasks to existing ones. This is a relatively new area, but it is likely to be a growing area. That's something you have to think more about in the future anyway. The Financial Supervision Authority has been aware of this for some time now that they are facing this change and that they have to deal with this area so that they have done preparatory work.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U309	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U310	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I also read in the explanatory memorandum that annual reports must, for example, provide information on how sustainability goals are met, etc. That's what you opened up here. That's what my question is about. You've already started answering that question, but I'd still like to know a little bit more. How much resources have been planned for the Financial Supervision Authority, both the money and the people who are going to read these annual reports, and what are sanctions if, for example, when reading the annual reports, it is discovered that it is still not accurately reflected?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U311	Thank you. Well, at first, before going to sanctions, there is certainly reason and opportunity to advise, because this is a relatively new area not only for the Financial Supervision Authority, but more broadly. At present, all who are affected are making efforts and learning in this regard. So I think there is a need to draw attention before going to punishment, and I do not think that anyone maliciously fails to disclose anything, rather than getting used to the new requirements. So this is something that the Financial Supervision Authority will definitely do, and the Financial Supervision Authority will prepare its own composition for this. How many people are going to do exactly a specific task... [[H. Hepner will specify the floor.]] How? It's not meant to be, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U312	Thank you very much. There are no further questions for the Minister. We can go to the co-report. Chairman of the Finance Commission, Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U313	Thank you, Mr President. Good Riigikogu! The Committee on Finance discussed the preparation of a draft of 422 first reading, including on 27 September. The meeting was attended by Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Head of the Department of Financial Markets Policy Thomas Honourable and Adviser Valner Lille. The Minister of Finance introduced the draft and answered the questions. In addition to the green issue, there was a question of how many of these draft crowdfunding platforms could be concerned. We learned that there are 30 different crowdfunding platforms operating in Estonia today, and 10/15 of them are those falling within the scope of this draft. These are precisely the crowdfunding platforms that can be used to invest in businesses. There was also a question of involving stakeholders, as the draft has relatively few comments. We were assured that everyone was involved and that there were no comments from the sector. Nevertheless, the Committee on Monetary Affairs sent a letter to stakeholders that if they had additional views, they could report it to the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The letter went to the Estonian Private and Venture Capital Association, the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Financial Supervision Authority, FinanceEstonia, the Estonian Insurance Association, the Estonian Banking Association, Eesti Pank and Nasdaq Estonia. At the end of the debate, the Commission made consensual decisions to close the first reading of the draft and proposed that the deadline for amendments be 10 working days, i.e. 27 October at 5.15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U314	Thank you. There are no questions and I can open negotiations. But you don't seem to want to negotiate either. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 422 be completed. The first reading is closed and the deadline for submitting amendments is also 27 October at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U315	Let's go to the last item on the ninth item today. To this end, the Government of the Republic has initiated the first reading of Bill 431 of the Amending State Budget Act 2021. The rapporteur is Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of Finance. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U316	Thank you, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! You have before you the draft law amending this year, the National Budget Act 2021, which I would ask not to confuse with the additional budget. It is a draft which does not change the total amount of expenditure and which is legally possible to be submitted to Parliament no later than two months before the end of the financial year. That's what we've done. The reason is, of course, that the budget for 2021 was drawn up in the autumn of last year, but given the times that have been in the meantime, it is clear that the financing needs have changed and therefore there are different ministries, but also proposals for changes tabled by, for example, the President's Office and the State Chancellery. Amendments to this draft are submitted by the Office of the President of the Republic, the Office of the State, the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Internal Affairs. These amendments also concern government reserve money. There are technical changes, changes within the area of government and also changes between the areas of government. The detailed list is set out in the explanatory memorandum, but some major changes will be noted here. For example, EUR 4.7 million will be transferred from the government reserve to the Ministry of Internal Affairs for the construction of the Defence Police Building because the pace of this construction has been such that it is possible to move forward faster. Similarly, the country's budgetary strategy is guided by 2022. The planned EUR 2.4 million in the budget of the State Chancellery of the government reserve, as a breakdown of the costs and investments between 2002 and 2008, is because it is again an investment that takes longer than planned. For the same reasons, the investment grant of EUR 3 million for the art building planned in the budget of the Ministry of Culture will be allocated to the government reserve. One of the major changes concerns the change between the administration of the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The proposal is to allocate €7.6 million to R &amp; D for green technology projects. I think it is also important to mention that many modulations are linked to the maintenance of IT systems in the broadest sense. As you can see, this is the cost of necessary licensing updates, server support services and upgrades needed to develop the e-state. Since 2021, i.e. the beginning of this year, the Financial Intelligence Unit is under the administration of the Ministry of Finance, so it is necessary to make these changes to the budget lines of both the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Finance in order to ensure the coverage of the cost of the Financial Intelligence Unit's services. But as I said, the detailed list is on the draft materials. I am happy to answer questions about this and hope that the draft will receive the support of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U317	Thank you very much. There are questions. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U318	Thank you, Mr President. My question concerns the allocation of EUR 4.7 million to the Ministry of the Interior. I am not arguing that this is a very important issue, but I think we have a problem right now with the rescuers. If we don't have any rescuers at one point, if the Homeland Department or the D.O.D. building is on fire, there's no one who can erase. And I'm asking a question right now. One person has sent me a message. His question is why wages at the Rescue Board are lower when teachers' salaries are higher again. "Electricity, fuel and gas are expensive. It's kind of creepy, I'll tell you. If you have time, you can ask. " I got time and ask why we prefer concrete to people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U319	Thank you for your question. That is, of course, an interesting question. But first of all, I will explain that this 4.7 million you referred to concerns the transfer of the budget from the reserve to the Ministry of the Interior and is an investment. Money for investment cannot be used to pay salaries. That's the first explanation. And the second: it is, of course, inaccurate to say that if we think about the raise next year, the rise in the wages of the rescuers will be sidelined. On the contrary, in fact, if we look at the percentage of wage increases, the saviors will have the highest and fastest. So I don't really think it's wise to create this contrast. The minimum wage for rescuers has been very low. Next year it will rise by 12%. This is the important and biggest wage growth we are talking about in the government sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U320	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U321	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. It is important that the budget that has been adopted is also implemented. But my question is about the penthouse money. There are several [amounts] that have not been paid up to this day, and one is allocated to the NGO Life Mars EUR 170000. Where is it? Or is it aimed at some kind of green turn or some kind of sexual minority or somebody else? Where is it, and is it going to be the way the budget intended?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U322	Thank you. These are interesting suggestions. Let's take these for consideration, but this bill doesn't concern this particular separation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U323	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U324	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, Let me ask you a little bit more generally. You have nicely pointed out in the introduction that this is a draft, which leaves the total amount of expenditure unchanged. This is not an extra budget. But I was just asking why the government didn't come up with an extra budget. That's right! We know that hundreds of millions have been received by the government from the sale of CO2 and also from the additional income tax on the implementation of the pension reform. But the government simply misses this opportunity and does not come to the aid of people, municipalities or entrepreneurs. Why don't you take this opportunity?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U325	Thank you, good questioner! Don't get so excited! It's not like you just described it. On the contrary! In order to mitigate the very sudden and rapid rise in current energy prices, we are going to use the extra money from the proceeds of the sale of CO2 quotas, and this will certainly provide relief, probably through local authorities, precisely for those who are currently facing the most difficult situation. If your question was why no additional budget has been made, then we have, together with you, made an additional budget this spring. I was, as Minister of Finance, with an additional budget that met very quickly as the crisis developed, and I am very grateful that Parliament was handling it very quickly on that occasion. The additional budget adopted at the time, in spring, was already in the autumn, and therefore, should the situation become even more difficult, we will have the opportunity to mitigate and use several difficult areas with the additional budget decisions made in spring. So thank you for that, and that is why you are really facing the draft amending the budget, not the additional budget again.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U326	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U327	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good minister! I'm just gonna give you a second to ask my colleague Peter Ernits. Indeed, we know that the current law is not being dullly enforced by the government. This organisation, which fights for lives and for the sustainability of our country and population, is being held by force, but the same amount of money, about EUR 200000, is being directed to the Christmas Mountain Health Sports Centre instead. It may be a conspiracy theory, but is there any connection between the two? That we take away the money for our lives and give it to the mountains of Christmas. Is that so, or am I overreacting here?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U328	Thank you for your question. In any case, the Christmas Mountain Sports Centre deals with the very necessary thing. It is, I think, very much appreciated that these are sports opportunities, which are far from being used by the people of the region, not only by the people of the region, but more generally. And I think that what has been done on Christmas Mountain should certainly be acknowledged. I hope that these investments will come to a nice conclusion and this centre will be fully developed. So, yes, that connection is arbitrary.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U329	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U330	Good manager! Good waitress! Our state budget, which we're about to hit on the pie, is so big, numb and amorphous. It's hard to look under that shell. And now, according to the so-called draft amendment, there will be sums that will end, for example, EUR 9943, which will be directed to the other, or EUR 25308 will be directed towards the cooperation agreement between the State Chancellery and the Rescue Board. At the same time, it turns out that the defense police are now receiving 4.67 million reserves for their new fancy castle. When will the state budget become as specific as the last number for different expenditures, for example, is 2 or 3, such a specific one, perhaps also with knuckles?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U331	Thank you, good questioner! I hope that the time of the cocktails will not come back, but we will still strive for greater accuracy in next year's budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U332	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U333	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Minister! You answered Heiki Hepner's question by referring to the money from the sale of the CO2 quota. But I had this stupid question: what happens if Estonia leaves this business with the grunt and let the other, smarter and richer countries deal with the sale and benefit of this CO2 and its loss. What happens then? Please don't tell me that we can't do this, and it's not possible. What will happen in the Estonian economy in particular if we get out of this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U334	Thank you. The system can and must be improved. But I hope that Estonia will not discuss a partial departure from the European Union. This would certainly have irreversible and negative consequences for our economy, our security and our country as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U335	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U336	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I will pick up where I left off with the first question in some respects. In fact, both our municipalities and our people are still very concerned about the current rise in prices and, in particular, about the increase in energy prices. That's why there's even a reason to be a little nervous, not just me, but the whole government, I think. But I'm gonna ask you this. You indicated that the government is planning to support municipalities in terms of increasing energy prices using CO2 money. Maybe you'll open it up a little bit. How is this reflected in the existing budget, or how does this relate to it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U337	Thank you. As regards the draft amending the budget law, which is now before you, the draft amendment to the budget, which does not concern this issue, but since you have asked, I will nevertheless answer. One of the solutions that we are working on is really linked to providing relief precisely by using the proceeds from the sale of the CO2 quota to people who are currently in serious trouble as a result of this energy shock, as the bills have grown very suddenly. This [relieving offer] is provided for in the rules on the use of this money, and that is probably what we want to use. The question is how to do this in such a way that this support and relief reaches the fastest and most precisely those people who need it the most. This knowledge is probably best in the local government, which knows its region and its people best. Therefore, one of the likely solutions is precisely to deliver this support and relief to the place through the municipalities. This is one of the solutions that we are working on right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U338	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U339	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. This may not be a real issue today, but I am concerned about agricultural science. I'm asking or maybe I'm proposing. It's gotten a little complicated right now. 40% of the research money will be MKM, 40% HTM, 20% will be for the rest. Some are divided by HTM, some go to the State Chancellery, where one person distributes money on a project basis, then it goes back to MEM, and then it goes back to TAN. If TAN decides that it can be financed, this project awaits the decision of the Government. The result is that out of 42.8 million, as far as I know, 1.3 million have reached somewhere. Since these projects are one year old, it is very difficult for me, frankly, to understand how, for example, plant breeding can do something with one year old projects. Can you think a little bit about making these things easier, going like this so that you can make science with that money?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U340	Thank you. You have to be accepted. It could be faster, and it could be easier. The fact that the role of the Research and Development Council is increasing in the decision-making of research funds is quite a recent change. I myself hope that this will help to reduce the various stages of the process and to make decisions carefully, transparently and quickly. But I agree with you that decision-making should take place as soon as possible so that the money can be actually used.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U341	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U342	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Of course, it was very tragic for me to hear the lives of thousands of children be less important than a sports thing on Christmas Mountain with a sandy square. But now I am trying to place myself in the position of Minister for Social Coherence and ask you to comment on a change in the performance areas of "People and a cohesive society," "Strong Civil Society" and "Kestlik Estonia." What are these changes in amounts? What kind of changes, what kind of activities?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U343	Thank you. The budget of the strong civil society, sustainable Estonia, etc. programme of the Ministry of the Interior is where the change takes place, and this concerns the change introduced in the introduction, according to which the Financial Intelligence Unit came to the Ministry of Finance for the administration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. This change is necessary because the FIU's activities are well covered. It's part of those changes. However, here is the money to be allocated to the budget of the Ministry of Justice's administration, for example, relating to the export of data from the national fingerprint and palm identification system to the costs of the automatic biometric identification system as well as the maintenance of the document management system separately. Then the reverse change, i.e. from the budget of the Ministry of Justice's area of government, is the money that goes into the budget of the internal security programme. This relates to the delay in the transfer of Jõhvi and Tartu detention houses. As the transfer will be delayed, the money will be channelled to the internal security program. The rest of the changes in the area of government of the Ministry of the Interior are greater. The major change relates to the construction of the defence police building and the cooperation agreement between the State Chancellery and the Rescue Board for the cost of the position that is related to this agreement. These are the changes that the Ministry of the Interior has to do with.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U344	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U345	Thank you for the floor. Minister, thank you very much. The first line of amendments to this additional budget is the line of the Office of the President of the Republic. My question: do you now have an overview at the Ministry of Finance of what this real situation is in the Office of the President of the Republic? How can we believe that you have a clear view of the other lines? I know that last week's speculation revolved over several days that the money from the President's Office was all spent until the end of the year, and you, too, when you were asked about it at the government press conference, didn't really know what to say about it. You said there must be a problem. An hour later, the Head of the Office of the President of the Republic gave a press conference, where he said that the remaining balance until the end of the year is perhaps not a quarter, as it should be until the end of the year, but a third, that is to say, greater than the minimum need. Do you have an overview of what's really going on with the money from the president's office today? According to this budget, an additional EUR 11000 will be reduced.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U346	Thank you. First of all, let me make it clear from the outset that this is not an additional budget, but an amendment to the budget. The difference is that the additional budget increases expenditure, but the change in the budget is a reshaping of existing expenditure. I must also allow myself the clarification of last week's press conference, because when I was asked, I really said, as an explanation, that the Office of the President has not been addressed by the Ministry of Finance, nor have I, with such concern, and that is why all the information was on the basis of the media at the time. To date, I have the same knowledge, to which you also referred, that speaking about the budget of the President's Office, there are no problems with spending until the end of this year. Just as it is customary for the President to change, it is not at the time of the exchange that the entire annual budget has run out, but that the corresponding balance, for several months to the end of the year, should remain in the budget, so it is this time too. So that's the best way to know right now. As far as the budget for next year is concerned, the President's exchange will take place after the budget has already been transferred to Parliament, so probably if there are any further problems or proposals there, then the Parliament that deals with the budget will already be addressed directly. But yes, the President's Office has not addressed the Ministry of Finance with concerns about the budget this year. So the budget is fine.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U347	Thank you very much. There are no further questions for the Minister. I now call Erki Savisaar, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U348	Thank you, Mr President. Good Riigikogu! The Committee on Finance prepared a draft of 431 for first reading, including on 27 September. The bill was presented by Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus together with advisor Regina Vällik. The Minister gave an adequate overview of the content of the draft. After a few detailed questions on the content of the draft, the Commission reached consensual decisions: to propose that the first reading of the draft be completed and that the deadline for amendments be 10 working days, i.e. 27 October at 5.15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U349	No questions asked. Thank you. It's possible to go to the calls. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Heiki Hepner!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U350	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, We are discussing a budgetary amendment that does not change the balance or volume of revenue and expenditure. But actually, we could discuss the extra budget and what we have on the table could be much more ambitious. It is a pity, in fact, that we have not taken advantage of this opportunity. The Minister rightly pointed out: in spring, when we had a health crisis, we were able to approve together quickly an additional budget in order to solve the very acute problems facing the country and to make our country and our people come out of this crisis with the least losses. Today we also have an energy crisis added to the health crisis. I dare to call it that, because the rise in energy prices is still very high. The price of electricity, the price of gas, and the price of gas are increasing many times, and this has put our home consumers, our businesses and also our municipalities in a very difficult position. However, I also stress the municipalities, because we often do not talk about it. It is as if we are forgetting them, but municipalities are also very big consumers of energy, both electricity and heat energy. They too must actually be helped in this crisis. Of course, businesses and domestic consumers are also very, very important, but as a whole, we must extend our hand to all three. It's a shame we haven't. We actually have those opportunities. This year, the country has received hundreds of millions of euros from pension reform and higher CO2 prices. We have not taken this opportunity to help our people, our entrepreneurs, our municipalities. I'm so sorry about that. I would still mark these possibilities and give this idea to act and an additional budget to bring Parliament quickly to the Minister. The sale of CO2 could cover the cost of renewable energy. This would bring down the price of electricity by nearly 10%, and it would help everyone. This would help domestic consumers, help businesses, but also help municipalities. A reduction in VAT on energy prices from 20% to 9% would also deserve serious consideration and swift action. This, too, would be an important and very important help for us to be able to cope. Indeed, helping people with income support, which, as the Minister said in reply to my question, is planned and the government thinks about it, of course, is helpful, but it is too little. We have to do a lot more. I would call on the government to think more ambitiously than a change in the budget and, in essence, to help resolve today's crises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-13_U351	Thank you. There are no more requests to speak. The lead committee has proposed to close the first reading of draft 431 and the first reading has been completed. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 27 October at 5.15 p.m. That concludes today's agenda and closes the session.
