ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the Tuesday session of the 13th working week of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. We can hand over drafts and enquiries if we want to. That's not what you want. In that case, we'll do a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U2	83 members of the Riigikogu registered as present.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U3	Now we can go to our agenda. Today's first item on the agenda is the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision to appoint a member of the Riigikogu Estonian National Broadcasting Council 375. I call Signe Kivi, representative of the Committee on Culture, as rapporteur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I present to you the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the appointment of a member of the National Broadcasting Council of Estonia, which the Cultural Committee of the Riigikogu decided to submit to the Riigikogu for processing at its meeting on 15 April. The reason for the appointment of a member of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council is the declaration by Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubitsa, former member of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council, submitted on 13 April as a member of the Supervisory Board, as of 14 April. According to § 15 (4) of the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act, the Riigikogu is obliged to appoint a new member of the Supervisory Board within three working weeks. On 13 April, the Group of the Riigikogu of Isamaa proposed the appointment of Priit Sibul, a member of the Riigikogu, as a new member of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council. In making a proposal to the Riigikogu, the Committee on Culture must be based on § 15 of the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act, according to which a member of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council may not be, first, a member of the Board of Public Broadcasting, a procurist or an auditor; second, a member of the management body of the media service provider; third, a self-employed person within the meaning of the media service provider; fourth, contractual relations with any media service provider; fifth, shareholder, shareholder or member of the media service provider; sixth, member of the Government of the Republic. According to § 5 of the Media Services Act, the media service provider is a legal or natural person who provides a television, on-demand audiovisual media or radio service, who has editorial responsibility for the choice of the content of the media service and who determines the order in which it is to be presented and the manner in which it is to be transmitted. Priit Sibul gave his written consent to the appointment to the Supervisory Board and confirmed that there are no legal inconsistencies in his appointment as member of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council. I introduce to you Protocol No 128 of the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu. The session was held on 15 April, and the second item on the agenda was the preparation of the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the appointment of a member of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council. According to Aadu Must, the reason for the appointment of a member of the Riigikogu's Estonian National Broadcasting Council is the declaration made by Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, the former member of the Broadcasting Council in the aforementioned explanatory memorandum, in order to resign at his own request, and also the fact that on 13 April the Riigikogu Isamaa Group has proposed that Priit Sibul, a member of the National Broadcasting Council, be appointed as a new member of the Riigikogu. Agenda item 2.1: Aadu Must, Helle-Moonika Helme, Leo Kunnas, Signe Kivi, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, Eduard Odines, Heidy Purga, Margit Sutrop, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi, Marko Šorin and Üllar Saaremäe were all members of the Commission. Agenda item 2.2: If the draft is adopted by the Executive Board of the Riigikogu and appointed as the commission of the Committee on Culture, propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary assembly and that the final vote be held on 4 May. All members of the above Commission voted in favour. Agenda item 2.3: appoint Signe Kivi as representative of the commission. All the members of the above Commission were also in favour of this. As stated in the explanatory memorandum, the decision of the Riigikogu comes into force at the time of signature, and a majority of the votes in favour of the plenary assembly are necessary for the adoption of this decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U5	Thank you. There are also questions for the rapporteur. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U6	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good waitress! Viktoria Ladynskaya is one of the few people with media experience among us, and my question is whether she made this statement voluntarily or whether there were some coercive measures behind it. In short, I would like to ask whether the honourable committee also gave the floor to Mrs Ladynskaja-Kubits, so that she could say whether this statement had been made voluntarily or was being forced back there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U7	Thank you very much. I must first say that you could certainly ask this sufficiently personal question from Mr Ladynskaya-Kubitsa himself. The Commission was sensitive and appreciated that the statement came from Viktoria Ladynskaya-Kubitsa, who confirmed that it was a declaration of her free will.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U8	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U9	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I have a question similar to that of the previous question. Does the Commission know whether Priit Sibul made the application voluntarily or was pressured and whether the Commission, as in the case of Viktoria Ladynskaya-Kubitsa, was familiar with the voluntary request made by Priit Sibula and was convinced that it was voluntary?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U10	Thank you very much. I must say that there were no such questions raised in the Commission's protocol, nor in the procedure that I remember well. It seems to me that, as your chairman of the Fatherland, you certainly know what the reason for this resignation is, and you may ask if you have not done so so far, from Priit Sibula.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U11	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U12	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! A very interesting phrase came out of your mouth right now, asking your people why you're resigning here. Since you said that phrase, you are also a little familiar with why this resignation is taking place. Please describe the informative situation you have in relation to the reasons for your resignation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U13	Thank you very much. I am not aware of these reasons for resigning, nor have I asked Viktoria Ladynskaya-Kubitsa myself. But when it comes to the expression of the person's free will, which is clearly visible, it seems to me that the members of the Riigikogu, also the member of the committee, may have this interest. But in this committee meeting, we really did not torture Victoria with these questions. It is possible that some members may have more information about this. I repeat, I don't have it. I believe that, when it comes to the personalities and their statement, that information should be limited. But I think that Mrs Viktoria also agrees today, after this item has been discussed, to answer this question to the extent that she herself wishes to answer that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U14	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The procedure of this draft is governed by § 117 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, and there is only one oral question in the framework of it, so I cannot give Peeter Ernits a further word on the question. I don't see any more questions. Thank you to the Commission's waitress. There was no amendment to this draft and only one vote will be taken, so today we will also have a final vote. The commission's proposal is for a final vote of 375 on the draft. But before that, we'll negotiate. It is possible for the representatives of the political groups to speak in the negotiations. I don't see the wish for negotiations. Let's go back to the final vote. It's a saalikutsung. Honourable Riigikogu! I am voting on the Riigikogu's decision to appoint a member of the National Broadcasting Council of Estonia, submitted by the Committee on Culture 375. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U15	There are 90 members of the Riigikogu in favour of this draft, no respondents and no abstentions. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U16	Let's move on to the agenda. The second item is the second reading of Bill 310 of the Law amending the Law on the Organisation of the Fisheries Market and the Penal Registers Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Mr Kaido Höökelson, member of the Committee on Rural Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U17	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The meeting on the second reading of the draft law amending the Fisheries Market Organisation Act and the Penal Register Act initiated by the Government of the Republic was held in the Committee on Rural Affairs on 19 April 2021. Invited was Ain Finland, Head of the Fish Management Department of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, Geir Veski, Head of the Legal Department, and Karina Torop, Chief Specialist. No amendments were received by the deadline of 9 April at 5.15 p.m. The members of the Commission also had no questions for invited guests. It was therefore decided to proceed with a procedural proposal to put 310 drafts on the agenda for plenary today, 4 May 2021; to propose to stop the second reading of drafts 310s; when the second reading of drafts 310s is closed, to propose to place the drafts on the agenda for plenary and to hold a final vote on 11 May 2021. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U18	Thank you. There are questions for the waitress. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U19	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good waitress! I'm glad to hear that there were no suggestions for improvement either this way or that way. I ask whether this bill is so delightful that it will not soon have to be re-examined again. What's your assessment?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U20	Yes, thank you! Since no amendments were received from any committee, members of the Riigikogu or fisheries-related companies, this draft is therefore so good and everyone was satisfied with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U21	Thank you. No further questions. Thanks to the waitress! As you have just heard, there were no amendments to the draft. We can now go to the negotiations. I don't see the wish for negotiations. In that case, the proposal of the commission is to conclude the second reading of draft 310. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U22	Today's third item is the first reading of the Bill 365 of Amendment to the Law on Restrictive Acquisition of Property, initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Minister for Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U23	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The law on the limitation of the acquisition of immovable property, or KAKS, has already been implemented since February 2003. The law has also been adapted from time to time, the last major amendment was made in February 2012 when the law was re-established as a whole. Today we are presenting two amendments to the first reading to extend the range of persons who are not subject to restrictions on the acquisition of immovable property. I recall, in a few sentences, the restrictions on the acquisition of land for the benefit of legal persons under this law. Where the immovable property contains 10 hectares or more of agricultural land, the legal person may, in accordance with the law in force, acquire it if, during the three years immediately preceding the year in which the acquisition of the immovable property was carried out, he has been engaged in the production of agricultural products. And if the immovable property contains 10 hectares or more of forest land, the legal person may acquire it if, during the three years immediately prior to the year in which the acquisition of the immovable property was carried out, he has been engaged in the production of agricultural products or the management of forests. If these conditions are not met, i.e. the legal person has not been engaged in either the production of agricultural products or the management of the forest during the three years preceding the transaction, it can acquire immovable property containing 10 hectares or more of agricultural or forestry land only with the permission of the local council of the municipality in which the immovable property is situated. The Council has 45 days to process the documents and decide on the authorisation. At the same time, KAKS is not applicable if the acquisition of the immovable property is made by the state of Estonia, the local government unit of Estonia or any other legal person established under public law in Estonia, such as the Estonian University of Life Sciences. However, the State may also carry out public tasks in a private manner. Therefore, it is necessary to supplement Section 2 (1) (2) of the KAOKS by adding to the list of persons related to the State who are not subject to restrictions on the acquisition of land for profit a foundation established by the State to support the rural economy. At the moment, we are talking about the Rural Promotion Foundation. In order to alleviate the crisis related to the spread of the Corona virus causing COVID-19 disease, a measure on the financial leasing of agricultural land shall be implemented through the MES. This measure provides an opportunity for an undertaking to remedy the shortage of working capital or to improve the possibility of raising funds for investments through a sale and lease-back transaction. In addition to the financial leasing measure, MES is responsible for providing loans and loan guarantees to exit the COVID-19 crisis as soon as possible and to mitigate the negative effects of the crisis, but the agricultural land is acquired by MES only in the implementation of the measure on the financial leasing of agricultural land. At present, before making the transaction, MES has to obtain permission from the local government council for the purchase of immovable property containing 10 hectares or more of agricultural land. This entails excessive bureaucracy and administrative burdens, which may, among other things, create obstacles for farmers and rural operators in difficulty due to the crisis to quickly benefit from aid. We believe that it is more reasonable not to apply the permit procedure and the bureaucracy involved to the local authority in the country's foundation for the development of rural entrepreneurship, because even without the permit procedure, the promotion of targeted and sustainable management of agricultural and forestry land is ensured. This draft law also contains another amendment concerning the acquisition of immovable property in areas with national defence restrictions provided for in § 10 of that law. Currently, natural persons who are not nationals of the Contracting State of the European Economic Area or legal persons not established in the Contracting State of the European Economic Area are prohibited from acquiring immovable property on islands located at sea, with the exception of four major islands, in the areas of Saaremaa, Hiiumaa, Muhu and Vormsi, and in the areas adjacent to the eastern border. Since the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland left the European Union on 1 February 2020 and on 31 December last year the United Kingdom also ceased to be bound by European Union law, including the rules of the internal market and customs union, the United Kingdom is a country whose nationals and legal entities are prohibited from acquiring immovable property in areas with national defence restrictions. The proposal to exempt the United Kingdom from national defence restrictions was made by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, alongside the countries of the European Economic Area. As a result of the amendment, UK citizens and legal persons will continue to be granted the right to acquire immovable property also in areas with national defence restrictions referred to in Section 10 of the KAKS. I would ask the honourable Parliament to leave this bill in the process and to approve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U24	Thank you. There are also questions for the Minister. Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U25	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. My question concerns the financial lease of agricultural land, which we have now started to implement over the last year to the tune of EUR 50 million and for which there is annual practice. Please tell me how many of these applications have been. And another thing: can you describe what the contents of these applications have been? Has there been a problem with long-term sustainability in some agricultural area, or are these temporary reasons, such as poor market economy? What have been the main grounds or motives for the applications that have gone down the road to capital leases on agricultural land?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U26	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. 32 applications have been submitted for part of this measure, with a total amount of EUR 11,5 million. However, contracts have been concluded with 13 applicants, a total of EUR 2,8 million. One of the reasons why [the conclusion of contracts] has gone so slowly is that the procedural process takes quite a long time. This means that, even if there is still a need to go through the council, this could in principle mean that almost this 45-day period of procedure will be fulfilled. In some cases, it may be possible to switch from this procedure, but this has been one of the reasons. If you ask why operators have applied for this measure, I will say that there are different reasons. Some of the reasons are very clearly linked to the short-term need for money, but this actually means that companies have different opportunities and different guarantees to exit the crisis. One of them is land, and therefore, if we look purely administratively from the perspective of the Rural Promotion Foundation, this measure is certainly one of the most guaranteed measures in their view to help farmers. Our problem is, in fact, that for banks, as a rule, the guarantees of many large investment companies have come to an end or an end and, as a result, they may not continue to have additional resources either in terms of working capital or in terms of exiting the crisis or in terms of making new investments. These have been such different views. But, of course, the history of this measure itself is linked to the fact that, if a similar product has been sought on the market, its conditions have still been very strict in terms of interest. One of the objectives for implementing this measure is that agricultural land still remains in agricultural use.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U27	I don't see any more questions for the waitress. We can move on to the next waitress, which is Martin Repinski, member of the Committee on Rural Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U28	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As the Minister has already said, this concerns two amendments to the draft law. Two things will be changed in the big picture. One change relates to a national defence restriction and the amendment [based on] not currently allowed to acquire land or agricultural land of a size of 10 hectares or more, a foundation, nor a national foundation. A problem has arisen in this regard. The Rural Promotion Foundation cannot acquire land larger than 10 hectares without the permission of the Council. With regard to support or financial measures in the last year, the MES has encountered a problem of taking too much time. In this context, the [Law] is amended so that the Foundation receives this possibility. The second amendment concerns the withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the automatic application of restrictions to those who are not citizens of the European Union and to legal persons registered outside the European Union and not members of the European Economic Area. In this context, the law will be supplemented by adding the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to the list of countries whose legal persons and citizens will not be subject to this restriction. The Committee on Rural Affairs has discussed this draft at a meeting held on 20 April. The following members took part in the meeting: Merry Aart, Kaido Hoöölson, Ivari Padar, Martin Repinski, Helir-Valdor Seeder, Andrus Seed and Aivar Viidik. First of all, the Minister for Rural Affairs, Urmas Kruus, gave an overview of the proposed changes, as well as how this support or financing measure has moved within the Rural Promotion Foundation. Tarmo Tamm then asked whether the agricultural land capital measure was worth EUR 50 million or EUR 20 million. Urmas Kruuse replied that the government was planning to revise the total amount of the measure, but it has not yet been done. Ivari Padar then asked how much interest there was in a capital measure for agricultural land. Urmas Kruuse replied that applications had been submitted for around EUR 12 million over the year and that decisions had been made for EUR 4.3 million. Marko Gorban stated that the measure was launched in May last year, and the problem is that the foundation must apply for permission from the local government council in the course of each land buy-out process. This, however, takes quite a while and that is why the number of applications submitted is much higher than the number of applications processed. Tarmo Tamm asked who was entitled to apply. Marko Gorban replied that the applicants' circle was the same as for the other COVID-19 measures of the MES. Tarmo Tamm then asked about the price, how this price would be in the case of rent, if the seller of the agricultural land would use this piece of land and pay the rent price to the MES. Marko Gorban and Urmas Kruuse explained that it has been agreed with the Ministry of the Environment that MES will take the price statistics of the Land Administration and that it will be priced. Merry Aart expressed the view that there was an interest in the measure and that the measure was important and asked how legal persons could prove that they were engaged in agriculture, so that they would not be subject to this restriction, and whether it was sufficient for them to show, for example, a return on sales of EUR 100. The answer came in principle from Helir-Valdor Seeder, who said that according to the law currently in force, it is really enough to show a sales revenue of EUR 100. There is no limit to that. Helir-Valdor Seeder asked whether this draft law would only extend to the MES, and Urmas Kruuse replied again that it was initially intended to take into account all foundations, so that it would also apply to other foundations, but during the coordination round it was proposed to narrow it down and, in principle, yes, it would now only apply to the MES. Helve Hunt added that the proposed restriction came from the Ministry of Finance. There were many other questions. The most important ones I think I've brought out. Tarmo Tamm paid attention to local governments and took an interest in their position. Urmas Kruuse replied that the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities made two proposals during the process, one of which was taken into account. Marin Daniel, adviser to the Committee on Rural Affairs, pointed out that the draft explanatory memorandum contains a table for the coordination of the draft and that there are also two amendments tabled by the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities. One amendment that was rejected was that the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities wanted to give [local authorities the opportunity] to ask for the opinion of the local government when the land was acquired if no authorisation was required. However, the Ministry of Rural Affairs has considered that, if there are no restrictions and there is no possibility to influence [the acquisition of the plot], there is no direct need to seek an opinion in the event of any acquisition of agricultural land. It was agreed that the deadline for amendments was ten working days in accordance with the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act. Martin Repinski, member of the Committee on Rural Affairs, was appointed rapporteur. It was proposed to place a draft of 365 on the plenary agenda on 4 May, i.e. today, and to propose to close the first reading of the draft of 365. This proposal was supported by consensus. I would ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U29	Thank you. There are also questions for the rapporteur. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U30	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good Vice-President of the Riigikogu Martin! Good Commission waitress Martin! That's my question. The law restricting the acquisition of immovable property has been one of the most on the table of the Committee on Rural Affairs in the last five to six years. The reason is very simple: a series of nice people in Ida-Virumaa do not get the land under their dates for certain bureaucratic reasons, and that is the case to this day. I think waitress Martin knows that very well. Did you have any mention in the committee that, within the framework of this law, this small concern could be resolved here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, so that these people of Ida-Virumaa, Narva and other municipalities could finally have their own dacha basis for the land?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U31	Thank you, my dear colleague, for your concern for the people of Ida-Virumaa. There is such a problem in Estonia, but we did not discuss this at committee meetings this time. The reason is simple: this topic is much wider and it is in some sense even a political dispute. I, too, am in favour of this having to be resolved. In my opinion, the solution is very simple. However, since there is no political consensus on this issue at the moment, we have not touched on it either, because these changes are, if the amendments to this bill are adopted, well technical and we did not start discussing political matters at this committee meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U32	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U33	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! You mentioned that the draft coordination round had a restrictive proposal from the Ministry of Finance, which was taken into account. Can you explain what the reason for this siege was for the Ministry of Finance? Can you explain the reasons for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U34	Thank you. I'll see if it's on the table or not. No, unfortunately, it's not written in this table. However, this was because there was initially a plan to implement this amendment for all foundations. Let's just say that at the moment, no foundation, even a national foundation, can acquire agricultural land with an area of more than ten hectares without the permission of the local government council. In the course of these disputes, it became clear that it is reasonable to make this change that only the Rural Promotion Foundation would be concerned at the moment, as it actually created this need. The Commission's view is that since there was no wider need and there was no interest and no need to extend it to other foundations, it was only for the purpose of a specific foundation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U35	No more questions for the waitress. We can go to the negotiations. I don't see the wish for negotiations. In this case, the lead committee has proposed to close the first reading of draft 365. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline of 18 May at 5.15 p.m. for the submission of amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U36	We can go to the last item on the agenda today. The fourth item is the draft law amending the Act on the Election of the President of the Republic, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group and Riigikogu member Raimond Kaljulaid. The rapporteur is Lauri Läänemets, member of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U37	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will introduce you to the Act amending the Presidential Election Act, which is actually very simple in nature. This relates to the section that tells how many representatives of [local government council] can be in the electoral body of the President of the Republic according to the number of inhabitants of the electoral age of the local government. The purpose of this bill is to correct the hole that we have now formed. Namely, 79 municipalities remained in Estonia after the administrative reform concerning local governments in 2017. During this administrative reform, it also changed how many voters from different regions of Estonia are elected and sent to the electoral body. As far as I know at the time, it was said that the President of the Republic's Election Act, which specifically concerns the electoral body and the number of its members, would be returned. The various coalitions have also set up working groups and this has been discussed in these working groups. Unfortunately, these coalitions have broken up before the proposals in concrete form have reached this great hall. The bill states that the number of representatives of the local government council in the electoral body is determined as follows: one representative per Estonian citizen with a right to vote of up to 2000, two representatives per Estonian citizen with a right to vote of 1 000 and three representatives per Estonian citizen with a right to vote of up to 2 000. 5 representatives per Estonian citizen with a right to vote, 10 representatives per Estonian citizen with a right to vote, 50001 per Estonian citizen with a right to vote and 25 representatives per Estonian citizen with a right to vote. When we look at the size of the electoral body earlier, in 1996, when these principles were recorded in the law, the electoral body had 374 members: elected representatives of local governments and 101 members of the Riigikogu. The ratio between the members of the Riigikogu and the representatives of the councils was 2.7 : 1. In 2016, there were 335 members in the electoral body, and the ratio of members of the Riigikogu and representatives of the councils was 2.3: 1. Now, after the administrative reform, only 208 members remain in the electoral body, 101 of them being members of the Riigikogu. If we dared to say this, the error that has arisen will not be corrected, then only 1.06 will be the ratio of MEPs and representatives of councils in the electoral body: 1. So it's actually a very hard decrease. As a result of this draft, it would not be 107 representatives of the electoral body, but 232 representatives of the councils. And the size of the electoral body would be 335, or the ratio would be 2.3, is basically the same as in the last presidential election. Indeed, the Constitution provides for the President to be elected here in the Riigikogu. This is Parliament's task according to the Constitution. However, the Constitution also provides for what to do in such a situation if Parliament is not able to cope with this task. For this reason, the electoral body of the President has actually been set up, that if there is a stalemate here and there is not much consensus, then the election of the President will move to the electoral body. And the electoral body should be the place where the president is elected. It is true that the number of representatives of local governments, at least in the past, has been so high that it does not copy Parliament's lines of power. Otherwise, in the case of just a small number, there is a high probability that the opinions and lines of power that are actually causing this stalemate in this Parliament will be transferred to the electoral body and the President will not be elected there too and will come back to Parliament again. We all know and remember that this situation in the Republic of Estonia has existed once a few years ago. This is not a very good signal to society. It does not have a good effect on Parliament, on the electoral body or, in fact, on the confidence and expectations of the people. An important change to this bill, not because of this bill itself, but because of the administrative reform, is that because we have 79 municipalities, the number of voters will be many more than the number of voters coming from one municipality. In the past, there were municipalities from which, for example, only one voter was posted together, but in the case of this bill, as this figure should be as high as before, but fewer municipalities will be, so that two or three voters per municipality will be the Estonian average. Of course, in some places there are many more, and in some isolated places it really happens that there are fewer. This means that since the current Act on the Election of the President of the Republic requires all voters to be elected at one vote at a local government council at a time, opposition representatives will probably also get a seat in the electoral body. And I think that, according to the idea that the electorate should not exactly copy Parliament's situation, it is a pretty good thing. This makes the composition of the electoral body, as well as the opinion there, quite different. What is even more important about democracy and broad-basedism is that, in fact, those representatives who do not represent the opinion of parliamentary parties will also be able to get together as such. If we look at today's opinion surveys and Estonia's current situation, parties outside the parliament will have the support of the people and this is more than 10%. These parties actually get the opportunity to cast their vote and to give their opinion through this electoral body in the presidential elections, according to this draft. In addition, local governments usually have a large number of electoral alliances, whose opinion and vision may not be exactly the same as the parliamentary parties. And the representatives of these electoral alliances will also have the opportunity to come to this electoral body to elect the President. In other words, the aim of this draft is to prevent the situation that we might have, that the electoral body will halve when we talk about representatives of local governments, and to ensure that the electoral body of the President is the widest possible decision-making place where consensus is really sought when choosing the President. After all, the number of votes needed in the Riigikogu for the election of the President also means that consensus must be found between the various views of the world in Parliament and between the various political parties and between the representatives of the various voters. If Parliament cannot do this, then it must be the electorate's assembly. However, in order to be able to do so, the electoral body should, as little as possible, copy Parliament's lines of power and, as much as possible, bring together the opinion of the voters. And I stress: I think it is important that the opinion of the people at that moment be held. After all, we may also have a situation in which the presidential elections take place three years after the parliamentary elections, for example, and in three years, the opinion of the Estonian people has often changed a lot or, if not often, sometimes. Thank you. I'd be happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U38	And indeed, there are questions. Kalvi Tough, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U39	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good Vice President of the Riigikogu! Good waitress! Here's the question. I remember very precisely these administrative reform debates that took place in 2017 in this Chamber and I remember... opinions... representation, if the municipality gets less, would not get worse. [[The connection's breaking up.]] And here's my question. Perhaps you will comment a little on the debate that the Commission had in relation to the fact that the Commission does not support this draft at first reading and that it will be rejected. Has the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs changed as regards the fact that the vote of local governments in the presidential elections is now decreasing, although the political will since 2017 was that it would not decrease but rather increase?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U40	Thank you. If I remember correctly now that I hope that I will not harm anyone, that someone can correct me immediately if I am wrong, someone who, for example, has the Commission's protocol ahead of us, first of all, as I recall, we had a debate in the committee, mainly between the President of the Commission, the Member of the Commission, Kalle Grünthal, and me. I do not remember the other Members of the Commission thinking much. So it's hard to say what they thought. But let us say that the result of the vote says everything: to propose to reject the draft at first reading. I would interpret it in such a way that there is no need to give more representatives of local councils or representatives of regions a wide-ranging decision. I have not calculated and drawn any diagrams myself, I think it is quite difficult to do them, but perhaps someone from the coalition has already done some calculations and found that such a electoral body is more useful to them than if [their candidate] does not go through Parliament, then the electoral body will get their votes together. I certainly hope that's not the case. I'm just telling you what it looks like. But when you think about this debate and what the representative of the Government of the Republic said in the Commission, it is not the procedure for electing the President that will change this in substance. What this bill is actually doing is trying to keep the number of representatives from the local regions in the electoral body as large as it has been so far. He won't do anything else. There will be no further substantive change to this. Yes, of course, this principle applies to the elections of the European Parliament, the elections of the Riigikogu and the elections of local governments rather than to the election of many people, so that no changes in law are made for a year before the elections, so that it is clear to everyone how to apply and how the election procedure is conducted, and that the elections are as fair, democratic and transparent as possible. But I dare say that there is no contradiction here and there is no contradiction because we do not make any changes in substance. If we are also thinking about the time, I believe that there is enough time for this draft to be approved before Midsummer Day. From the moment the draft is approved, it will be quite a while before the presidential nominations begin. And when we talk about the electoral body, that is option 2, as the Republic Election Commission has said, the presidential elections in the electoral body can reach the end of September at all, so there is a lot of time. Moreover, I do not believe that for any local government council, it would be a problem if they had to make a decision on the spot whether to elect one, two or three people to represent. I don't think anyone would argue with that. If someone really thinks that way, it would be interesting to see and listen to him explain that he does not want his people to be represented in such a broad sense. And as far as the presidential candidates are concerned, as I said, there should be no problem with this either, because it will only be in the second half of this year when the presidential candidates will be set up in accordance with the law. It was not directly said in the Commission, unfortunately, whether it was consciously intended to keep the electoral circle smaller for some political reason, but at least I tend to conclude that, because there were no major substantive reasons against this proposal in committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U41	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U42	Thank you. Psychologists have said that a person remembers events for about three months. I have to admit that they are saying the right thing to do because, when I supported your draft in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, [I remembered that] in October last year, there was such a story that I applied for the President to be directly elected. Today, you are saying that people's confidence is not well affected by [decreasing the size of the electoral body], that there should be more voters, that you are talking about democracy and that you are also thinking about political parties outside of parliament. Very nice talk, I must say. But in this regard, I recalled that when I tabled the draft direct election of the President, so that the people could choose the President themselves, because this would be the most democratic, I remember the Social Democrats did not support this draft. So I think your current bill is such a fake bill. What's your comment?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U43	Thank you, dear Kalle Grünthal. First of all, thank you very much for supporting this draft in the Commission. I hope you will also support this in this Chamber today. But I have to fix you. If I remember correctly, you did not submit a draft directly electing the President, but you submitted a draft, the content of which was to hold a referendum on the direct election of the President. At the time, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, apart from the representatives of the EKRE, everyone else, including all the Commission's staff, found with great conviction that this was simply contrary to the Constitution. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we proposed that a matter contrary to the Constitution cannot be put to a referendum, firstly, and secondly, if a change is to be desired, the draft should come. We have come up with a draft that specifically concerns the presidential elections. We have not come up with a bill that would change, for example, that the President could be elected by the people. With such a draft now, at least before these presidential elections, there is no point in coming up, because these changes are much longer-term, much more complicated and cannot be done in such a short time. We have brought before Parliament a draft that would improve, I dare say, an accident at work. I do not know whether I am hurting anyone by saying this, but I think it is an accident at work, because Parliament, when it comes to administrative reform, did not mean, in my opinion, that we were also going to reduce the electoral assembly. We have brought here a bill that directly changes the presidential election. But it makes just enough to avoid confusing the democratic process in any way, and so much so that it is in line with all the principles concerning the time remaining until the presidential elections. Of course I have to say that if you look at this bill, I don't remember the date by heart, it doesn't say it here, [you'll see that] we submitted it in February. It even says down here that Henn Põlluaas was the chairman of the Riigikogu, since then it has been a bill. There are also reasons why we are discussing this now in May. In fact, with the majority of the coalition in the Commission, it would have been possible, if it were willing, to discuss it in substance immediately, but [it was not done]. This is, unfortunately, a clear sign which shows that the coalition does not really have an interest in listening to the will of the greater people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U44	Andrei Korobenik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U45	Thank you very much. Can you open up these numbers for why these proportions? We know that some parties very much want the President's direct election, and if these [presented in the draft] numbers were more dependent on the population, that would be a step in the direction of direct elections. But these [proportions] are neither in the current regulation nor in this draft. Why is it the table that is being proposed here? Is there any particular logic behind this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U46	Thank you, very good and important question! We in the Commission, as I recall, did not even discuss the matter in this way; they did not ask about it. But the answer is simple. With this draft, as I said, we really do not want to make any major fundamental change. We are trying to prevent the decrease of the representatives of the electoral body in the presidential elections, and we have tried to propose a system that would 'proportionally copy' today's situation, so that the number of voters would be the same as the number of members of the electoral body last time, as there are fewer municipalities, then a few voters will have to come to each municipality. With this bill, we have not changed what is currently stated in the Act on the Election of the President of the Republic. Indeed, I understand that this question concerns, for example, the city of Tallinn, where the proportions between Tallinn and other municipalities are perhaps not in place, and, by its logic, it is not in Tallinn's favour. But we've tried to keep the logic of proportion the same, that's all we have back there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U47	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U48	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good waitress! I was in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in 2016 and saw this administrative reform law being prepared. On 7 June 2016, the Riigikogu adopted it. I checked a moment ago how the honourable Social Democrats voted in favour of what led to a drastic decrease in the number of municipalities, and I made sure that everyone voted in favour of it. The missing Eiki Nestor, Mihkel Raud, Tanel Talve and those who have not disappeared from the Riigikogu, ladies and gentlemen, were all in favour of it. In fact, you yourself reduced the number of voters at the time. Why are you walking the other way now? Is this just such a populist step that once in a while, once in a while?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U49	Thank you. The administrative reform was still designed as an administrative reform, which is not directly relevant to the presidential elections. After all, the reduction in the composition of the electoral body was not discussed at the time, but the administrative reform was discussed, which Parliament finally decided to carry out. It should also have included the topic of the electoral body, its number of members being restored after the administrative reform. As far as I know, this has been done several times during previous coalitions. I know that at the time when the President of the Riigikogu was still Eiki Nestor, he proposed this to all parliamentary parties. Unfortunately, the options that were not so big and finally developed were not of interest as to how the electoral body should emerge, these different options, unfortunately did not find support, and this amendment to the law was cancelled. As I recall, this issue has also been discussed in the later coalitions, but perhaps the coalitions [cooperation] have simply ended too soon or there has been some other reason, probably [cooperation] has ended, that discussions have not reached the point of bringing this bill into this hall. There have been attempts and attempts, and this is yet another desire to restore justice.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U50	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U51	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Why do Social Democrats deal with fine-tuning? Whether two reform parties are now coming from a council instead of one reform party or four central parties instead of two central parties does not change anything if the proportions are the same. I would still ask why the Social Democrats do not want to give decision-making to the people. On several occasions, good Lauri, you went through the words "to learn more about the mind of the people" and "to hear more about the voice of the people." You could actually hear the voice of the people if we did the President's direct election. In this Parliament, for example, the Centre Party has strongly supported this idea. How do you feel that the Social Democrats would not be in the context of their presidential election, but in the longer view of the President's direct election supporters to give the people a real voice? I hope you answer the question yes or no, not just round talk.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U52	Thank you. First of all, I must remind you that, recently, we had a government in power in the country, which had just been composed of the Centre Party and the EKRE. I did not see that this draft had been submitted to us and that we had talked about these issues in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. So in another eye [the surface] you can see, but in your own eye you can't see [the pay]. Now, going forward with this question, I will say once again that, as far as the election of the President of the Republic is concerned, such a more fundamental change in the electoral order is not being requested by our own draft. This is what we are trying to do, and I apologise if I hurt anyone again, to prevent an accident at work in the Riigikogu or Parliament. As a result of the administrative reform, the number of voters has decreased, but it should actually be restored, because the Riigikogu has never, as far as I know, held a debate on how large the electoral body should be, how it should emerge after the administrative reform. This debate has not taken place. Now, for the first time, this debate place has emerged in this room. We're talking about the presidential election coming soon. As far as the election of the President by the people is concerned, this change takes years and years. During this period, perhaps we will have two presidents, perhaps even three presidents. Yeah, this bill might come up. If the Conservative People's Party of Estonia wants to, you can come out with it. But no matter who comes up with this bill, he wouldn't change the situation that is today. The presidential elections will take place this year, this autumn. The presidential elections will also take place after these elections, and then this problem should be resolved, so that the number of representatives sent by local councils in the electoral body is too low.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U53	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U54	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Good Lauri! It's very exciting to watch... [[The connection's breaking up.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U55	Paul! Paul, please tell me more about the microphone.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U56	[[Remote connection]] ... and I understand that the Socialists have now planned to devaluation of the value of the person in the highest position of representative power of state. And this is due to the fact that, since the electoral body is formed in municipal elections and in accordance with § 5, voters are essentially appointed by the members of the electoral body, so that voters are stateless persons, foreigners, their children and, in certain cases, grandchildren, with children naturally of age. And here's the question, why do the Social Democrats want to devalue the highest representation power?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U57	Thank you, dear Paul Pulpland. I need to make a comment right now. I remembered that Paul Puustusmaa actually took the floor in the Commission's debate, and I apologise, I think I may have hurt him before. But no, we are not going to change anything here, we are not going to change the principle. Today, the principle applies that local government councils select representatives of these councils or their local authorities to the electoral body. We're not going to change that section that concerns all of this. The only thing we're going to change is how many representatives will be elected. So maybe this question should have gone somewhere over the years, to those who made those laws back then.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U58	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U59	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! I think it's a train that's already gone. The Code of Good Practice in Elections adopted by the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe clearly states that important issues of the electoral rule must not be changed if there is less than one year before the elections. And just as important a part of the rulebook is who can choose, not just how the elections are conducted. What is the justification for this if, in the Commission's view, it is not an important issue and is not part of the rulebook? After all, if we move the number of voters up and down or change its composition, it is also part of the set of rules. This debate is extremely important and should have taken place here in the Riigikogu earlier, but this train has unfortunately already left. We can talk about maybe the next presidential election. Did the Commission discuss this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U60	Thank you. We talked about this in the Commission. And I will stick to my opinion, as I said at the beginning of the presentation of the bill. Indeed, the Venice Convention says that the principles will not be changed for a year before the elections. But this applies rather to elections such as municipal elections or Riigikogu elections, as I recall. So it is rather meant that when ordinary people go to the vote, the rules are not changed because it is not democratic. I would say in this way that we do not want to change any of the principles of how presidential elections take place in the electoral body, but with this bill we want to maintain the previous situation so that the composition of the electoral body is not made up of members of the Riigikogu and representatives of local governments in half, but that two thirds of the representatives are from local governments and one third from the Riigikogu. This was the principle still in force until the administrative reform changed this situation. This change has not come from any parliamentary debate or the wish of the Riigikogu to reduce the composition of the electoral body; it has not been at any moment in this Chamber, at least to my knowledge, that anyone has wished to do so. We're just trying to keep the situation that was then. I don't know what that interest is. I think that if we do not support this draft today, it is rather a desire to reduce [the number of members of the electoral body] and to change the situation that has been in place in Estonia for years in the case of the electoral body in the presidential elections. I'd rather look at it this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U61	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U62	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Lauri! I was moved to ask for one sentence or thought in your introductory presentation, according to which in the previous presidential elections in 2016, it was embarrassing that the Riigikogu was unable to elect the President and the electoral body was unable to choose, and everyone was disappointed in the Riigikogu and everyone was anxious and it was kind of bad about it. I don't share that view, I don't think anything went very wrong. If we have such a procedure for electing the President, let's choose until the President is elected. We don't have to be ashamed and stressful. But as a result, my question to you is this: is it more important for you and other social democrats that we pick the President quickly, or is it that we choose the best president for Estonia? I liked the end of the previous election the least about this whole thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U63	Thank you very much. I didn't use the word "awkward," and I didn't mean it. Of course, this procedure, which currently exists in the Constitution and other laws, provides for certain procedures and it is perfectly normal to follow these procedures. But I think we should not only think in this Chamber as politicians think, but we should also feel and understand how people see these things. Dear Randpere, I'm sure you understand these processes better than most other people, you've read more laws and everything, so you don't see these problems. But there was a problem for other people. They saw it so that Parliament, and then the electoral body, could not do its job. In my opinion, this is an argument that should be borne in mind. I think it is important that the people trust Parliament and think that both Parliament and the electorate are able to work. In fact, I think that this is a risk if a broad consensus cannot be found. For example, let us think that the electoral body will remain exactly as it is now, according to the law, where it has fallen, consisting of 208 voters. Well, let's try to choose the president here. If this Parliament fails, the task will be for the electoral body. But since it is more or less replicating, I think, the same lines of force that are in Parliament, the election will not succeed there either. The task comes back to the Riigikogu and still fails. So what do we do? He's commuting. In fact, when you look at the opinions and thoughts of the writers of the Constitution, their aim and their great desire on which they were based was that the President should still be elected in the Riigikogu, and if he is not elected here, this is where this choice should definitely be made, the electoral body. That is why the electoral body should be as wide as possible and as little as possible copy Parliament's lines of power so that the choice is actually made there. And I think there's a certain danger. I do not know whether this can materialise or not, but let us admit that there is a certain risk that, if the election of the President should be allowed to go back and forth like this all the time, there will eventually be a situation in which, in my opinion, there is a coercion in which a choice must be made. Is this choice the best for Estonia? It might not be like that, it could be like that. But if we can prevent such situations, we should.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U64	Andrei Korobenik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U65	Thank you very much. Good waitress! You've answered similar questions here a few times. At first you said this bill was so late because the coalition didn't bother to work. And then you said the electoral regulation shouldn't change at the last minute, but presidential elections are an exception. You also had some conversation with an official who thought it was the right thing to do. For the sake of clarity, do you really think it's right? This bill was submitted six months before the presidential election. Even in an optimistic scenario, if the coalition worked hard, it wouldn't fit in six months of the bill. Do you think it is right that changes may be made in the presidential election at the last moment because it is different from the other elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U66	Thank you. I have said here several times that we are not actually going to make a change, essentially, when we think about the essence. Yes, we are making a legal change because the number of municipalities has decreased and the number of members of the electoral body has automatically decreased. But the debate that we want to reduce the number of municipal representatives in the electoral body has not been held by anyone in Parliament. I mean, the decision we're making to reduce it hasn't been made by anyone. The purpose of this bill is to keep the situation as it was before. After all, we are not going to fundamentally change the order of the presidential elections, but we want this draft to keep the situation as it was before. That is the purpose of this bill. We're not going to change any principles there. If you really think that the electoral body should have fewer representatives of local governments and more representatives of parliamentary parties, so that the members of the Riigikogu would dominate, now is the right place to make this decision. But then it should also be said, not to ask why we now want to make a difference. We do not want to maintain the situation that has existed since 1996, the principle, the proportion of voters that has been. We want to keep it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U67	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U68	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Lauri Western Forest! With this draft, you want to keep the number of members of the electoral body more or less as high as before the administrative reform, when the number of municipalities was almost four times higher than today. At that time, the President was not elected in the electoral body. You have stressed several times today that such a debate is still needed. I ask you this: mathematics is one thing, but what gives you the assurance that your bill will be more effective in legitimizing the electoral body? Of course, I understand that this issue requires more speculation than rational arguments.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U69	Very, very good question! That is what Toomas asked for at the Kivimägi Commission. What kind of system is more effective in the presidential elections or how the set-up electoral body is more effective, I think that none of us can predict this, because all presidential elections take place at different times and in different contexts, so that cannot be said. However, we will be able to decide on the principles, for example, that the local vote should prevail in the electoral body, or that if Parliament fails to seek consensus, the [choice] would be as diverse as possible. These are the things we can decide, and these are the principles that we are seeking with this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U70	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U71	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good waitress! I'm telling you, it was very embarrassing how Eiki Nestor, your leader, in the last election, raised the current President, Kadriorgu. But my question is, let's not talk about this law, it's kind of a surrogate substitution, but we're talking about who the Social Democrats would really like to see as president in Kadriorg right now? And another small question: will you ever see yourself as President of the Republic of Estonia in Kadriorg?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U72	Thank you. Thank you. I understand that this question was already a matter of recognition for me. Thank you very much. Thank you very much for your support. These questions, whether the [candidate] should be me or anyone else, we haven't discussed at the moment. I hope that we will discuss all this together in Parliament, and if you have any good ideas, come and tell us. I'm sure we'll talk about our good thoughts and people to you. But we haven't started the election process yet.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U73	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U74	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. Good Lauri! The Riigikogu elects citizens, as you know, it is constitutional supreme power. However, because of the interaction between the President of the Republic Election Act, the Local Government Council Election Act and § 56 of the Constitution, the state has decided that these are minor political substances because they do not exercise any higher state power. The higher power of state participates in Riigikogu elections and referendums, but not in presidential elections. And this is where I have to rely on Urve Tiidus, who said that the efficiency of the electoral body is at issue. The question of effectiveness really does exist. I ask why you are repairing a minor electoral body, rather than losing the electoral body at all as such.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U75	Thank you. I do not know why the election of the President must be effective at all or what this 'effective' means. I understand that this could somehow fit into the economic story, into some economic logic or business-related logic, because it seeks some sort of efficiency. But the election of the President should, in my opinion, be as broad as possible, as democratic as possible, and that is what we are actually seeking with this draft. As far as the abolition of the electoral body is concerned, yes, it may be done by someone, but it requires an automatic overhaul of the whole system. Then we must come up with mechanisms for the election of the President in Parliament. For example, if the third time cannot be agreed, then I do not know whether the fourth time will come or whether the number of votes will be reduced at some point or whether some other changes will be made. Or maybe the president's people will choose to be directly elected. These are very long-term and very fundamental changes. Today we can discuss them, but our draft requests that, now that the President is elected this year, and I also dare say that the next time the President is elected, the electoral body would be similar to the previous composition: two thirds of representatives of local government councils and one third of members of the Riigikogu. That's what we're after. It's a relatively small thing. And, in fact, we also applied for this debate in this Parliament. I call on all those who, in the future, are going to ask, Mr Pohlak, I will see that Valdo Randpere is about to ask, and others who have not asked, to state your opinion, especially the members of the coalition. I would ask you right away if you could try to say how you can't, or ask why you can't, why it's not reasonable, but tell me if you're supporting the electoral body to have two thirds of elected representatives of local government councils or not. I think that is the principle that the debate should take place on. Everything else is technical. I also said in the Commission that if the Commission itself wanted to initiate a draft on the same subject and regulate this situation in a slightly different way, then the Social Democrats would be happy to consider it. We can merge these drafts, or we can come along with some other initiative. But let us not leave it the way it has, in a sense, happened today as an accident at work in Parliament. In fact, the question is very simple. Whether your political group or whether you, as a Member of Parliament, want to maintain the number of representatives of local councils as it has been before, or whether you want the number to really change and this time the parliamentary parties would dominate it. That's the simple question. We better have a debate on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U76	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U77	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, Once again, your bill doesn't change anything in the big picture. And I also did not get the answer to my previous question that what the Social Democrats really thought about direct election of the President was quite skilful. If you don't want to speak on behalf of the Socialists, why don't you at least say your point of view? That if the bill for direct election of the President comes to the table, will you support it or not? You speak of broad-based, democratic inclusion, but the most democratic and broad-based can only be the direct election of the President. So, according to you, I get the impression that you're supporting the presidential election in the future. But while I look at your representative Eiki Nestor's statement a few years ago, he totally denied the President's direct election and said that there is no way the Social Democrats would agree to it. What do you think of Mr. Nestor, or do you still stand by your own views?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U78	Thank you. This is a question that cannot simply be answered yes or no. For example, if you mean that we are going to have direct elections to the President, then there must also be some changes to Parliament's rights and to give the President some more rights. I do not know whether you mean such a presidential election procedure and a President with rights such as that of a neighbouring country in Russia. If so, I will definitely say no. Power must still be in the hands of the people, and if it is concentrated in the hands of only one person, then it is far from democracy. A country like this can go up very fast, we've seen it. So it's not possible to answer that way. Put the bill on the table and then let's see what the contents of this bill are: whether they want to make a top-spresident or a president who has the power. Then we can discuss it. But, of course, I am in favour of this principle that people must be able to influence and influence as much as possible state affairs, whether it concerns presidential elections, parliamentary elections, municipal elections or simply government administration.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U79	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U80	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress Lauri! I would like to have a little further debate on this previous question and your answer to my first question. You said you didn't use the expression "awkward," but in your reply you still described the situation in which people see that the Riigikogu is not doing its job and that everything is somehow bad. I can't find it. I think the President can be elected peacefully until the white smoke starts to rise from the chimney, and there's nothing wrong with it. But my second question is that your story is controversial. You're always referring to the previous presidential elections, how unsuccessful they were, because the president wasn't elected by the electoral body. But now you want to take the size of this electorate back to exactly or more or less the same level. Don't you think it's weird? The previous electoral body didn't make it, and now you want to make a new one just like it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U81	Thank you. First of all, I am not always referring to the previous presidential elections. I have done so today, but not like this, or at least the context that came out of this question was not exactly what I said in answering the questions here. It is not a question of whether Parliament has to do its job or whether the electoral body has to do its job. Yeah, you have to do what the law says. I'm not arguing that they're doing this or whether it's right or wrong. I haven't challenged it. Let him stay. The question is how wide a decision will be made on the number of voters, that is the question. [In accordance with current law], the electoral body is gathering with 208 members. 101 of them are members of the Riigikogu and the rest come from local governments. However, the earlier principle that so far the President was elected was that two thirds, or more than 200 voters (according to this bill 232), will come elected by local government councils and will be accompanied by 101 members of the Riigikogu. Then their proportion is roughly two thirds. That's the question. The question is, this debate has not been held in this Chamber, and I will see that it is not to be held in this Chamber. While we can ask questions about the direct election of the President, this is absolutely the right subject, a topic worth discussing, all these issues are important, but let us not hide our heads in the sand, but talk about whether, if we want decisions to be more democratic and broad-soiled, it would be possible for politicians or representatives of the people who represent, for example, non-parliamentary parties and their constituents and supporters, or electoral associations, or for the opposition to be able to come to the local government council to elect the President, we say yes, we believe that the principle that was the case before is correct. This principle, this logic, goes much better with this draft, and we support it. And if we think that [choice should be] in a narrow circle, let's say that if there is such a electoral body[as now], then in a very party circle, which is not bad, I am not saying that it is bad, but it is less broad-based and perhaps less variable, and the stalemate of this hall may pass on to the electoral body, then if we are in favour of it, say that we are in favour of it, it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U82	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U83	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Well, first of all, it is not true that there has been no debate about the presidential election in this Chamber. It was already held during the previous Riigikogu, it was certainly held, and has been held in the past. That's one. Second. Well, your bill qualifies for the category "empty had a child in vain" because it basically doesn't change anything. Basically, it doesn't change anything. What we need to prove now is that the presidential elections will also fail this time, both in the Riigikogu and in the electoral council, in order to give the society a signal once more: there are two ways whether the institution of the President as a meaningless small country such as Estonia loses the last two presidents have given them very many reasons to lose it or to have the President elected by the people. Some sort of interim options, as you propose, talking here about broad-spectrum and greater democracy, well, to yourself, you might not be able to catch up, but to the public and to other politicians. So my question is whether you support the idea of abolishing the President's institution.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U84	Thank you. I never thought about losing the president's institution. I'm telling you right now, I don't think I'd support it. But that was a very nice political speech from a honourable member of the Riigikogu. I would say that you basically said that it is not important for you that there is a greater representation of local people in the electoral community. I'm really sorry that you're talking about directly electing the president, everything else, and then you say we're dealing with some kind of futile activity here. I am very sorry that this is the position of the former Chairman of the EKRE. In my opinion, all of your earlier talk, you actually flushed it down the toilet right now. That's not how it should be. I call on you [to read this bill]. I think maybe you haven't read the bill. I just haven't read it. Take this bill for a moment, there's still time, I'll see that the questions come and read it. See what it says, and maybe you'll still find a way to think about it and support it. I would like to reiterate that we cannot make any major changes to the current time frame in the presidential elections, simply because the presidential elections are already in the near future. But what we can do is to maintain the existing proportions in the electoral body, which are not in Parliament's favour, which is not, as the questioner has usually said, in favour of cartel parties. However, it seems to me that you, too, are well suited to the composition of the electoral body in which political parties dominate, because if you are not in favour of this draft, you are supporting it[for political parties to dominate].
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U85	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U86	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I'm listening to you talk about this broad-based definition, you want to give a broad-based opportunity through the voters. I do not think this definition is quite correct, because it is rather narrow-minded. A broad-based one would still expect people to listen to what they see as president. Coming to Siim Pohlak's question, he asked if you would be willing to support this version so that the people could choose the president. I didn't hear a direct answer to that either. I think the reference was to Putin, so we wouldn't want that kind of thing. Well, I'll make it a little bit easier, and I'll put it this way, so that the rights of the president's institution remain the same as they have been, but the people would choose their own president. I suppose that would be broad-based. Would you be willing to work out a bill like this with us?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U87	I'm telling you, if I had to make the law that the people would elect the president, I wouldn't keep the President's rights the same. I think the president needs to get more rights. Otherwise, people would be told to just pick a face to represent. And then he has a very large mandate. How does this relate to Parliament? I suggest you think about it. I don't think that's a good choice either. That's where the debate is going, what's good and what's not. But that's not the subject of this bill at all. You're always trying to talk about the fact that the president should be elected by the people. Then put forward the bill! Where's the bill? I haven't seen this bill. You talk all the time, you talk-talk-talk, but there's no bill. This draft would maintain the status quo so that local people can choose the council and their local representatives can elect voters in the electoral body. This bill would maintain the situation that has been so far so that it would not disappear in any way as a 'job accident' because of administrative reform. The question is that if we have a presidential election and you have not submitted your draft, even if you do, it will not be possible to implement it so quickly, whether you support this principle or you do not support it. It's as simple as that. Parliament has not knowingly held a debate on this issue here in order to reduce the composition of the electoral body. This debate has not taken place in Parliament, as far as I know. I would rather expect you to speak about whether or not you are now supporting this draft. In the Commission, you supported. Dear Grünthal, I am very grateful to you. I think the people of Estonia will be grateful to you. The Social Democrats are grateful to you. And I see that the people in the hall are also very grateful to you for that. But now there will be a vote on the bill and support it then too.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U88	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U89	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. What do you want me to say about what you gave me to my last question? You fell to teach me. Don't teach me! Don't! You're not smart enough to teach me. I would also like to make a remark, and I would also teach you that if you talk, stop whining, whineing and onshowing. It's a much more beautiful written language if you give up these things. I'll teach you a little while while we're teaching each other. My question is, you're always talking about why we're not putting forward this bill. But we'll put forward a bill. We will also present this draft within the next Riigikogu, where perhaps there will be no more social democrats. And we're gonna bring this issue to the point where the people are gonna choose the president. But as long as we don't have the strength to implement this plan, we're just gonna have to declare it. We have always supported the President's direct elections and we are also supporting today, and in order to reach the President's direct elections, we want the presidential elections to fail in accordance with the current procedure and in their current form.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U90	Thank you. I've been dreaming about different things since I was little. Dreams have often not come true. I think it's like this with all of us. When we talk about democracy, I think that every Member could have such a dream or wish that, in the next composition, we will see both the parties that are here today and those who are not here. The more we are, the better the wishes and visions of different people are represented here. I think that this is a pretty important principle that could be based on. But I don't want to teach. Of course, each person can make these choices on his own.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U91	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U92	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! We have actually submitted a draft direct election to the President. We did so in the previous Riigikogu, we will do so in this too. But that's got nothing to do with this right now. The fact that there are few voters today is also the case with the social democrats, because you yourself supported regional administrative reform in the previous composition. So look in the mirror. But what I'm asking is that as a former self-governing figure, you know, in a local government...... as a coalition decides, and what difference does it make whether the coalition decides to send two reform parties or one reform party or two middle parties or one middle party. [[The connection's breaking up.]] There is no difference between the final result, or the election of the President.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U93	Yes, thank you! In the meantime, the connection broke, I didn't hear everything, but I guess I got the point. Actually, there is a difference. [Currently] many local authorities would send in the autumn if we did not support this bill to represent one person, that is, one person is elected on the council. However, if the legislative amendment resulting from this draft is implemented, two representatives, for example, should be elected to the electoral body in some municipalities. This means that they will be put to the vote at once. And let's just say it's simple mathematics, we all know that in the Riigikogu, for example, when we elect the chairman of the committee, it's always the way that the coalition has a little more votes, the opposition has less votes, but the fact is that if we choose this, both the coalition and the opposition will be elected. If the coalition wanted to choose two of its people for two voters, it would most likely happen that they have so many votes, or just so few, that each of their candidates gets a vote, but... I'll give you an example. If the local council has 21 members and two voters are elected, the coalition has 11 votes and the opposition has 10 votes and the coalition wants to choose two of its people, then the coalition's 11 votes are divided between two people. One of them will most likely be elected, it is not, but both of them are not, because the opposition representative may receive, for example, 10 votes, so that in any case the opposition will be elected. In the case of the three representatives, it is very likely that the coalition will receive two voters and the opposition will receive one, but in any case from the two representatives of the opposition will certainly come more. I think that the local council would work particularly well if it did not even look at whether there was an opposition or a coalition, but instead tried to find some kind of consensus. It looks at who, for example, has received the most votes or who we have the most experienced council member so that he can go to represent our community in that electoral body. I think it would be a good option.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U94	Dear waitress, No further questions for you. Thank you very much. And now the representative of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Toomas Kivimägi, can come as a waitress for the remote control.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U95	Very honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say one reply before we go to the debate that took place in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I think today's debate has clearly confirmed that changing the procedure for electing the President of the Republic is not only exciting, but actually and sincerely very relevant. However, as my own point of view, four months before the President's election, it is a very wrong time to make changes. And in fact, the fact that the representatives of local government councils in the electoral body were considerably less than there were five years ago was known since 2017. In this sense, once again, this debate, this draft, in terms of its content, is absolutely appropriate, but four months before the elections [it is not the right time]. This is the essence of this fundamental dispute, and also the reason why most members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not support this draft. But now we are going to the debate on the draft that took place in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Constitutional Commission discussed this on Tuesday 13 April 2021. All members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the staff of the Secretariat took part and Mariko Jõeorg-Jurtshenko, adviser to the Public Law Service of the Ministry of Justice, was also invited. First, Lauri Läänemets gave an overview of the draft on behalf of the initiators. Since neither I nor probably anyone else can present Lauri's views better than he does, I believe Lauri apologises for not introducing what she was talking about in the committee, all the more because it completely coincided with what Lauri said here today. And, of course, Lauri had the opportunity to explain and justify much longer. For the sake of the protocol, I note that Mr Leichter first informed the Commission's secretariat that Kalle Kulbok and Enn Tõruvere had also sent a letter to the Commission with their proposals and opinions on the presidential elections. They were heard and expressed an opinion. Paul Puustusmaa then noted that the regulation of the election of the President of the Republic should be dealt with more broadly, not merely on the basis of the draft submitted by the Social Democratic Party Group, and should give rise to a deeper discussion. He mentioned that there are many possibilities for change. One way is to abolish the President's institution at all and to give the Prime Minister the duties of the current President. The second option is to establish direct elections to the President of the Republic. At this point, Lauri Läänemets said that, of course, a major debate could be held on possible changes to the procedure for electing the President of the Republic, but this draft is based on existing law and is intended to ensure the continuation of the principle that has been in force for a very long time, i.e. that the same proportion should be maintained between representatives of local government councils and members of the Riigikogu. Secondly, as has already been said in this Chamber, Paul Puustusmaa was interested in why the number of citizens with a right to vote from 16 years of age on the territory of the municipality of local government is still based on the number of citizens registered in the national register of citizens with a right to vote in Estonia and it is not stated that the calculation is based on persons aged 16 or over. At this point, Lauri Läänemets replied that this was justified in every way, as the local government council can choose persons who have reached the age of 16. Toomas Kivimägi then said that the topic of the election of the President of the Republic was undoubtedly very interesting and found that the fact that the number of local government representatives in the electoral body was calculated on the basis of citizens with a right to vote of at least 16 years of age is logical because the local government council can choose persons from the age of 16. Toomas Kivimägi also noted that he personally disliked the fact that a number of representatives from which local government would belong would be counted for the next presidential election in order to determine whether or not certain political parties would receive a suitable president. It's not the right approach, it shouldn't be done. I would like to add, as my comment, that Lauri Läänemets suspected that perhaps the coalition parties had made some adjustments, I admit that we have not made any adjustments. One or the other draft must certainly not be drawn up by looking at what the result will be. This must be done and based on principles that are considered right. I also stress what I said at the committee meeting, and what is my personal position, I have no knowledge of the position of the party and of the political group, that as § 79 of the Constitution says: 'The President of the Republic is elected by the Riigikogu or, in the case provided for in the fourth paragraph of this section, by the electoral body', I consider that the prerogative of the election of the President of the Republic, or prerogative, is given to the Riigikogu, which can choose the President in three rounds. It should be assumed that the authors of the Constitution have assumed that the Riigikogu is the institution that elects the President. And when it comes to the electoral body, the one who has been given the prerogative should be more represented in the electoral body than he has been before. So far, the Riigikogu has actually been smaller, considerably smaller, and this has probably come from the mathematical fact that there were just so many local governments and everyone had to be able to send at least one representative to the electoral body. Toomas Kivimägi felt that, at present, due to administrative reform and the reduction of local authorities, the electoral body would be much more balanced and proportionate and in line with the Constitutional provision and the prerogative. Lauri Läänemets noted that Toomas Kivimägi is certainly right that the President should be elected by the Riigikogu. However, in a situation where the Riigikogu is unable to elect the President, the electoral body must do so. And Lauri Läänemets found that the smaller the number of members of the electoral body, the closer the stalemate in the Riigikogu to the stalemate in the Riigikogu, could occur in the electoral body. Mr Puustusmaa mentioned that the procedure of the new draft, i.e. the draft in question, should not be hasty and could only take effect in the next presidential elections, as there is so little time left for the presidential elections to take place this year that they will no longer be affected. Lauri Läänemets felt that Paul Puustusmaa's proposal was good in itself, but this draft was presented this year on the verge of this year, and that the initiators wanted their proposal to be valid for the presidential elections already taking place this year. Lauri Läänemets added that this draft does not change the procedure for the election of the President, but it concerns only the municipalities, who would then be able to send two to the electoral body instead of one representative. Toomas Kivimägi said that the Government of the Republic has also expressed its position on the draft, and the Government's position is not to support the draft. In its letter, the Government of the Republic explains that as a result of the administrative-territorial reform, the number of local government units decreased significantly and that as a result the number of representatives of councils in the electoral body decreases. This has been known since 2017. The election of the President of the Republic will take place from 10 August to 29 September and the Government of the Republic cannot support the amendment of the President of the Republic's Election Act as a matter of urgency. Moreover, this is not in line with the principle that has been repeatedly mentioned here: the electoral rules must be clear in good time before the elections, and both the electorate and the candidate must have time to learn about the new rules and choose how to act. Kalle Grünthal said that the basis of all democracy is the broadest possible decision-making and the larger the circle of decision-makers, the more democratic the way the matter is handled. If the people were to decide on the presidential elections, this would be the most democratic way of electing the President, because it is practically impossible to influence such a number of decision-makers. Toomas Kivimägi noted that I hope Kalle Grünthal did not want to question the legitimacy of the Riigikogu, because in the first three rounds the Riigikogu, consisting of 101 members, still elects the President. Mr Läänemets mentioned that he understood the position of the Government of the Republic that no fundamental changes should be made to the electoral law just before the elections. However, this draft does not change any important details of the elections, but only concerns the size of the electoral body. And now I emphasise what is quite important, namely, Mr Jõeorg-Jurtshenko, that an illustrative list of the changes that should not be made just before the elections has not actually been presented anywhere. It is classic to consider those provisions which should not be amended immediately before the elections, the provisions relating to the application procedure and the provisions relating to the voting procedure. When it comes to this draft, it cannot actually be said that it would not change anything significantly, because since the administrative reform took place in 2017, all local authorities have lived with the knowledge that the electoral body is significantly smaller. However, if the principles for setting up a electoral body are changed, this is a significant change. Mr Jõeorg-Jurtshenko pointed out that as regards the clarification of the provision of citizens with a right to vote in the draft, there was no problem, and this could also be done shortly before the elections. Toomas Kivimägi also reiterated that he did not like to make this change just before the elections, as it provides an opportunity to calculate which candidate would most likely receive greater support from the electoral body according to one or the other formula. Toomas Kivimägi noted that in the past, in the case of small municipalities, the coalition has been a representative of the electoral body. If, according to the draft, a very large number of municipalities will have two representatives in the electoral body instead of one, this means that the electoral body will have both a coalition and a representative of the opposition. This is not a bad thing in itself, but such a change can quite change the internal proportions of the electoral body. Mr Läänemets said that the draft would certainly change the electoral body, but rather in a positive direction rather than in a negative direction. Kalle Grünthal felt that it did not matter, in his opinion, how many coalition and opposition representatives belong to the electoral body, but that a larger number of members of the electoral body would mean that some member of the electoral body, who is independent and decides to vote in a way, could make the whole decision-making process more democratic. Subsequently, procedural decisions were taken. Firstly, to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 4 May 2021. The decision was consensual. Secondly, propose that the draft be rejected. There were five members on its side: Toomas Kivimägi, Andrei Korobenik, Oudekki Loone, Marko Storm, Mart Võrguship. Four opposed: Kalle Grünthal, Lauri Läänemets, Paul Puustusmaa and Urmas Reinsalu. There were no abstentions. It was decided to appoint Toomas Kivimägi, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as rapporteur. The decision was consensual. However, I will also add one non-protocol comment. The rapporteur asked repeatedly whether the political parties in the government coalition had taken a position on whether or not to reduce the number of representatives of local government councils in the electoral body. I say that this is indeed the position taken by the government, neither in the same way nor in the opposite direction. I repeat: the government's position not to support this draft is primarily based on the fact that only four months have passed until the President's elections, and the government still considers that these are fundamental changes that should be made at least one year before the elections. So to argue, just as the Centre Party and the Reform Party would support a reduction in the number of representatives of local governments in the electoral round, no such decision has been made, but there is nothing to the contrary. And another kind of more general line. I also admit that the fact that the election of the President of the Republic to the electoral body did not succeed is not logical and justified. I think that if the Riigikogu cannot elect the President of the Republic on three occasions, then the President of the Riigikogu should still be elected. The solution is very simple: if empty notes were to be thrown into the trash and not counted as part of the vote, then the President of the Republic of the electoral body would certainly be elected. So it is a very simple solution to this problem to make a small amendment of the law if we want to do so. But, of course, it is not relevant today either, since there are four months left until the President's election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U96	Good waitress, no questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U97	That's too bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U98	You don't have to be sorry at all. This may indicate that the report was very good and no one asked questions. Now, there's a way to negotiate. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U99	[[Remote connection]] Good deputy speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, The presidential elections are, of course, something that is exciting and, unfortunately, always politically agile. But it's probably just part of the story. The Social Democratic Party has submitted a bill that is frustrated that there are significantly fewer voters in the electoral body than in the past. However, it was also the Social Democrats who actually supported this territorial administrative reform, who voted in favour of it. Undoubtedly, the fact that the number of voters will be smaller due to the reduction of local governments could not have been unknown or secret to anyone. So, indeed, here, the Social Democrats should actually look in the mirror, as should the Reform Party and others who supported this administrative-territorial reform, which unfortunately today has shown that there has been no real benefit in terms of substance. These parties are all equally responsible for this situation. Coming now, with such a small margin of time before the presidential elections, with a draft that would change this order, does not belong to absolutely good practice. After all, it has been generally agreed and the rule has become not only here in Estonia, but throughout Europe, that such amendments are made at least one year before the elections. When we talk about the presidential elections, of course, when we talk about democracy, when we talk about the people being the highest power in the country, the President must be elected by the people. This is the case in about half of the European countries, including our closest neighbours. By the way, the first presidential elections in Estonia, which were re-independant, were organised in exactly the same way by direct election. It was the people who chose the president. So there's nothing new about it. Whether a coalition sends one or two representatives to the electoral body somewhere in the municipality does not really change the outcome of these elections. These results remain exactly the same, regardless of whether there are one or two people from one political party. And when we come back to the President's direct election, it is often said as a counter-opinion that the people are not yet ready for it, the President gets too much mandate, etc. In fact, let us look northward, towards Finland. There, too, the people have not always chosen the President, but it began to be so, if I am not mistaken, in the 1970s and even then its opponents put forward exactly the same arguments that the state would become authoritarian, the President would have too much power. Has any such threat materialised in Finland? I'm asking for three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U100	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U101	We know that these threats have not really come true. Finland is just as democratic a country as it was in the past and, in fact, much more democratic, because now the people have the right to decide on the President, the people having the right to choose the President themselves. This draft is not supported by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, but we will support the President's direct elections and do everything we can to achieve it, and we will shortly re-submit the corresponding draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U102	There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before we go to the Committee on the Leading Commission's proposal to reject draft 340 at first reading, I will take a ten-minute break so that a small technical problem can be eliminated and we can vote properly. Break ten minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, we have eliminated technical failures. We can go to the commission's proposal to reject draft 340 at first reading. I shall put the proposal of the commission to the vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-04_U103	The proposal was supported by 63 members of the Riigikogu, 18 against and no abstentions. Draft 340 SE has been rejected at first reading. Ladies and gentlemen, by this we have exhausted today's agenda. Get back to work on the committees, I'll see you tomorrow! Have a good day.
