ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We are starting the first working week of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu; today is the Thursday session. We will be able to deliver drafts and hearings before the hearing begins. Can't see the storm and the urge. Okay, then we'll do a presence check. Incoming check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U2	As present, 57 members of the Riigikogu signed up.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U3	Let's go to today's agenda. Today we have one item on the agenda, this is a crucial national issue initiated by the Group of the Social Democratic Party: 'Equality in Estonia - can we cut out of poverty?' a debate. It looks like, according to the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, the Riigikogu's Management Board, acting on a proposal from the Sotsi Group, determined the procedure for the discussion as follows. First, we get a presentation from economic analyst Madis Aben, whose presentation is 20 minutes long, and the time for questions and answers is 30 minutes. Next, Professor of Urban and Population Geography Tiit Tammaru, whose presentation is also 20 minutes, and questions and answers 30 minutes. The presentation will then be presented by Professor Emeritus Marju Lauristin, his presentation will also be 20 minutes and the questions and answers will be 30 minutes. And the last presentation is a presentation by Riina Sikkut, a member of the Social Democratic Party Group, which is 15 minutes, and the answers to questions are up to 15 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may ask any waitress up to two questions, but if it does not fit in 30 minutes, it cannot. After questions and presentations, we have negotiations and speeches can be made by members of the Riigikogu, representatives of committees and political groups. Since the Social Democratic Party Group is the initiator, they are the first. At the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. The Group of the Social Democratic Party has proposed, if we do not close at one o'clock, to extend the session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 2 o'clock. Now we can go to the reports, and the first thing I'm gonna do is call Madis Aben. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U4	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good President! Today, I have the honour to tell you about some of the links between inequality and the economy. I will start with what has been happening recently with inequality. Two things have happened: one is that inequality has increased, and the other is that more has been said about it. [[Show slides.]] On this picture, this red line shows the proportion of income earned in the United States that was put in its pocket by the wealthiest tenth of the population. Apparently, there was some sort of stable period in the middle of the century. The timeline, the horizontal axis, runs from the beginning of the century to almost today. In the mid-century, there was a period in which [the share of income going to a more prosperous tenth] was one third, and since the 1980s, the share of income from a more prosperous tenth in the United States has risen steadily to 50%. The same trend was observed before major depression in the 1920s, where this proportion went to the same level. This picture is about the United States, but more or less a similar picture can also be drawn about the United Kingdom. For the rest of the world, the situation is more varied and the increase in inequality has not been so rapid. But not only have inequality been dealt with until the major financial crisis, or economic analysts elected already 12 years ago, but since the major financial crisis, all international financial organisations have taken up this issue, in addition to the OECD and the European Commission, the International Monetary Fund and the Davos Economic Forum will not be able to overcome it. I am not talking Estonia-specifically today because there are no major conclusions to be drawn from the links between the economy and inequality on the basis of one small country. But here on [slaide] I am simply showing some of the recommendations made by the European Commission, which have been given to the Estonian state in the last seven years. Social aspects are mentioned each year, among other things. Perhaps most specifically, the link between the economy and inequality must be developed in the recommendations issued in 2015 and, in fact, before that: to increase incentives for low-wage earners to work. This was done in Estonia since 2018 when tax-free income was raised to 500 euros. But the European Commission is, of course, a political organisation, and that is why one can say, what then, maybe this is a taste thing. And the taste of the Estonian word is not disputed. Next, I look at some relations between inequality and economic development. If the keywords "inequality" and "good growth" are Googled, then it is easy to reach a simple picture with "cons" on the right and "pros" on the left, i.e. the reasons why inequality could be useful for growth. With this right side aside, there are things on the left side: inequality creates incentives, rewards risk taking, rewards hard work, etc. These lower boxes, or their claims, can probably be accepted and, in particular, risk-taking must be highlighted here. Today's developed economies are growing primarily through innovation. Innovation is well known to be a risky activity to be undertaken by an entrepreneur or a scientist, and it is important that he has the hope of economic benefits from it. It may seem a little cynical, this economist's construction, that the only thing that motivates people is money, but you can't possibly miss it. So, yes, at this micro level, certain inequalities and economic incentives are important for economic development. Up there is a phenomenon such as the trickle-down effect, which came into use during Ronald Reagan's reign, and which was quite well defined by Andrei Hvostov in an Estonian Express essay, dealing with the Irish economy. This was the case: "The social agreement in Ireland is based on the established assumption that the faster the reeds go on the table, the more crumbs fall on the table. " When I set aside a green light on these three bottom boxes, the top one is orange rather than red, but not also green, because if we recall the first red line graph, at least since the 1980s, more and more incomes have been concentrated on the top end of the income distribution, especially in the United States and in some other countries, but also elsewhere, and less and less have inevitably come down there. From this picture, it looks like these pluses and minuses are balanced. However, if we look further, in 2010, shortly after the outbreak of the major financial crisis, a book published in Estonian could be titled "Tectonic Divergences," which dealt with the causes of the major financial crisis and concluded that one of the important causes of the major financial crisis was the increase in inequality in the United States. Unfortunately, I cannot describe these mechanisms here right now. One of the causes of the financial crisis is the rapid growth of housing loans in the United States, especially for those with lower incomes whose real incomes had stagnated over a few decades to this financial crisis. The political solution, which was simple but was not substantive, was to promote cheap housing loans for them. This increased the price of real estate, which in turn allowed consumption loans to be taken, and thus helped those groups of the population who did not benefit from the rapid economic growth enjoyed by the upper end of the income distribution to increase their consumption capacity. But we know how it all ended. Let Them Eat Credit is the title of the first chapter of this book. Of course, one might ask whether the conclusions drawn in that book are still firm. However, it has been a financial economist at the University of Chicago, both now and in the past, who has also been the chief economist of the International Monetary Fund, including the President of the Central Bank of India for four years. He was one of the few who predicted this financial crisis very clearly in 2005. So these conclusions are generally, as it seems, waterproof. But since a person's life is not just about the economy, you can look at this picture a little bit wider and ask if inequality could be bad for any other reason. On this graph, the world's countries are pictured on two axes: the horizontal axis has state prosperity (GDP per capita) and the vertical axis has life expectancy at birth. The message of this picture is that at the poorer end of prosperity, on the left side of the centre line, there is a clear link between the increase in wealth and the increase in life expectancy, but if countries are rich enough, the link will disappear (see top edge of the graph). This picture is five or six years old, Estonia is marked with a large blue dot in this picture. As you can see, Estonia is about to arrive at the club of the so-called rich countries, where the additional increase in average wealth will no longer make a significant contribution to the increase in life expectancy, at least this indicator. Why Life expectancy? Because it is a good aggregate indicator that can be objectively measured, many countries around the world have been measured, and it summarises a large number of indicators related to health and social development. Now I come to the most important picture in my report, in my opinion. It's a little like the last one, but not exactly. Here the wealthier countries have been plucked from the top of the previous schedule, where the average level of prosperity no longer contributes very much to prosperity. But these axes have a slightly different definition. This horizontal axis is a distribution of income, not wealth, and a vertical axis is an index of health and social problems, consisting of sub-components on the right side of the slide, including life expectancy, child mortality, killings, proportion of prisoners, teen pregnancy, trust in society, obesity, mental health problems, drug use, social mobility and perhaps something else. Here there is a very clear and strong solid link, which shows that the more uneven the distribution of income, the greater the problems [listed here] in society. These authors, Wilkinson and Pickett, two epidemiologists in the United Kingdom, formulated the main conclusion of their book in such a way that health and social problems are greater in the most unequal countries at all levels of living. These are the so-called social gradient problems that, in each country or society, these problems are exacerbated by the poorer sections of the population, which are probably intuitive, but their conclusion was that, in fact, this unevenr distribution of income also affects the more prosperous sections of the population. What is this 'transmission mechanism', why is it like this? They came to this conclusion in a book published ten years later. This mechanism takes the form of social status. Man is still a pack animal, and every animal in the flock knows what his position is, to whom he must look up and to whom he can look down. Their claim is that major differences in social status give rise to a sense of superiority and inferiority, making them think more about their social status, the greater these social status differences are. This leads to stress, health problems, violence, less social relations and trust, excessive alcohol consumption, drugs and various activities related to self-esteem, the consumption of status goods, which, when taken together, still does not make anyone happier. These books have been criticised, especially for the first time. At the same time, however, it is a popular scientific summary of hundreds of research activities. All this criticism has been answered, and it has been relatively convincingly overturned, so it seems to me that the current knowledge is what I have just presented to you about inequality, social problems and health problems. Then another aspect, perhaps not directly related to the economy, was said to be the right one to pass several presentations during the higher national defence courses in the spring. In fact, the socialisation of certain associations involved in inequality is an increasing threat to Estonia's national security, as those people who feel deprived of the welfare growth that surrounds them are easy prey to the influence of hostile forces. What do you want to do with all this now? I'm not sure I'm ready to come up with solutions. At a very general level, it can be noted that there is still a clear need to focus on the equality of opportunities for quality education. But it's a very broad subject, it doesn't just mean the pay of teachers. We can complete education at school and university and do academic degrees, but the foundation is still laid at an early age long before going to school. I could not explain the mechanism why the increase in inequality in the United States was precisely the cause of the financial crisis. Where did this increase in inequality come from? This came from the fact that the U.S. school system, the education system, but perhaps also the wider social system, could not sufficiently prepare high school graduates of sufficient quality who would have been able to enter university, acquire education and meet the growing need for top specialists in the workforce. As the demand for these specialists was high, it was simply those who had an education that their salaries rose quickly and who did not have them for any reason, that they were lagging behind in their wage development. So, my report is over. But to conclude, this conclusion, which scientists have reached as a result of the great efforts of long years, can also come another way. Here [slaid] has one classic quote ["The insatiability of man does not depend on what he has or what he lacks, but on what others enjoy and what he misses." (A.H.Tammsaare)), which, I think, sums up pretty well my report on the other side. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U5	Thank you very much. There is now a round of questions and answers. First Kalvi Tough. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U6	Thanks! Thank you very much for this wonderful presentation. I agree with one hundred percent that education and children are the keywords to which we have to devote a great deal so that poverty does not increase poverty. It must be said that there is still a situation in Estonia where a child from a poor family can also go to Treffner and the University of Tartu or other well-known Estonian schools. And certainly our small schools also offer good education. But another nuance, which I think creates very great inequality in Estonia, is regional distribution. Perhaps Estonia's wealth and good life are more in and around large cities, but poverty is spreading in forest villages. What can be done about it? I see it's very difficult to break this trend without state intervention. What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U7	Thank you. I think maybe the next waitress can answer that question a little better. But one comment on your first remark that a poor child can also be admitted to Hugo Treffner Gymnasium. Yes, indeed, that is not entirely out of the question. The results of the PISA test are still very good for Estonia. At the same time, such research, which has been done very much by Kaire Põder and her colleagues, however, says that Tallinn and perhaps Tartu's elite school system selects students according to their family social background. And the higher education system, the so-called free higher education system that we have, has not actually served its purpose in terms of giving more equal access to good, prospective and highly paid specialties at the university. Yeah, maybe we're in such a change right now that the old inertial school system is still working relatively well, but it doesn't have to produce good results forever. But I'm afraid I don't really know how to answer that question. Let's wait for the next report.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U8	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U9	Good manager! Good waitress, thank you for your interesting presentation. I have some questions. The first is for this red graph you have here, according to the United States, the income distribution is uneven. What is the picture of Estonia as a whole and what would be the same graph between North Estonia and South Estonia? That's the first question. And another, giving an equal opportunity to get a high-quality education. Well, we know that the various layers of society are in different aquarias, and they're getting worse, and jumping out of there is quite difficult. Back in the day when Aaviksoo was doing this higher education reform, the plan was for poor boys and girls to go to college. The result was the opposite for foreign students and started to switch to English, with no effect.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U10	Thank you. That's the second question I've already answered. Kaire Moose has studied it very thoroughly. Indeed, the expected positive effects of the reform of higher education, free higher education, have not materialised. I guess there's something else we need to do. But it is probably also linked to what is happening in families and at lower levels of education. I do not know from time to time whether such regional inequality statistics even exist in Estonia. I didn't show any pictures of Estonian inequality here. But I think that the situation of our inequalities in the context of the European Union is indirectly assessed, because we still have to compare ourselves with our neighbours, and the same recommendations from the European Commission provide an assessment. I think you can see better than you can from a distance. Looking at Brussels, our social situation and inequality have come to our attention. Clearly, we are more unequal in terms of our income distribution than in the Nordic countries and certainly in a better situation than in the United Kingdom, which is historically a class society. I don't know about regional differences. But in the case of Estonia, the difference between the surrounding capital and the rest of Estonia is a big one. The difference between Estonia and the surrounding capital and Tartu and the rest of the regions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U11	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U12	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Thank you also to the waitress for a good presentation. My question is about your 12th slide. There you also opened up health and social problems in countries with greater inequality. This slide, where this line went quite linearly between countries, has Japan at one end and the US at the other end. That's my question. We know that Japan is a country with a highly homogeneous population, while the US could be clearly referred to as the country of migrants, there is a very high proportion of them, and we have also seen that there are often inequalities between migrants, whether they have come to the country freshly or not for some time. Can we now draw a clear line here that... the more homogeneous the country, the less social problems and the better the health of the people? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U13	Thank you for your question. That is a perfectly appropriate comment. As I mentioned, this work has been tried hard to criticise, and one criticism has also been that, if we take into account the homogeneity of national compositions, it is as if it explains inequality and the resulting social and health problems. But the authors of the study claim that even if this is taken into account, this relationship remains valid. So that's not the only explanation. But the truth is that one of the reasons why the US pays less attention to equality is that solidarity between people from very different backgrounds is inevitably less than in the Nordic countries, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U14	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U15	Thank you. Thank you very much for this presentation. Definitely very thought-provoking facts. I ask briefly once again about this table on the incomes of the wealthiest tenth of the population in the United States in 1910-2010. Is my memory correct and, broadly speaking, this U.S. chart is detractable to the whole world? These changes have taken several decades, certainly in the Soviet bloc in the 1980s and 1990s had slightly different trends, but broadly this increase in income inequality has moved everywhere as a trend. And my second question is this: but what is it to reduce this inequality, this meter? We are used to measuring GDP and are very pleased that it has moved up quickly. What can we consider as a society in order to solve these problems?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U16	Thank you. This graph I showed you, in the case of the United States, does not apply to all countries. As I said, it is possible to draw a similar graph for the United Kingdom, but for example, for Japan and also for France, this graph is far less steep. But it is true that, in most countries since 1980, this inequality has gradually increased, but certainly not so quickly. But here I think you might recall what Jonathan Vseviov has said. Specifically, if you want to know where Europe is going, look where America is now. So this trend like it tends to exist. About the gauges. This picture I showed you, yes, these meters are different and there will be many. Let's say this Gini index, which maybe the most spoken about, is one that measures the distribution of income across society. The picture I showed and used in this study was the ratio of income to income for a wealthier and poorer income quintile. But yes, it depends on what's being followed. And now, when you come to this red line on the first slide, it marked an increase in the share of wealthier 10% of income. In fact, this wealthier 10% increase was mostly influenced by the 1% increase in wealthier shares and 0.1% thereafter. So this peak in America, which is a superpower, just got out of hand.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U17	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask that we fit our question in one minute. A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U18	Thank you. Thank you very much to the waitress for an interesting and necessary presentation. My question also concerns the health sector and perhaps even the most painful problem in the world at the moment. I do not have any scientific analyses or studies, but I have read the facts about it in medical journals, and the opinion about Estonia is based on empirical observation. The lower the economic income, the lower the number of people vaccinated. Have you noticed such articles or observations, and can you comment on this? It is not about anti-vaccines, it is simply a correlation with economic income.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U19	Thank you! Maybe you can explain it by saying that the more everyday life problems you have with coping, the less you think about security. I think the Maslow Needs hierarchy explains that until basic needs are met or there are problems with them, there will be no greater security needs. So maybe that's the explanation. But I don't want to go into the details, I don't know the subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U20	Good luck Hill, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U21	Thank you for this presentation. I'm coming back to education. In your presentation, you presented the unity of education as a solution. After all, we in Estonia currently have two parallel systems in education, in particular the language of instruction, which creates unequal opportunities for both children and young people in the future, because a number of young people, unfortunately, do not learn the national language and that is why the labour market is later disadvantaged. How much do you think the transition to a common country-language education will play, for example, from kindergarten and then from there?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U22	Thank you. Well, it's not my competence again, but I guess it is. As was the case here in one of the previous questions, the difference between national backgrounds, on the one hand, still creates inequalities and, on the other hand, also prevents the adoption of measures to reduce political inequalities. So, yes, it is difficult to see that it could not have a positive impact on the common system of education.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U23	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U24	Thank you. Good waitress! You gave an example here of other countries and the recommendations of international organisations to Estonia. But do you find it yourself - it was also on one of the slides - that in Estonia the salary is transparent enough? Most workers, for example, who receive EUR 2 000, do not know that the employer has actually cost him EUR 3469. He'll never see it. He has no sense of how much tax is actually paid inside it, but the employer has already withheld them from his salary at the request of the state, adding some more to it. If an employee gets the feeling that his salary is low and compares it with the salary of a person in another country, it is not certain which one is talking about either what he gets or what was the actual salary from which taxes went off. You brought America, for example, there in the same way, in America and Canada, a person gets that $3469 and has to pay his own taxes. Would it not be more honest if this system were more transparent?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U25	Yes, thank you! Very relevant comment or question. Indeed, the comparison of wages between countries is very difficult. Therefore, if you go, for example, to Eurostat, the website of the European Statistical Office, you will not easily find comparable data, say gross wages for different countries. It is precisely for the very reason that you mentioned that these labour taxes are very differently designed. Where does the difference come from? The difference is how much labour taxes are employee taxes, which are like gross wages, and how much the employer has paid, in our case the social tax, which is the employer's tax. This international comparison is ensured by using an indicator such as labour costs, where all these taxes are included, regardless of who pays them formally or legally. But it doesn't really matter who's paying it. In this sense, it is rather such a question of international comparison. At national level, I think everyone knows more or less what they're talking about. Assuming that all national taxes have been paid, we are talking about either gross wages or net wages, there is no big difference. Then we'll have to agree. In order to simplify the taxation of wages, I have suggested putting together income tax and social tax into one labour tax, it would be clearer. And it doesn't really matter whether it's paid by an employer or an employee. In this respect, of course, the international comparison will get mixed up when we compare wages. If we compare the labour costs that statisticians and analysts compare more closely, this comparability will be maintained. Another reason why this social tax and income tax could be put together. This is not a very advanced or developed idea, but still, in this case transparency would improve and then we would not be entangled in discussions about whether the employer's share or the employee's share should increase or reduce taxes. It doesn't matter. The difference between labour costs and net wages is important. This should be the subject of a discussion. And if we now come to the main theme of today, then: what is this tax wedge, as it is called, say, the difference between the employer's salary and net salary, i.e. how should it be spread over the pay scale, how much is it? Because right now we have a tax-free minimum of 500 euros, right, it is exempt from income tax, while social tax has been burdened with all wage income since the first euro. In principle, if so desired, it would be possible to increase the net income of low-wage earners by also reducing the share of social tax at the bottom of the income distribution. But this, of course, requires major changes to the tax and benefit system.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U26	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U27	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, Has man's laziness and inequality been studied, the relationship between them? Because we know that a person can learn as much as he can, do as much work as he wants, train as he wants, etc. After all, everything depends on man's own will.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U28	Thank you. Big question. Everything's been studied. It is likely to be the case that we are not all born equal in this world. And there's a lot going on. When we enter the first class, when we enter university, or when we enter working life, we are not all on the same line. However, much depends on which family, not to mention which country of the world you were born into, and how your productivity and income will develop in this way. Of course, there is a human contribution, but I would not like to speculate on the relationship between the conditions for life given by parents and the ability of a person to jump over it. But I couldn't show you one picture. This may be accompanied by the issue of social mobility. This health and social problem index must have included social mobility. And in fact, differences in income distribution would not be such a problem if social mobility would give people who work harder, practice more, learn more and contribute more, the opportunity to come out of this innate lower status with their personal contribution. Social mobility is important in this respect. How to cultivate it is a question of its own. But the same social mobility, which is socially important, is just as clearly linked to the distribution of income, by the greater the differences in income in the country, the less social mobility. Perhaps the more the child's future income depends on his or her parents' income. Why is that, I don't know how to say it yet. One simple explanation is that it is difficult to climb a ladder with sticks very far from each other.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U29	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, thank you for this presentation. I'll come back to that chart with Japan at one end and the United States at the other end. It's nice to see that there's all the Nordic countries in this more equal distribution of income. This is where most people in Estonia are going, and which way we want to move. Glad to see this is the right way. Unfortunately, I am not very familiar with the work of Wilkinson and Pickett personally. But it surprises me that Japan is in such a very good position on this table. Perhaps you can explain in a few words what the mechanisms with which the Japanese system ensures such a more uniform, more equal distribution of income are. Because it's clear that it can't happen by itself. There must be things, such as living arrangements, tax systems, political orientations, etc., with which Japan has reached a position in this table, where there is income distribution and social problems, which seems to be significantly better than even the Nordic countries in the picture.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U31	Thank you. I can't say very precisely about Japan, but it seems that there are more collective relations and fewer market relationships that regulate some aspects of life. It's speculation now, but maybe that way. Plus, of course, he's a more homogeneous society in terms of the composition of his population. For Japan, there are, of course, a little different data on this inequality, but on this picture, he really gets a big eye. But yes, once again, a very specific area, so I don't know how to comment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U32	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Madis Aben! There's a saying that everything is math. That's why I'm asking you about this table on slide 11, increasing average wealth will only improve well-being to a certain extent, and life expectancy at birth is dependent on GDP per capita. In this context, I ask: what should be the GDP per capita in Estonia so that the children now born will live to be 100 years old?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U34	On top of a picture with this colored dots, you can draw a curve with your free hand and then see when it reaches the 100-year line on this vertical axis. Yes, it is clear that in the case of Estonia, economic growth is certainly even more important than it is in the case of Finland or Sweden. There is no doubt about that. That is why perhaps there must also be more of these material incentives in a country like us, with a transition economy than, say, in rich countries, where this growth itself is no longer so important, but more can be taken care of in terms of distribution. I don't know if I answered your question. In numbers, I owe you an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U35	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U36	Thank you. Well, you can also have a little debate on a constructive report. I'm sure it was a very constructive presentation, but with a few logic errors. First of all, this previous drawing. The actual declaration was here that prosperity improves to a certain extent. It can be accepted to a large extent, one hundred percent certainly not, it is also such a slowing line in the figure. But what is given, for example, is certainly a failed link, because the title of this picture itself could be that the standard of living or life can only be raised by economic methods to a certain limit. There are biological and medical boundaries. In this sense, this is not a successful example. But I'm going to ask you about this introductory graph. Shouldn't it be the title, however, that... Have you heard people say that inequality is good for the economy? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Rather, there has been a debate about which methods to reduce inequalities are good.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U37	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U38	Would it be wise to correct the title of the drawing?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U39	Thank you. Yeah, I totally agree that this life expectancy is kind of... Since this can be measured in a clear and transparent way in many countries, it is possible to draw conclusions again on this basis because there is a large number of data. Of course, yes, there is some sort of limit to life, but at the same time, it also sums up the health and social situation. Well, now I've forgotten, which was the second question. [[Jürgen Ligi answers from the floor.]] Yes, of course. This is also why there is no need to worry that there is too little inequality from an economic point of view. It is clear that these are the compromise methods that we will win in one and perhaps lose in another. The question is how we minimise these losses when we talk about tax policy and progressive taxation. This is perhaps the most understandable example of how economic incentives in business can be removed. I think there are no major problems with this in Estonia, because the economy has developed very well, also through the last crisis. Tax Foundation, an organisation that evaluates the tax policies of the countries, has for many years consistently assessed Estonia for its corporate tax system rather than for the most competitive in the world. So there are probably also opportunities in the Estonian tax system to improve the income distribution situation by making it more progressive, while not giving economic incentives back.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U40	We're running out of questions and answers. I can take the last question. Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U41	Thank you, President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your speech. My question was motivated by a reference to Treffner and Tallinn schools, which were labeled as elite schools. I'm a country boy, and I graduated from Nõo High School, which then belonged to the same category, and I know that inner strength and quality. My question: do I understand correctly your idea that if we cut off the more prominent and longer heads in this line, the line will become more even and better?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U42	It'll probably be evener. Technically better? That's another question. Yeah, it's such a marked example now. If we still find that in order to help with this lower end at the level of families with children, there is a need for financial resources, not only for much else. And one of the aims of the tax system is, however, not just to collect money into the Treasury, but also to level out the imbalance in the distribution of income in the market. And if we want to give more money to the bottom end, that money can still only be taken from that top end. But, of course, it must be taken in such a way that this contribution to economic development at the top does not suffer. As I said, economists are a little cold-blooded and cynical people who think that nothing else but money motivates people. Representatives in some other areas may not quite agree.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U43	Thank you. That concludes the speech and the question-and-answer time. Thank you, Madis Aben! I invite Tiit Tammaru, Professor of Urban and Population Geography, the next remote control, whose presentation is also 20 minutes and the time for questions and answers is exactly the same as 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U44	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good chairman of the sitting! Thank you very much for the opportunity to speak here today on this debate day on inequality. My report is rather from the perspective of a population scientist and a human being. I will focus on the issues of migration and regional development. There has been a great deal of talk about these issues in this Chamber within the framework of the Human Development Reports. The previous Human Development Report focused on migration, but it did not address regional development issues, and the last Human Development Report dealt with Estonia's spatial development very much, but there was no migration. So I'm trying to get these two issues together in today's presentation. And I'm going to be more specific about these things. I'm a little more data-centred and Estonian-centred. It is in the first half of the report that we are looking at these migratory trends. Of course, we have some basic knowledge, such as that people tend to come to Tallinn, but migration patterns are certainly much more diverse. And they are also made more complex by the fact that, in addition to the change of permanent residence, we have a lot of other, temporary movements. I'm gonna stop a little bit on these too. Data is, of course, a major issue in the case of migration. I'm not gonna talk about it in my report, but if you have any questions, we can discuss it further. These units I'm talking about are counties on the one hand and the settlement hierarchy on the other. Maybe we'll look at both horizontal and vertical movements in space. Finally, the effects of migration and links to the issue of regional development. This first slide, on the chart, has the balance of the total migration of Estonian counties per 1000 people. I have shared two periods of time for the last ten years: the first and the second half of the decade. And what we can see from this slide is that indeed, Harjumaa and Tallinn are one of the regions with a positive balance of migration, but there have been changes during this decade and there have been other counties where the balance of migration as a whole, i.e. both internal migration and external migration together, is positive. Perhaps, if we look a little more closely at the counties that have come to the top and bottom of this picture, a picture will be drawn where North and West Estonia have either a positive migration balance or a smaller negative migration balance and South Estonia has a larger exodus area and we have Ida-Viru County at the very end here. Now, if we divide this total migration into two sub-sections, i.e. external migration and internal migration, from this graph we first see that these columns became smaller. Perhaps, in fact, the impact of external migration on the development of the rural population is less pronounced. This is the first message we see from here. But the second and perhaps even more interesting message is that within this ten-year period, the migration revolution has not only taken place in Estonia as a whole, but it has actually reached all Estonian counties. Perhaps the balance of migration, the balance of external migration, is positive. This may seem a little surprising at first glance, but behind this migration balance we have, to a very large extent, the return migration of Estonians, our own people, also from Finland. We know that many people who have gone to Finland have taken this migration as a temporary phenomenon. They have also invested their money in improving their living conditions in Estonia. In many rural areas, families have also renovated their living because one family member works in Finland. In fact, perhaps the small positive impact that has come from Finland's migration has returned to all Estonian counties. However, internal migration has a greater impact on population change than external migration. However, the overall geographical picture remains the same. Perhaps the counties of Northern Estonia and West Estonia are the ones that we have here at the top of the chart. And once again, here at the bottom of the schedule, where the loss of migration is greater, there is quite a lot of southern Estonia. From this graph, we can see that no positive change can be seen. Perhaps in many counties of South Estonia, but also in Ida-Viru County, emigration has become somewhat worse in the last five years. So external migration has had some positive effects, but internal migration has deepened the differences. It relates to population distribution. If we look at how the distribution of the more prosperous and poorer people has changed in the counties, say, if we simply compare groups of occupations such as the higher and lower groups of occupations, these are the main categories of ISCO, the higher groups of occupations are the leaders and the top specialists, then we can see that here too, this distribution difference has deepened over time. The biggest leap took place between the 2000-2011 [population] census, but this difference has continued to deepen over the last ten years. These were changes of a more horizontal nature between counties, but let's also look at the opposite vertical movements in the settlement hierarchy. We have divided Estonia into five hierarchy levels: Tallinn with its hinterland, it is a red area, regional centres with its hinterland, it is a green area, other county centres with their hinterland are blue and then other Estonia is. If we look at the changes that have taken place over the last 30 years, there is a lot of what we expect. Of course, first of all, the people of Estonia are concentrated in the region of Tallinn, in Tallinn first and foremost, but also in the back of Tallinn. But perhaps there are some aspects here that should be looked at more precisely or at least emphasised. First of all, we can see that the most systematic impact of the loss of migration has been on small towns outside urban areas. Their disappearances through internal migration have increased with time. Another area of this kind of loss, which I would emphasise, is the county centers. When we are talking about regional development, it is certainly the county centres that should be the engines of regional development. And the fact that there is still a considerable loss of migration is, from the perspective of regional development planning, one thing that could be more focused on. The regional centres are also coming out here with their huge loss of migration. But this is mainly the impact of the cities of Ida-Virumaa, because if we look at them more precisely, the images of Tartu and Pärnu are not so negative. And the last thing I would like to pay attention to is that if we look at rural areas, these are rural areas outside urban areas, outside county centres and their hindsights, we will see that, in the last ten years, the population in these regions has not actually diminished by internal migration, but rather increased. Perhaps in some ways this internal migration has started to affect us a little polarisingly in the settlement hierarchy. These average levels, especially small towns, are the ones from which the population has left, and Tallinn and, in fact, rural areas have grown a little. Of course, once again, this country is not even, it is a very broad category. As we have seen from these drawings of the county's balance of migration, in South Estonia this effect is smaller, but rural areas outside the urban regions of northern and western Estonia are where we see a positive balance of migration. When we look at migration across people's lives, there is also a very clear pattern: with green there are areas with a positive and red negative balance of migration. The migration of large cities, especially Tallinn and the hinterland, still only feeds, you can say, the migration of young people. It's about 30 years old on this schedule. And the more people progress, the older they get, the more this migration process will turn itself. As a younger family, we can see that Tallinn's hinterland, the hinterland of other regional centres, has clearly become green. Older families, these green spots are growing across Estonia, and already a large part of Estonia is greener than the rest of the world. These rural areas, for example, we talked about earlier. So this migration over the course of life is very important. What can we conclude from these trends in Estonia's migration development, and what thoughts could this lead us to? First of all, as a circle of major problems, it can certainly be marked that human development and regional development tend not to be consistent. In human development, we expect young people to be ambitious, to have an ever-increasing education and greater skills. The inevitable consequence of this is that they get into the city. And we can also say that large cities also choose young people. Of course, it's not the cities themselves, it's the colleges. Indeed, on the one hand, we have universities for free and everyone can go to higher education, but we still select young people at higher education on the basis of their knowledge, talent and potential, i.e. we select more ambitious, more talented and smarter young people, on the other hand, cities also promote these young people by providing them with a good education, etc. This is actually the basic mechanism that gives us the difference in regional development. If we look at the links between people's life cycle, life cycle progress, activities and regional development, we will already have better consistency. As the life cycle progressed, we saw that people slowly begin to emerge from the city, which means that the location of the workplace is no longer a factor in choosing where people live. They begin to think more about their environment, home, children, schools and how to best combine all these different factors. This is the moment when the moment of urban dispersal often occurs. Similarly, people in middle age, when they change jobs, do not do so together with the change of residence. Perhaps it is rather the fact that people are willing to commute, move between work and home. Modern teleworking opportunities have also supported the separation of work and home. The last point that I would like to mention here in relation to this life cycle is what the last human development report has very much talked about, i.e. multiplicity. We see that many citizens have acquired a rural home once again, the corona has deepened this trend, and this means that people live outside cities for a very large time of their lives a year, of course during the summer season. A couple of slides, for example. Pendulum migration has still increased considerably. Perhaps, indeed, this difference between jobs and housing has increased over time. And what is perhaps interesting on this graph is that in fact, this change takes place in several directions, i.e. not only towards the big cities, but also vice versa. For example, if you look at the connections between Tallinn and its pendulum migration, there are really many people who go from elsewhere to work in Tallinn. But the Tallinners themselves do not always find work in Tallinn, but somewhere else. And that doesn't mean they're gonna change their place of residence, but they're gonna be more of a commuter in the same way. Other homes. When we look at this graph or map, we see that the darker the region, the greater the population growth in the summer period compared to winter. You are not seeing these percentages very well [on this slide], but I can tell you that they are even 40% and more in some areas of Estonia. We see that it is precisely the periphery of the country that is where the temporary population is growing particularly significantly. Läänemaa has actually become a summer home in Tallinn. Now, in the light of these processes and very general interpretations, how can we talk about levelling out differences in regional development, if we are setting such an objective for ourselves at all? We can highlight three types of measures that we can basically use in our actions. The lower we go in this list, the more complex these solutions will, of course, become. But these are: firstly, dealing with general inequality, secondly, dealing with regional policy, and thirdly, we are trying to think better about how the space for people in Estonia has developed and how we can also focus regional development a little more fairly on this basis. The previous presentation told us a lot about social and spatial inequalities. There is also a change in the Gini index on this graph, and in the case of spatial inequality, I will show the same graph that we had before, namely the distribution of higher groups of occupations between counties. What do we see on this diagram? First of all, the biggest increase in income inequality occurred in Estonia in the 1990s. We also saw this from the world's graph and from the example of the United States that, in fact, the 1990s were the period in which the increase in inequality was greatest, and since then there have been changes in different directions. The general pattern is that the increase in inequality in incomes will reach space after some time. And there are both ways: if income inequality increases, then after some time the spatial inequality also increases, and vice versa, if income inequality decreases, then in some time the spatial inequality should also decrease. Now we see that, indeed, in the 1990s, income differences grew and ten years later, when these blue columns looked at, the spatial inequality between counties increased. So really ten years later this difference reached space. I will not dwell very much on the more precise explanation of the change in income that has occurred later on. There have been periods of growth and shrinking. But this message is definitely that he's come down a little bit. We can see that in recent years too, the Gini index has come down. So a certain reduction has occurred lately, at least, but we do not see a similar reduction in spatial inequality. Perhaps spatial inequality has persisted at a higher level than income inequality. This means that it certainly has had a certain positive effect that the overall inequality has diminished, but it is not enough to reduce regional inequality. So we can see what else we can use. These are regional policy measures. Regional policy in its classical sense focuses on jobs. And this assumption is that if we stimulate the creation of jobs through various measures, it will also lead to the movement of people to where the jobs are. And in this toolbox, we have several more specific sets of measures, the first of which I would stress the importance of the message. [It is a matter of] what kind of message we formulate at all. There is accessibility of infrastructure, from various infrastructure elements such as roads, internet, of course energy, etc. Possibilities relocation, public sector jobs, regional higher education institutions. As we have seen, it is precisely the higher education institutions that bring young people from other parts of Estonia to Tallinn and Tartu. The more we offer educational opportunities even closer to people after upper secondary school, the smaller the exodus of young people will be. If that's what we want, it's a development. Of course, Estonia has also created many of these regional universities. Finally, of course, salaries and taxes. We can pay different wages in the public sector for the same work if we want to use this measure. We can also always play with taxes. These are the tools that are in the hands of this man, the political power that wants to level out differences. But we can look the other way. Indeed, jobs are important, but from this overview of the migration processes, we have seen that jobs do not really affect the location of people, perhaps as much as we sometimes and often think. In fact, the opposite is true: where there are people, there are jobs, and if there are no people, there are no jobs. We're shutting down schools because there are no more children and no more families. So this space-based approach should rather think about what people do in the room at all, and maybe people will be followed by jobs. [[Sounds like it's getting out of time.]] Did that beep mean anything?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U45	Yeah, that beep means we're out of time. I can give you three more minutes, but no more.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U46	Yeah, I do have the last substantive slide.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U47	Let's make it three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U48	Thank you. Perhaps, in fact, we would rather focus on where people are, and people will also be followed by jobs. Often in the case of Tallinn, if we are talking about regional development at all, we treat Tallinn as one of those people and resources. But we can also think about it the other way around, that Tallinn is in some ways a gateway to opportunities. If it is appropriate for workplaces to be in Tallinn, but it is appropriate for people to be elsewhere, how can we take this success to other areas of Estonia through all the pendulum migration, multiplicity and whatever other measures? These topics, such as the life cycle, pendulum migration and multiplicity, all provide an opportunity to actually rethink how our space is organized. And finally, if we really do have that will, we can ask whether the fact that people's income tax comes where they live is the fairest way, or whether we really should think more about how people move in a room, where their first and other homes are, and whether they themselves could, for example, choose a little where to redirect their taxes, based on where they actually live their lives in Estonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U49	Thank you very much. Now we can go to questions and answers. And the questions are a lot already. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U50	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this interesting presentation. But I would ask for a little bit of expansion of this latter side, however, perhaps as a slightly provocative question. It doesn't seem like a very good plan to me that all the jobs are in Tallinn, and the rest of the counties are like passageways and sleeping rooms to go back to for the weekend. Indeed, we have already seen this in several county centres, and I think it is a sign of peripheralization that they no longer function as an independent economic entity. When the summer weather ends, the streets are empty and the cafes go to jail. That doesn't look like a perfect picture. But perhaps you could give some examples of a successful regional policy in the Nordic countries, where these processes [have taken place]. Well, the process of urbanization has been basically universal. How and what has been implemented and what results been achieved in the context?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U51	Thank you very much. Maybe I was in a bit of a hurry at the end. Sorry for the ambiguity. I did not want to say that one measure should come at the expense of another measure. I rather wanted to say that these are all the different measures that can be used either individually or in a set. So this is more of the palette we have to use. This is, of course, a political decision which is more appropriate and which is not appropriate. Perhaps I did not want to say in any way that the issue of jobs is not important, but I wanted to say that perhaps we sometimes overemphasise it in the sense that people do not often live where there are jobs, many people do not actually work, etc. We should expand this thought horizon a little in addition to the jobs. That was the main message. As we know, yes, indeed, these measures have not had any too much effect anywhere. That's why I was trying to expand this horizon. There have been hopes for different things, such as that the growth of major cities is slowing down, the internet, the digital revolution, we do not have to be present at work, jobs can be more mobile. In fact, all these changes have strengthened the position of large cities. Tallinn is growing, Helsinki is growing and Stockholm is growing. True, there is also a very large component of external migration. Let us not forget, however, that even in the case of Tallinn, external migration has a greater role to play today in the growth of the population than in the case of internal migration. So, yes, the process of metropolitanisation is very difficult to reverse. That's why I brought up those other thoughts. However, in the Nordic countries, of course, these are the same issues as tax treatment, as is the case with regional universities, right, etc. We can always debate whether it is a success, that we have somewhere far away, in Joensuu, for example, a university and, in fact, both students and faculty may be commuting and not being there all this time, but these are the measures that we can implement. They have their own success. Like every coin has another side, indeed, we do not have people there all the time on the spot and so on. But if we take the positive side now, it's really right that, for example, if you have a summer home somewhere else, then in winter, the street is empty. But the fact that people are going out of Tallinn means that we still have a certain demand for infrastructure investments. These people want to get some services on the spot, they want the road to be okay, they have Internet access, and so on. In fact, it still gives a positive boost to the region, even if these people are not always there. So there are still positive moments. And why I developed this subject further is that people often spend some part and a relatively large part of their time outside Tallinn, but this often gives rise to more obligations than benefits. It may not be due, but it must be maintained, patched, waste management and so on. So it is from this point of view that we need to figure out whether we have any positive places to get our fingers behind to give a new impetus to the development of the region.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U52	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U53	Thank you. Dear waitress, We're actually living at a very interesting time, once again, there's this feeling that sometimes at least we've gone north and there's this kind of Renaissance somewhere. The news this morning was that a new crèche was opened in my village because the children couldn't fit anymore. It's in Southeast Estonia. And I have one question concerning migration history and education. Is there any study carried out in this context, too, that if we look at internal migration and emigration and people's level of education, what are their choices, for example, people with unfinished basic education, and what choices have people with secondary education or those with higher education made? Has any study at this level been tried to determine how the level of education has affected migration decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U54	Unfortunately, I cannot say the data of quite recent times, because the entire migration data in Estonia is slowly forming. Thanks to Statistics for helping me compile the data. But it turns out that since we are now going to a registry-based census, and there is still a little too much work to be done with the harmonisation of censuses, that I would dare to say some things on the floor of this hall. But we can rely on other countries and Estonia's data between the two previous censuses, that is, between 2000 and 2011. And from there we can clearly see that higher education is more related to being in the city and lower education being at a lower level in the land and settlement hierarchy. So there's still a clear connection here, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U55	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U56	Thanks! I would like to begin by thanking you for a very good presentation. I had a number of other questions at first, but during the presentation I received answers to these questions and new questions arose. But I'd ask you this. I think the last year and a half is a very interesting time for migration researchers and migrants, because the world has changed. This coronal madness has turned our lives around. A year ago, in this Riigikogu speech chair, I said that we have a rooster in our village in the mornings because all farms or rural areas are full, people come to the country, they live there not only in the summer, they buy firewood for the winter, and they already spend their winter there. And people have learned to work farther in recent years. Perhaps my question is this: How do you feel about this madness, this epidemic that has brought more people to the country, we have not left behind in a good way? We should now think more about how to attach these people to the countryside a little, offering them opportunities to work there, because we know that living is the best place in the country, not in the city.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U57	Yeah, exactly. I will begin by answering the final part of this question. The reason why there is a change over life is that a small apartment in the city is not an ideal place for a person to live. And that is why more and more compromises are being sought over the course of life. This is not such a big problem for young people, but the older they get, the more they are. Of course, the city may try to create a better living environment, which is definitely one thing, right, but the city is compact and expensive as well, so it's all more complicated. I cannot answer this question as to whether or not we have been able to make good use of the corona crisis in this sense. Some data, which I also supported, I couldn't tell you exactly what I supported, but I showed you maps of mobile positioning data, would actually give us the most accurate picture of what this corona has done. But unfortunately, from mobile operators, we no longer receive data in the form we used to, i.e. we do not know what has actually happened in the last two years. However, we can clearly see that people have started putting more money in their former homes, spending more time there. And it's pretty certain that some of these people are gonna decide at some point that maybe this is gonna be my first home. I think that if we look at regional development in this sense, it has still had a positive impact. Could it be bigger? I don't know about that, but here maybe it would help if we thought about whether we could still contribute with infrastructure or other things, because teleworking still often stays behind the Internet. We have still not been able to guarantee high-quality internet access across Estonia. We cannot make a high-quality internet connection with Tallinn from Muhu County; we still have some things to do. This is one small example. There are certainly places where the country can improve the situation, so that this trend will go that way if we want it to.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U58	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, My question is about pendulum migration. Remote work is a good opportunity, but a lot of jobs still require physical presence and quite a lot of people commute. I have even thought: my country is Järvamaa and it will take an hour to travel to Harjumaa, an hour ago, so every day two hours of family time, it will probably have some effect. My question is this: have you calculated, or have the effects of this pendulum migration been calculated anywhere? How does this affect social relations? The community will probably miss this amount of time, there will be no time to contribute to local entrepreneurship, and in the end people will get tired of driving. So are they still leaving, or what are the effects of the pendulum migration? We are talking about making the Tallinn and Pärnu highway four lines, because it is very nice to go to work in Tallinn, but it seems to me that this is not the best solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U60	Thank you. That's a very good question. But it's awfully hard to answer because as we get to the effects, it's very easy to start talking about different effects, and unfortunately these different effects are always in different directions. Let's start with some very basic things, like birth rates. People who live in the city and those who live somewhere in the countryside have a large difference in birth rates. It's been studied a lot, and that fact is clear. The more people live narrowly together in the city, the lower the number of births. The more people live in a bit more spacious and spacious conditions, the higher the birth rate. So the effect on the birth rate is positive. It's hard to say about community relations. On this subject, yes, if we look at the perspective of the family, what children do and what both parents do, then there are different effects in community terms. I dare not say that this is only lost time; it may also be precisely that there is an increase in the coherence of local communities through children. So here, too, the effects are mutual. Definitely the most negative impact is, in other words, the total environmental impact of urban sprawl due to transport. That's a problem anyway. And here's more of a point than how much we really drive alone in a car long distances, how much we share car rides, or whether we can take any rides on public transport. These are the things that all of us are about to enter this equation when we talk about the effects. And how many times do we have to walk? Indeed, the corona age also shows that not all people want to return to the office five days a week. So in short, yes, these effects are well multi-directional.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U61	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U62	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Professor Oamaru! Seven years ago, Jacob Morgan wrote "The Future of Work." He called it, in other words, "the evolution of the workers." More specifically, the book was about how mentality changes. COVID's pandemic, however, gave its projections full acceleration. Today, Kalvi Tõvi has already somewhat touched on this issue. And Morgan says, for example, that people don't work at this time of day anymore, but at this time of day, if it's okay with them, right, 24/7. They don't work in the company's office, they work anywhere instead. They no longer use the company's tools, no matter whose people rent, they borrow. And cooperation technology is increasingly in use. I therefore ask how this development should affect migration and regional policy in Estonia. You have briefly talked about how transport affects etc. Secondly, does the governance of processes at national level have to be ahead of technological progress, or will it still follow it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U63	Thank you very much. How do you begin to answer that question? Indeed, the location of the work is no longer very important for many jobs. We certainly don't have to be in our workplace to work. However, when we look at companies and how they make their placement decisions, we see that many IT companies also tend to concentrate in the city. Maybe these people aren't all in the office, but companies tend to focus on the city. When we look at Tallinn and its development, we see that the city centre is actually growing in terms of jobs. We are building more and more tall buildings where we bring together people to work, both in the private sector and in the public sector. Perhaps employers' choices relate to cities in terms of their central spatial location and, in fact, to the heart of the city. So a person's own job and the job that the employer chooses as the best location are not always two completely overlapping things. Probably the reason why these jobs from an entrepreneur's point of view or from an employer's point of view also in the public sector, right, we have, for example, a super ministry of concentration, there really are a number of arguments behind them. I'm sure the social interaction won't go away. There are some things we still want to do together, and this positive effect technology hasn't completely taken away. Plus the connections, such as Tallinn with its external connections and internal connections, still bring together the employer in the selection of their space in Tallinn and the city centre. But, yes, people's own place of work may not be in the same place as their employer. How exactly do these things and balance points change? It's hard to say. I myself believe that, yes, it is that, if people do not live at the workplace, it actually gives other regions, i.e. outside Tallinn, some development opportunities. If a country wants to reduce regional disparities, it can participate in this process, think about infrastructure, think about taxes, and so on, and in any way reduce regional imbalances.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U64	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U65	Good manager! First of all, a small comment for Mr Padari: I like the countryside and the city. But I have many questions. The first question is: how do these four maps of life relate to the four maps that were in the Human Development Report, which included the location of teachers, policemen and rescuers? That's one. The second is about the hierarchy of Estonian settlement. Let me get this straight. E-areas are the ones where the inequality is the least, and in those places that are marked with dark red, it's the biggest. Or have I misunderstood? And the third question. Now, recently, we passed a law that had to do with this Virumaa robber, a court settlement, so no more of those phone positions, I understand. I think it's gonna hit you big. Or how do you compensate for this in order to carry on with similar studies?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U66	Can I ask you a little bit more about the question? I didn't quite understand, but I'm trying to start answering. Phone positioning data has, yes, been a good thing for one working group that has actually expanded the world's mobility research. These data are currently not available, so this effect is indeed negative. Why did this use of cell phone data bring such a big breakthrough? Indeed, we were able to come to a better understanding of how people actually use space. If we want to plan the space somehow and we don't know how people use the space, then the mismatches are also easy to develop. In this sense, it is certainly, I think, also necessary from a planning perspective up to some specific tasks. The Rescue Board, for example, is very thirsty for these data. If we still want to know where people are at risk and what should be done, it is actually the only data source where we can get quick, adequate information about the location of people. The chart of the settlement hierarchy did not really show anything about substantive inequality. It's just the colors showed what these units are, which we're gonna talk about later. The red was the region of Tallinn and the green were the regional centres. They're just to show you what these units are later on I have these in the analysis that actually appear on the map. The first question was one I can't answer. These maps of my life, I think you're thinking about this new, last human development report that had police officers... Look, I didn't do the report, and that's why I don't really know. Perhaps you can comment on exactly what you meant by police and public sector personnel cards, or how...? Yeah, well, I don't know how to answer that right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U67	Let's go to the next question. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U68	Thank you very much. And thank you to the waitress! Honourable Professor! I actually have a question that we have already discussed and discussed to some extent here, too, that is pendulum migration, teleworking and related. It seems to me that we have perhaps somewhat overstated certain regional concessions, tax differences, etc., and a little underestimated, however, the question of a good road network, the solution of this issue, the existence of a good and fast communication network. How do you feel about such good infrastructure solutions, whether we could get positive feedback, self-regulation, self-regulation, which would actually help us reduce this distinction regionally, rather than so different taxes or incentives?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U69	Thank you very much. This is both essentially and politically a little bit, isn't it, debating exactly what the effects are, because we do not have exactly this kind of experiment situation, so we can say exactly what was the effect of one measure. But I fully agree that infrastructure investments have been extremely important. If we look at Estonia's general spatial arrangements, I am also a little sad about the migration map of this settlement hierarchy, because the county centres tend to fall off this picture somehow. If we are thinking about Estonia's spatial arrangements, it is central to the county centres. This means that the package of such regional policy measures would still work better through the county centres. This debate about county centres often goes to the wrong place. Whether this 15 is right or wrong, it's like a whole other debate. What is important is that basically, we still have a central area in the county centres. It also means infrastructure, road network, etc., right? Similarly, if we can simply move from the remote corners of the county to the county centres, not all of us need to come to Tallinn or Tartu in Southern Estonia, then this infrastructure, by strengthening the nodes of their county centres, would certainly be a very important measure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U70	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U71	Thank you, dear waitress, for a very interesting presentation. Kalvi Tough here rejoiced that people had come to the country during the crisis. As far as I've read, this has happened repeatedly in the history of mankind, that if there's a critical moment, there's going to be a land. But, unfortunately, it is a temporary phenomenon, and just as striped people tend to forget what this crisis gave society and people, so the trend of urbanisation continues. However, I would like to come back to what we can do in practice and ask if there are any good examples. Estonia has even done a great job. The last Estonian Human Development Report focused on spatial developments, where four simplified scenarios were finally highlighted, "Estonia 2050." But as always the human development reports tend to happen, we are reminding here today, but for the rest of the year, we are living again in the knowledge that there was a fat book. Are there any examples that there has actually been a social agreement, a scenario, and a systematic move towards it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U72	Thank you very much. What you have emphasised is that the effects of crises are often similar and short-term is absolutely right. This first very clear observation was made during the oil crisis in the 1970s when the world economy was experiencing a major shock. It also introduced the term "reverse urbanization," then it started to flow out of the cities, but for a while this trend turned. Maybe I'll say a few more words about that change in trend. This trend changed a little at the time, too, because cities began to be caught up in how it had a negative impact on the development of cities. Perhaps some policy measures were directed to strengthen the position of cities. It was natural, on the one hand, for cities to grow, but it was also supported by certain policy measures. So it was like a combination of two factors. This means that perhaps we sometimes overestimate politics, but sometimes we underestimate it. It could be either way. When I said in the introduction, from what point of view I make [conclusions], it is more of a perspective of a population scientist. And when we look from the perspective of a population scientist at this very question, the age composition of the population has changed considerably since then. We have fewer young people because the birth rate is lower, and there are more people in other age groups. As we have seen from migration over the course of life, in fact, it is young people whose migration feeds cities, plus external migration, also mainly in the form of young people, right? Perhaps the demographic reference system has changed and, in fact, it supports a small exit from cities and the corona crisis amplified this demographic process. Will it remain sustainable? Here we still come to the same questions that the previous questioner asked nicely. All these infrastructure, environmental and tax issues, all those same issues. If we want to make it more sustainable, we need to implement some kind of policy action. And infrastructure is important, including internet access, roads, links to county centres and the strengthening of county centres. Maybe we can figure out something else to make them a little stronger. It's not a bad idea to relocate public sector jobs, but maybe it doesn't work alone. He may be a little lessening the negative effect, but yes, thinking more about county centres is important. Perhaps more local knowledge should still be brought in and thought about what we can do with each single county centre to maximise the effect.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U73	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U74	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for a very interesting presentation. It was interesting to watch here as an ambassador elected from Tallinn. Some of my previous speakers here somehow expressed concern because people have developed other homes for the outskirts of Estonia. I think it's very positive. The more households living in Estonian cities who can afford a summer home, the better. I hope there will be more and more in the future. But could you please clarify the concept of spatial inequality, which you were talking about? What is it more accurately, and how does it affect people?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U75	As I said in the introduction, this time in my presentation, I focused primarily on issues relating to people and the population. And what I specifically showed in my slides was the distribution of senior officials in Estonian counties, i.e. whether it has become more even or whether this gap has grown. And what we saw is that this salmon has grown. Higher groups tend to unite more and more in individual places, in terms of their permanent residence. These are Tallinn and Tartu, Harjumaa and Tartumaa. That was the main message.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U76	We can take the last question, then the time is up. Toomas Järveoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U77	Thank you. I'm from Elva municipality. Are we, like, in front of a tail-jump-jump-jump-jump-jump situation? We have a lot of entrepreneurs, such as Enics and Saint-Gobain, with hundreds of employees. In fact, when we meet with the drivers, it turns out that everyone has a problem: there is no workforce. Doesn't it give other operators such a signal that there's no point in doing their own business, because there's no job there anyway? It's like we're in a very special situation in this sense. Can you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U78	Yeah, well, this labour problem is actually the problem of the whole developed world when you start at a very high or bird-flying level. There's no manpower. And soon there will be no workforce in China either. So this is something that the entrepreneur must unfortunately accept. But I'm glad you gave that example about Elva. We have seen that these small towns, which are further away from the big cities, are also areas of great decline. I didn't really want to discuss it during my presentation, but I've been thinking about it. If we think that there are, for example, small towns, private houses, a beautiful environment, clean air, you have a store there, maybe even a hospital, an ambulance, there are other infrastructure elements, but the population is ageing, then why are these small towns shrinking? Perhaps small towns themselves have a small place to think. I suspect that one reason is that the overall social capacity is still smaller in small towns than in Tallinn, for example. Perhaps here, too, it is possible for the country to create some sort of a slight shift of development, because a small town for such an ageing society is actually not a bad place to live. And if there's an increase in the number of people there, maybe these jobs will somehow come up and even vary, right? Again, from a human point of view, maybe this problem takes a bit of a different perspective. But, yes, unfortunately, the general answer is that everyone has to accept that we no longer have a lot of hands.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U79	Thank you very much. The time for this presentation and the time for questions and answers is over. Thank you, Tiit Tammaru! Let's go to the next report. The presentation is from Professor Emeritus Marju Lauristin, it also lasts for 20 minutes and after the questions and answers are 30 minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U80	President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I thank you for this opportunity to present here today, perhaps in a somewhat different context or role. Namely, I represent not only university or university people, social scientists, but I also represent such a great non-profit organisation called the Estonian Education Forum. It is a NGO network that has been operating for 25 years, combining educational people, teachers and school leaders on the one hand, parents on the other, and learners on the other, we have both student associations and student associations there. Our actions have been that we have helped to create all the education strategies we have already had, including what was on this table. I'm very happy. The Education Forum was one of the parties from which experts came, and I myself led a vision group, namely that which dealt with the links between education, well-being and cohesion. So in this sense, I have a good feeling that our work came before you, and I will be able to comment a little on how these principles work right after that. Social scientists, as we know, cannot experiment with society; they are carried out by politicians. But social scientists can find out what's going on with society. Such opportunities for experimentation rarely occur when, indeed, the whole society is in some new situation and we can see what is about to happen. However, the corona crisis can be viewed by a scientist as an experimental situation. The lessons of this crisis are not only practical, but they are also cognitive, so we will learn more about the effects that forces work in society, so that society can cope with such crises. Education is undoubtedly a very sensitive system. First, he involves all people: everyone has attended school, everyone or many have children at school now, or they have children who go to school, they are taught at school, etc. The situation of the education system, the whole educational community, of course, in this crisis, could be said, in the the therapist of the crisis. When it is said that there is a perfect storm, education really hit a perfect storm with the same corona crisis. We all know what happened. We can say that this crisis has put education as a whole, and precisely the strategic paradigm of education, which we had just developed, to the test of this change in education. When we planned a change in education after 15 years, the corona crisis happened that many things had to be done overnight that could gradually develop over 15 years. So what happened? It took place overnight, what we call the emergence of individual study paths. When children had to be at home, their participation in education was very individualised. The family played a major role, the home played a major role, okay, much bigger than usual. How a child or a learner could manage himself or herself played a major role in planning his or her time. That's what we call a self-control student. The central question of the whole educational strategy is how to achieve as best as possible that in Estonia a self-leading learner who is able to develop and move on an individual learning path dominates. But now suddenly everyone was forced to do it. We can look backwards at what this starting position shows, how much we already have the same self - controlling learning ability and how schools and homes are ready for it. Secondly, teachers, parents and everyone in the whole world were forced to adapt to new educational tools; they switched to digital tools, the Internet, video lessons, etc. It was once again a process that should have been prepared for a long, long time, methodically, but there was no time for that. So it turned out very much how much our schools were able to do, and each school individually was able to do, in so far as, as they say, our education system remains or adapts rapidly, and since this kind of centralisation that we have is helping to adapt more quickly to the situation. Of course, our e-state was put to the test because if everyone had to start using e-instruments, whether or not they had done it before, it was very soon to see how our e-state really guarantees everyone an opportunity to participate equally in this situation. When it is said that the corona crisis, especially in education, amplified existing inequalities, what inequality is it that it amplified? Did he amplify the so-called economic inequality or any other aspects of inequality? It is therefore very important to look at regional differences, how they relate to socio-economic backgrounds, etc. Unfortunately, we don't have any research yet. I mean, what Professor Tammaru was talking about here just before, regional processes, migration, and so on, how all of this relates to the adaptability and ability to cope during the corona crisis, we currently do not have a systematic overview. But now this study that I want to show you, which the Education Forum organised at the end of the first wave, it was in May 2020 and at the end of the second wave, in May 2021, still gives us some insight. It is not a statistical study, it is a pilot study, a qualitative study. It took place over the Internet, it was a Facebook survey, which means that everyone answered on their own free will. So the figures I can't tell you in this way are that ah, we now have so many percentages of them and so many of them. I can show you the options, I can show you certain types, certain trends. It also turns out that, since we were dealing with a qualitative study, people could describe in their own words how they managed, what they did, what happened in their family or what happened at school, we can get a certain insight here to answer the questions that were discussed earlier. The effect of the same place of residence and the importance of having another home are Now for these studies. So many respondents that when there was the first wave, society was, of course, in a state of excitement and we collected answers within a week. The first time we received almost 2,000 responses in a week, because people were so excited about this situation. As can be seen here, we received answers from 686 learners, 515 parents and 338 teachers. The following year, when things had become more or less customary, this response activity, of course, was not that high, but still we received almost 500 responses in a week. Since it is qualitative, because people answered with their own words, I believe that this material is very, very exciting of itself. To the Cultural Commission, I can tell you right now, we sent the full text yesterday. So the members of the Committee on Culture got the full text, which also shows all these answers, quotations, etc. If you want to read this study in the political groups, ask your member of the Committee on Culture. In his mailbox it came and let him share it with you because it's public. It's a social event, it's public and you can use it and watch it. What was different? We had the first question, which was different in 2021 than in 2020. Of course, it was clear that our entire education system is adaptable very quickly. It was also thanks to the fact that the schools themselves were working, they had quite a lot of freedom, children, parents, and also teachers confirmed that there was more clarity, that the teaching was better organised. Of course, digital experiences were greater for all, teachers were calmer and more understanding. It was also very important that, when it was complained last year that there was a great deal of confusion because there were no agreements in school, in each subject, for example, there were different teaching environments, in each subject there were different rules, then during that year the schools had learned to agree within the school, some kind of common understanding was created, and it was clearly passed on to the parents as well. So it was like this whole system was organized at school level. It was also acutely acute last year, and I would say that the tragic issue of children with special educational needs is still a tragic one. Indeed, this whole situation did not suit them, and they were thrown, just like everyone else, into home learning. Now we know that this year it was still possible for them to study at school, there were individual consultations also for children who do not have special needs, but who simply had problems, etc. It was very much appreciated that it was like more individualised treatment. But what was worse? Of course, this year there was a clear indication of general fatigue and a decline in motivation. Well, that was the way it was in society. It was becoming more and more difficult to generate interest, no enthusiasm, etc. This came out very clearly the last time, and the impact of this whole situation on the physical and mental health of learners, parents, and teachers became even more pronounced. I would very much like to stress, Mr Riigikogu, the problem of teachers' health. It came out clearly both last time and this year what the teachers specifically wrote: back, eyes, psychiatry, stress, etc. It seems to me that it would also be very right to look at it from the point of view that teachers' health prevention, rehabilitation and all these problems should be resolved in such a way that it does not depend on the fact that there is a wealthy school somewhere, right, and wealthy parents, but there is a less prosperous school somewhere and there is less. In my opinion, teachers' health is also a topic for teachers' quality of work, it is a topic for relationships at school, etc., so teacher's health should be focused on. What came out is also very important. We're usually talking about the teacher getting old, you know, we have old teachers, of course they're sick, right, old teachers, they don't know how to use computers, they're stressed, and so on. Our data does not show this, but shows that the young teachers were in more trouble. Young teachers were more stressed, apparently more difficult to adapt to, and have no such expectations. Also in terms of health, for example, they were more disturbed by immobility, and all this, one might say, self-mobilisation was less skilled. So I can't say it's an old teacher's problem. This is a very large number of young teachers' problem also, this health problem, especially mental health problem. Of course, eyes. I mean, if we force people to work in front of the screen, in many countries, for example, teachers and teachers have even some totally formal eyeglass preferences that we do not have. All these are small things, but together they give a very, very big effect. It's the same time on the screen that matters. What both parents and teachers are still waiting for and demanding is that it be studied and science-based rules are created for screen work, video work for health protection. How many hours a day, in what way, what else? Besides, there's a very big difference between whether it's happening on a smartphone when we think about the eyes, or if it's still happening on a big screen. So parents and teachers, however, expect some more general set of rules on occupational hygiene and health protection in a situation where so much screen work is forced. Of course, a lot of concern was that the information that came from above was constantly insane, but I'm not going to repeat it here, you know it better than I do. It was general. That's what they say today, tomorrow they say the other way around, right? It's very disturbing for a school because the school can't reschedule in 24 hours. You should have specific rules about how long it takes for you to decide some things, etc. Much has been said about the fact that there was a general absorption of digital dependence, a reduction in social skills, etc. I'm sure they were confirmed, but not by everyone. I will now come closer to the specific differences. Here's a picture. There was talk of red and green for the last waitress. I'll explain a little bit. This is important because it gives the most general overview of what actually happened. On the basis of the responses of both students, teachers and parents, we did a cluster analysis of typology for dealing with crisis situations. There we took into account, on the one hand, the extent to which the learner [in his/her opinion] was able, the child's parents thought that he/she was capable and the ability of his/her students to self-directive learning. There were three aspects: capable of setting and fulfilling meaningful goals for his learning activities, able to control or plan his time and use it, and able to evaluate for himself the fulfilment of his goals. Those three questions were here. The second thing we considered here was what we called an emotional corona experience, or emotional distance learning experience. We had a whole series of statements there, or they were all free to talk, we did an analysis, we brought up standard claims, we got six categories that we looked at by quoting them from the most positive to the most negative. The most positive thing was that I enjoyed this situation because I was able to create freely, etc., the most negative thing was that I had to go crazy, right, and the other things were still there in between. Six of these categories in particular. It's an emotional experience, an experience of coping. Then we also looked at what relationships were like, how much cooperation was there in the cooperation between teachers and parents, as there was cooperation, cooperation and trust between teachers themselves. Such a dimension of trust and relationships, a dimension of support. When we put them together, there were different traits, we did a cluster analysis. In general, we used the four cluster solutions, which were the most substantial. The first cluster is the A-Claster, which here is green. Here are children, teachers, as well as parents, who were dominated by a feeling of well - being, even joy and pleasure. Freedom was felt, there was a greater chance of doing things the way I wanted to, and there was also good cooperation. It is very important, by the way, I very much stress that in this cluster, when we talked about a student who said they had a good job, they did well, and so on, when we talked about parents or teachers, the problem or topic of family relations came up very significantly. Whether students coped better or worse, whether there was a better or a worse atmosphere at school, whether teachers and parents got along better, it was clearly related to the family relationship. I'm coming to Professor Tammaru's report now. We had long answers. When the parent described that we had already agreed in the family, we went to a country home, another home, taught distance so that we went to nature with our children, went out, went to sports, we had an appointment, who did what, etc., it was a very clear and very positive factor. The opposite situation was where the parent said he had to work, he had no time, there was no room in the apartment, everyone had to work, everyone was interrupting each other, everyone was nervous, relationships got worse, eventually he moved away to his parents, he couldn't handle his husband at home, and so on. I mean, it was a total conflict. This was accompanied by poor children, no adjustment, and stress passed on to school. So this topic of family relations, family allowances, housing, the possibility of using space more coolly, etc., proved to be extremely important. Another extremely important topic was, of course, the interaction between teachers. Teacher-parent communication and teacher-to-teacher communication. It turned out what we don't want to talk about, that we still don't have a good relationship between parents or between home and school. It turned out very strongly to be such a misconception, a mistrust. The teachers blamed the parents, the parents blamed the teachers. My parents said that there was no information on how all this was going to happen. Moreover, it is very important and it came out very clearly that our parents are not prepared for the role of the parent. There is a lack of skills and knowledge for this complex situation, including psychological skills. Besides, of course, the subject of digital skills. When home education takes place, the parent must instruct the child who, for example, has to work in seven different environments, but the connections are collapsing, etc., the parent must be a digital specialist and help to cope with it. Some kind of training for parents on the environments that are taking place there etc. was said to be extremely little, rather to be said of their absence. In short, parents' education, parents' preparation for this role became very, very clear. When you look at these options, the green [layer] is where these things are all right: there are good relationships, there is good digital preparation, there is an environment, the father is able to guide the computer, the mother is able to guide another thing, everything is agreed between you and the children will get along. In fact, the age of the children clearly came in here. What has now been decided is absolutely right that primary school or the first degree of primary school is not the place where it can be said that a child is capable of self-management, even though it is developed and must be developed by wise parents and wise schools for the next stage. But what was very interesting to us was the age of 12 or 13 when there is an enormous desire for independence. Among the 13-year-olds, the greatest number were those who were happy. They finally got to do what they wanted. They had more freedom.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U81	Dear Professor, good berries! I see you've got five more slides, but time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U82	Then I'll ask for more. How much more will you give me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U83	Well, as little as possible and as much as necessary. I'm sure colleagues in the Chamber would like to ask you a lot more. But let's try to pull together in three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U84	Okay. In short, now this yellow layer that is here, here are the ones who did a positive job, but with a certain authoritarian moment. The teacher had a big job in organizing the teaching. Well handled because the school organized it more or less, or there was a parent at home who set it all up. It was arranged like this from the top down, but it was positive. Now let's look at this red layer. The question here is that teachers and parents have two red layers. Children don't have this dark red layer because these kids probably didn't answer at all, they just stayed out. In short, this brighter red is what we call a shooting mood. Boredom, tiredness, a going-away mood, couldn't handle it. There, all the meanings I spoke of as positive actually worked negatively. In particular, the whole school community was weak, there was no support, etc. There were many young teachers. The red layer, of course, means those who were filled with anger and protest until I left the teaching profession at all, or parents who said that the family was almost falling apart, or children who were desperate. We see that this intercourse is still such that when there is the most dramatic situation, it shows what is happening in the family. You see, there's stress and more. There's more than a third of it in school, so it turns out from our data, but that number doesn't really mean anything. Among children, all these studies, as others have done, show that the proportion is about that 40-50% can do well and 10-25% depends on the school, there are those who fall out. So that's the picture. Finally, what do they want from the state? I'll show it anyway. The state is expected to have a clear, democratic and long-term education policy. There is a expectation of fair pay for teachers, not only for wage increases, but also for remuneration for what is currently excluded: all this instruction, the preparation of video hours, i.e. all the work that is not linked to contact hours. A stable investment is expected in the development of learner-centred education, infrastructure, so that in any place, each school has an infrastructure that allows adequate and high-quality learning. There isn't one right now. An Estonian-language environment is expected for e-education. Googles, Microsofts and others offer Google Translate and everything is very nice, but schools have different ways, licenses are completely different, they are not adapted to Estonian circumstances. Opiqut will be praised, but it will be paid for, which is why everyone is desperate. And that doesn't solve all the problems. In short, e-education similar to e-health is intended to be a national priority with a well-designed and clear investment. Legal guarantees are sought for student mobility between different environments, also in cultural institutions, museums, etc., and for solving data protection problems. When we talk about online learning, data protection problems are about to come in. They are unsolved, but they must be resolved systematically. And, of course, it is desirable that the field of educational problems is not a field of party struggle, but that there really be cooperation here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U85	Okay. Now there are a lot of questions for you. We have half an hour planned for questions. Let's try to be constructive on the one hand and on the other. Peter Ernits is starting.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U86	Good manager! Good waitress, thank you for your interesting presentation. But a few questions. As I understand it, the school buddies have done quite well, but the parents are stressed, angry and on the verge of burnout. And on the other hand, this statement that older teachers, unfortunately very much, have actually done quite well, but the problem with younger ones is that things are crippled with self-mobilization. How do these things come together? On the other hand, you said the parents weren't prepared for their parental role. In fact, we've been talking here before about not being prepared for a life together. You still have to go through school to drive a car, but there's no training to get together or get married.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U87	Thank you. I'm gonna start with all this parenting and school stuff. Actually, it's very right. When you look at the experiences of different schools, schools have gone well, which from the very beginning included parents in the management of the whole process, some schools did, in addition to the board of trustees, even separate parent councils, etc. So it was very important that the school brought along the parents, informed and educated, if necessary. In short, this kind of triangle, the student, the parent, the school, which was often theoretical so far, showed in the current situation that it still has a very, very important role to play. I believe it remains that it will go on because this topic of parents rose very sharply. As far as older teachers are concerned, in the most active cluster we have, in this green, the average age of teachers was the highest. These teachers with a relatively longer career, the average age in this cluster was 54, were the ones who were looking more for new teaching methods, tried the diverse use of digital tools, various contact methods, etc. Experience played a very important role here, namely experience. Younger people had a greater dependence on school, and I am talking about teachers, about the general atmosphere of the school, about the same communication between them, etc. I think they're both important. Indeed, these parents and younger teachers form a community at school. It is very important that we do not underestimate the role of older teachers and, on the other hand, see that younger teachers are more fragile, that they really need to be kept, and that it must be taken into account that the young generation does not have the iron temper of Soviet times, that whatever happens, I do my job. I think it's important too.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U88	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U89	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Professor Emeritus Marju Lauristin! This was a very good overview of the lessons we have learned during the COVID pandemic. You have a very well combined scientist and politician. If you should now point out one or two important steps that must be taken to promote the education system in Estonia, what would they be?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U90	Thank you. These steps are, in fact, within this strategy. But, according to this experience, I would say in this way whether we like it or not, but one of the most decisive things really is the issue of the inequality of schools and the inequality of schools, precisely in this very sense of infrastructure. If, however, in some schools it is not possible for learners or teachers to use a proper internet connection, but it is expected that all of this will work perfectly and create new and more complex opportunities, they say that we have some new learning methods, please use them, then there are schools that just fall out. It's a practical question. Another very important issue is teacher preparation and teacher training. It is absolutely clear that if we are to achieve any new level, we cannot expect training to be carried out by a'market-based method', that one school will order some training and another training, but there should be a system here. We would even be happy to see it by "we" I mean both the people of the Education Forum and the academic family, so that we come back to this so-called teachers' in-service training system. Teachers would then receive systematic refresher training throughout the year, with appropriate packages, curricula. The need for further teacher training is enormous, not only in terms of technology, but also in terms of psychology and all that. Even if, for example, climate issues, new issues that come, data protection issues in a word, teachers would need systematic further training at all times. It's a number one even, I'd say, and a number two is a technical infrastructure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U91	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U92	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much, Professor Lauristin, for this review of the Korona lessons. I'm coming back to the inequality component. You have highlighted different dimensions: social, digital, regional, age. But there isn't one component here that probably characterises our education system. It's a language, a linguistic component, and it's that our school is segregated. Obviously, the sense says that these processes may be different, but they may not be different, depending on the school's language of instruction. Has something like this come out of your survey, or do you have an understanding of how this corona period has affected the education system in Estonia with another language of instruction?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U93	Thank you. There were no answers in Russian in this particular pilot [study]. We had this interview in Estonian, the students of Russian schools could of course answer, the survey itself was not like that. But in this regard, we have also been discussing and everything else in the Education Forum. We have a certain picture of the difference. Here are some things that should be considered. I am not going to talk about studying the Estonian language now; this is a completely different subject, but the role of school culture, relations between teachers, relations between teachers and parents, relations between pupils and parents came out very clearly here. School culture is quite different in Estonian school than in Russian school or much different from it. First of all, there is more of this yellow cluster in Russian school or Russian school, the one with the so-called authoritarian, top-down organization first. This so-called bottom-up arrangement, its own freedom, is more appreciated at Estonian school. That's one thing. Secondly, there is more of this in Russian school, I would say, the other way around, I mean, this is how to say, collegiality in a certain sense. It's like bigger than the Estonian school. This is once again about the fact that a teacher in Estonian school may struggle out on his own, right, he may not always need so much support, but mutual support in Russian school is very important. As far as this digital side is concerned, here is the fact that the same older generation of teachers in Russian school is less digital than in Estonian school. When it comes to continuing teacher training and so on, this whole issue needs to be particularly emphasised to teachers in Russian-speaking schools. I think the general style of communication is very different. So when we talk about it, as has been said, that we have to reach a single Estonian school, then under a single Estonian school we usually start talking about language learning, but it is actually very important to have a school culture, that it is still the same school culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U94	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U95	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Professor, thank you for your presentation. My question comes about your eighth slide, which has already prompted my colleague Peter Ernitsa to ask. Evidently, though, it is no surprise that parents have a role in education at all. In fact, this crisis must have amplified all these expectations. It is clear from this that if parents fail, in the future we may have negative feedback, problems with children, not to mention teachers. We discussed the education strategy recently, just a few days ago. Regrettably, no attention had been paid to the parents there. My question: what would you recommend to the Minister for Education and the Ministry of Education that they still deal with something that deserves very much attention?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U96	This is now a subject that could be viewed in a slightly different way. The general logic of the functioning of education in Estonia is currently very school-based. It has its own good and faults. On the one hand, it's good. As you can see here, if they throw everything in the water at once, everyone swims as hard as they can to get to the shore. All that concerns the community is not what the state can regulate. The state can support it, but it is still a matter of the school community. Very clearly, this crisis lesson also showed that what is said to be a community or community school is very, very important. This means the links between parents, teachers and schools, but also more broadly the links between this school and the wider community. Here I come again to Professor Tammaru's presentation, referring to the sad truth that the inequality in schools is reflected in the same regional and community inequality. In a community that has run out of higher education and active people, the burden on the school is getting very high because the school is becoming a development engine for the whole community. On the other hand, it might grab the parents. These are the processes that should be explored in complete isolation, because it is a community-level problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U97	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U98	But the issue of the state is that the state must evaluate, respect, amplify and value the community.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U99	Okay. But now Mikhail Lotman. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U100	Thank you. Thank you, Marju, for your excellent presentation, as usual, which stimulated all sorts of thoughts! I'll tell you something you might comment on later. Firstly, on this planned economy. We made a 15-year plan that, as it turned out in the first year, doesn't apply. This is not only the case with the development of this education, but all our 15-year-old plans are as they are. But there are positive things in every crisis. When the economic people said that we must not miss this crisis, the same is true of education. There were a lot of new opportunities. Our e-governance, clarity, does not work best, including education platforms. They should be more even on the one hand, as you said, but on the other hand, more variable and... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U101	One minute!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U102	I'm sorry! I will tell each Presidency that I am a person of special need.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U103	I understand, but unfortunately, the rules are the same for all of us. Let's try to formulate a question, then we can answer the berries.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U104	I'll be really quick. Especially when we talk about kids with special needs, they don't like this flat screen. Here you could think about the virtual reality that is currently being used in games. I think it would be a great learning tool.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U105	Thank you. But I didn't quite understand the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U106	Well, maybe it was a little bit of an opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U107	Thank you for your opinion. Surely these things need to be discussed further, because things are going to get a lot more interesting, deeper than we are going to get into them. It's really just a pilot.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U108	Yes, thank you! Of course, it can be said to Mr Lotman that I do not see the wish of the Isamaa Group to speak for the negotiations yet. In this sense, if Mr Lotman wishes to speak on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland, he will be able to share his thoughts with us for eight more minutes. Now it's Imre Sooääre's turn.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U109	Thank you, good manager. Thank you, Marju, for this meaningful presentation! I would like to continue on the subject already started with Madis Aben, as it also concerns education. In fact, inequality in the wage context can be both cognitive and statistical. Often, a person does not feel that Excel's tables show statistical inequality. Let me give you the same example that I do not agree with Madis Aben, that we have such a high level of awareness that people know exactly how much the employer's cost is, what the salary is, what the net salary is and what the gross wage is. Most people do not know that if they receive EUR 2 000, they actually have a gross salary of 2,500, the employer has an additional cost of more than EUR 1 000. When we talk about the salary of educators, we are always talking about gross wages, that is the wage paid by the state. But when we talk about the wages of the bricklayer, it is not clear whether we were talking about gross or net. There are a lot of court decisions, there are cases in the Labour Dispute Committees that had agreed on 10 euros, but were not specified and after that the employee is worried about why some of it would be taken away from him. However, would it not be better to have a harmonised system? It would help reduce inequality, we would all be clear how much someone costs and would not have it... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Something was missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U110	This is not directly a matter of education. In the case of education, the issue of pay is very acute, but it is sharp on the other hand. That's what I've already called it, and I'll say it again and again and again and again. Teachers reported that the actual burden on teachers is not currently reflected in the pay system. Teachers also contributed differently during the same crisis, for example. This 'green cluster' was the one who contributed most to the preparation of video lessons, to the formulation of new methods, to individual consultation, etc. This red teacher cluster, the one who was in the so-called "fleeing mood," rather shunned everything and said that the state was guilty and the school didn't do and what I could do, etc. But they got paid just like they did for contact hours. So, in fact, this inequality became even greater between teachers, because the actual work is essentially not taken into account in any way by the current system. The school manager, who is supposed to take this into account, has a nominal chance of "higher pay," but he has very little room for manoeuvre, because if the overall average wage is so intense and already below any criticism, when the school itself starts to redistribute it, or, as we often hear, that we can raise teachers' salaries, that we close some schools, etc., it is not motivating, it is not what shows the teacher that a fair pay system is starting to come from somewhere. So fair pay for teachers is a very, very sharp issue. It's not just that mean.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U111	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we will try to ask the question in a minute, because otherwise we will take away the opportunity of asking someone else's colleague. Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U112	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Professor Emeritus Marju Lauristin, thank you very much for your interesting presentation. Digital learning was a great test for all students, teachers, and parents. According to the Ministry of Education, 2/3 of the students managed to do this, while others admit that digital learning was essentially a lost time. Can you predict how digital learning will affect Estonian young people in the long term? Is it expected that in the future inequality in society will continue to worsen?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U113	Thank you. That's right: one and the other. For example, when a journalist asks the teacher and parent of this red cluster, he hears that everything is doomed, everyone was left behind, disaster, nothing learned. When he asks the yellow or green cluster, even the parent, he hears that in general, the gaps were completely filled. Some say that even much better was done. That's what the Minister said. According to various studies, ours and what the University of Tallinn did, which is in the Official Journal of the State, etc., is that two thirds of these 2/3 were able to cope in the middle, half of these 2/3, or a third did not only well, but enjoyed it and maybe they wanted to stay away. But there's also the last third or quarter who was really in trouble. And what's the problem? Since the first wave had already been, this knowledge existed, yes something was done, such as individual consultations, etc., but still this complete package, which would have prevented the weaker part from completely sinking or stressing, depression, was poorly done. It was also thrown on schools, it was not so much a more general issue. I think here's the thing. The Minister also stressed that he was absolutely entitled to the fact that the sharp subject was a lack of support specialists. There are no psychologists in schools, it is not possible to deal with a child with special needs individually, etc. It's very different from school to school. Here, exactly the same regional inequality is very great. We get a picture of these tragic voices that are perfectly justified. But of ourselves, when we take the whole thing, the general phenomenon is that our school system and our education system showed themselves in the crisis, by the way, from a very strong point of view, still from a very strong point of view. Our e-base is still quite strong and the ability to adapt was also high enough in schools. So this so-called relic, this resilience is very strong for the Estonian education system. But it is this weaker part that has not been given enough separate resources to be pulled out of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U114	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U115	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, My question concerns the difference between smaller and larger schools, or rather smaller and larger classes, from the point of view of this study. When we look at this development plan that we talked about here on Monday, it was generally, in my opinion, a little too superficial and beautifully visionless, regrettably. But in a very euphemistic way, one specific story was that 100 schools still have to be shut down in the third grade of primary school, because there are very few children there. This is, of course, understandable demographic pressure in the same way, but, if you look at it, in a crisis situation, this more individual approach is obviously needed. Does this study reveal anything in the context of how very large, or mammoth classes versus smaller classes have managed?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U116	Thank you for that question. I can say as one author of the vision of this development strategy that the strategy's focus was on the same open educational space, that education is not just a school, and that there is a great deal of individual choices. To pinch or change a school network like this, before this whole system is tuned, we were actively opposed. But in the ministry, as usual, you know it very well: one department works according to one plan, the other according to another plan. The organisation of the so-called network of schools has always been one issue, but this strategy has not been brought together in any way. What do these pilot research data show? It's really a pilot, there's no statistics back here. Pilot data show that small rural schools and private schools were relatively better managed, by the way, and on the other hand also those large city schools that are our flagships. The worst were the so-called large rural schools, the schools where [children] had been brought together, the small [schools] had been shut down and the children had been brought together. Their adaptability and resources are the least. I can't give statistics because statistically this study isn't representative, but it showed a tendency. This is, in fact, a rather disturbing trend, as it shows that this same organization of the school network has actually reduced the strength of the school, the ability to find solutions on the ground and, at the same time, has not provided more resources where children and teachers were brought together. Now the new issue is that the third level of basic school is being shut down in the country. It turns out from our research that the third level of basic school is the most critical, there is the most of the same red cluster. If children are taken away from home and go to a school where teachers have not developed them so far, do not know them, etc., then more negative phenomena may arise for students as well. The view of the academic side is that such a structural change cannot be made apart from the fact that we look at all the effects as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U117	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U118	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I would also ask about the suitability and incompatibility of this distance study. If, for example, in healthcare, there is a great deal of avoiding the emergence of some kind of two-speed systems, how do you see that there really are children, families, teachers for whom it is suitable for digital learning, e-learning, distance learning, less contact feeling? Should it be encouraged to develop an individual learning path that we should have, for example, a field of distance learning in high school, or should we still bring all schools, teachers, families, in order for future education to be partially virtual? If Estonia now goes on from here, do we need to give digital learning more than we do now to everyone or only to those who are more comfortable with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U119	This kind of question sounds something like this when, for example, 150 years ago it was asked whether all children must learn to write or whether it helps some to only read. In general, all children have to write too. After all, services are increasingly going into the digital environment. We're looking at financial services right now. We're talking about how everyone invests, everybody has huge money, everyone has to invest, look here and there. A lot of other services go into the digital environment, right? If we do not teach the young generation in the digital environment through education to be not just a helpless consumer who is being shoved into one or another solution without understanding what it is, if we do not give these skills, this competence in practice, then from ourselves it is not what we should want from general education. General education must certainly include the digital component. But it is clear, on the other hand, what the Korona showed: a total situation like that was that everything is only in the digital environment, there is nothing in school, and home is the only place [of course no one is in favour, it is not what they want. What we are talking about is digital learning, distance learning, for example, when we talk about some schools, it still requires that we go together. This means a lot of this'reverse class methodology': for example, students in the digital environment solve problems and then come together and lively discuss what is a problem for someone. This successful cluster is very clear in favour of combined distance learning, with parents in particular. Some of our parents have written to us long tirates about how the school needs to be modernised, about reaching the 21st century, etc. Home learning as such, home learning as an alternative has been highlighted by a large number of parents. This same coronal experience showed that the alternative to home learning is completely real and should be offered more. The second thing is whether there should be schools. The second solution, which is more in favour, is coursework-based [learning]. For example, somewhere in school, I don't know, in Pärnu, Lihula or Saaremaa, is a brilliant mathematics teacher. This brilliant mathematics teacher could also provide distance learning in mathematics more broadly. On the other hand, there may be another course. So there are different ways. These different options need to be tested, but this combined option is actually strongly recommended by this successful party. But certainly not the one that's the worst. The worst case scenario is the so-called mixed option. It's a so-called hybrid with kids in class, a teacher in class, but not everyone in class, some kids at home and watching class there. It is impossible to give this hour according to a common methodology, and it really is a failure. So if you do, there is a whole course, a subject with a distance learning methodology that includes meetings and discussions, etc., for example, you go to school not for five days, but for two days a week. In fact, this whole individualised strategy requires a much greater role for group work and not a class-by-class movement, but rather a step-by-step movement. So it is possible, for example, to complete one three-year degree in actually two years, in some it could also be four years, but it should be individualized. In short, individualisation requires the possibility of distance learning, but not an obligation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U120	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U121	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, While talking about the issue of the government's plan to cut down on the third grade, I wonder whether this study also revealed the value of teachers, their satisfaction or their sense of feeling, whether the teachers had a different sense of appreciation in these smaller schools compared to the larger schools. The second part of the question is this: is it just a question of teachers' pay or that there could have been some added value as to how hard work was done, that is the 'expected' of the state, or was there any expectation of a local government that might not have been fulfilled?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U122	In general, man doesn't know the difference. The teacher knows the difference. Teachers, of course, said this very critically, that it is still not clear what it is the responsibility of the state, that the state does not fulfil its role, right, that everything is placed on the school, etc. There was one clear requirement for the state to fulfil its role. Unfortunately, the local government, as a term, did not appear in almost any response. [[Laughing.]] Since we had free answers, people could speak the words in which they speak, the country was spoken, and when a person talks about the country, he often puts in the local government.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U123	Now a quick question from Jürgen Ligi and then Marju Lauristin can finish this round of questions. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U124	Thank you. I didn't expect any more. I don't have a question about your call, it's always clear. But since I really hope you're coming back here to perform again, I have to say you interrupted the slides. At times too much text, at times too little text. The explanation of the drawings was illegible even with my absolute long-range vision. It's actually a problem, it interfered. But I'm sure they were very meaningful. My question is, on the contrary, what [the slides] did not contain. What is your view of the disunity between Russian and Estonian schools? This concerns both learning success and social networks. How much do you think we should take, and for how long? What do you think is the optimal course of action?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U125	Wait, what?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U126	The difference between Estonian and Russian schools in both educational success and social networks. What is the optimal action in your opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U127	Since I have dealt very much with this community topic in my life, I am sure that I believe that it must still come as far as we have already talked about, I believe that there should be a consensus here that this should take place since kindergarten, that free command of the Estonian language will come from kindergarten level for children and that everyone will be able to go to Estonian-language school. But in Russian, or not only in Russian, perhaps also in Estonian, a child may want to know more about Russian culture, for example. I am also in favour of what we have had in several studies, so that, apart from French lyceum and English College, there could also be a Russian lyceum for those interested in Russian high culture or Slavic high culture. There are also Estonians in Estonia. In short, there should be an Estonian-language education based on the same level of knowledge of the Estonian language as the native language. But to make children with a poor Estonian language learn Estonian, we know very well when we have come to perform in a language that we do not know well, isn't it, that it is quite difficult? This requires a completely bilingual child who can normally study in another language at a second language school.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U128	Thank you very much, Professor, for this presentation and for answering the questions. Now time has come to an end, and it is time for us to move on with Riina Sikkut's report. Riina, if it's okay with you, we'll go through a little procedure first. You proposed extending the sitting until 2:00, and it seems to me that we may need it. So let's vote this through. Ladies and gentlemen, please take the position as to whether we are ready to work today until 2:00, but no longer than the agenda is exhausted. On the contrary: until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than two o'clock. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U129	Nobody opposed the extension of the hearing, so we can move on. Come on, Riina, get in the chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U130	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, of course, I thank you for the meaningful and thought-provoking presentations, but first of all, thank you, I would say, for such an optimistic mind. In fact, all the waitresses confirmed that inequality is not something that is inevitable, a spiral that cannot be stopped, but if we have knowledge and desire, then we can reduce the gaps and change the direction of these natural processes. After all, we are discussing the issue of inequality so that the decisions that need to be taken to change the direction and reduce the gaps, including the decisions in the state budget that we will be discussing here in two weeks' time, we are prepared to do so. Madis Aben spoke more about income inequality in terms of economic development, this long time series and more of the topics examined. Tiit Tammaru introduced spatial inequalities, not only in terms of regional policy, but in terms of the number of posts with higher education, metrics that we do not normally see. While both Madis and Tiit talked about education as one way to bridge these gaps, Marju Lauristin described Estonia's crisis experience for the last year and a half, what education has been going through and what we should do if we really wanted education to give Estonian children a new impetus and, in fact, a better future and a better level playing field. Really, I think that if I had done a survey before Marju's presentation, a large part of this hall would not have thought that the crisis was best handled and that senior teachers were best adapted. That was surprising. But we have a lot of these attitudes or automatic opinions, I think, also in terms of inequality and ways of reducing it. In my report, I am talking about the three "misconceptions" or myths that are preventing us from making the necessary decisions in this Chamber to reduce inequalities. Some of these issues were already reflected. First of all, the belief that a solution can only be found by everyone, simply needs to be better. This is the notion that it is a personal concern of everyone if they did not understand the solution explained in the video hour or if the municipality missed an item in the round of the euro money application or if the family is under threat because of rising electricity prices or disappearing interest education support. Well, be good! Don't whine! So read what you didn't understand in the book, look elsewhere for money for the community house, or go to a more rewarding job! It's awfully easy to say and awfully easy to think about. But it's not really like that. Is Viimsi better than Värska by itself? Is the municipality of Viimsi more capable than the municipality of Setomaa? Well, it's not. There's nothing to distinguish them like that. One is simply located outside Tallinn. If we switched their seats on the map, in Setomaa, the problem would suddenly be whether to open ten or 11 parallels and where to fit this additional parallel, rather than how Meremägi Elementary School could continue to operate, either to make a composite class or to connect it to kindergarten. Very much is determined by the position, the starting position, the original situation. The question is whether we accept this, whether we consider this process to be inevitable or whether we intervene. If this perceptionism is not about one student or one family, or about one village, but about hundreds and thousands of villages, we have 4456, so in the case of villages, we can talk about thousands, then that is not the problem of it being a shrink or a worrier. That's the problem for all of us. After all, it can only be solved by someone in a stronger position, the one with the resources and opportunities to change the situation. Okay. Secondly, the hope that even if we are not good enough ourselves, then maybe it will pass away, maybe this inequality will just disappear. What, then, does it mean that inequality does not disappear by itself and is enhanced instead? This means that in fact we are not average, we are not average students, average families, average municipalities. I have repeatedly given an example of income distribution in Estonia from this remote control. When we make decisions on tax support schemes, we have to bear in mind that if we put Estonia's million income earners in line, including all pension beneficiaries, dividend income and rent income recipients, half of them earn approximately a minimum wage and almost 80% of them earn less than the average. There are also a large number of teachers, police officers, rescuers, cultural workers, social workers, nurses who receive this agreed remuneration when they get to work, which is below the Estonian average. These incomes will be transferred to savings, assets, which in turn will have an impact on income. Madise's presentation contained a beautifully long time series in the United States. The Estonian time series are shorter, the analysis has been done much less, because despite the fact that there is a lot of talk about inequality in the world, Estonia is not so much yet. In the Praxis review, it has been noted that although there have been few empirical studies in Estonia, the median level of net assets, i.e. the difference between people's assets and loans, is estimated to be the lowest in the euro area, but the inequality is one of the highest, the inequality of assets then. In fact, Eesti Pank has studied the financial behaviour and consumption habits of households so thoroughly and has found that the fastest increase in assets was the one fifth of households with the largest net assets. The value of the main household housing also increased the most. This is clearly in line with this US example. Even if we look at a relatively short period of time in Estonia, such as four to five years, the share of the assets of 5% of the wealthier households rose from 43% to 46%, and the Gini coefficient of net assets rose from 0.69 to 71. This increase in terms of this index is not positive. So the invisible hand brings more where it already is. The same is true in the education system. If we look at the experience of the crisis, yes, the crisis will illuminate inequalities, amplify them. But why is he amplifying? The crisis is a change, change needs to be adapted, resources are needed to adapt. Depends on the type of crisis that is the resource we need. Do we need money, time, fast Internet access, more housing to allow video lessons and meetings to be held in parallel in different rooms? Resources are needed and some of these resources are inevitably scarce. Three. If we don't think everyone has to be good, or maybe this inequality solves itself, then thirdly, the attitude is that the inequality is and will be, we are different. In fact, it is possible to make a change here. Of course, no one here is going to get the same size averaged. Social inequality in itself exists in a free society. Our preferences are different, our choices are different. Even if we have equal opportunities, we choose differently and it's totally okay. That's good in itself. But this nature and degree of inequality, in fact, in some sense, this tolerance limit that we have in society, is a matter of political choices and values. As we have heard today, inequality can start to inhibit economic development, inhibit sustainable development and, in fact, also hit social cohesion. Madis spoke about the transmission mechanism through social status, the feeling of superiority and inferiority, less trust. In times of crisis, it can be expressed in unexpected places. We here are wrestling with the fact that we are at the back end of the European Union at the rate at which vaccination is progressing, and in no way can we achieve the kind of vaccination coverage that has long been achieved in the Western countries. As Vilja Thomas asked, what is it? Is it just a low income? I would say that there is rather such overall coherence and trust in this context. But what can be changed? You can make opportunities more equal: access to health care, go to practice, have a home, do a job. These opportunities call for political decisions and also for money, but rather, in fact, for such an informed and informed decision. When we look at literature in general, which are the things that exist, the instruments that exist, there is the first talk about education, about the need to harmonise knowledge, skills, to create networks, to establish links, to have stronger coherence and to be able to make more choices in life as an adult, to make better choices. What has been said a lot in Estonia over the last six months, this cut in the funding of recreational education, is, in my opinion, an exceptionally cartoonous example. This was a regional policy measure. That's great! That's great! The child of Setomaa receives 14 times more support than the child of Tallinn. But if we decide to cut down and make such a decision freely, politicians will be very free to decide one and the other, and thirdly, if we do not understand that, by cutting down a very strong regional policy measure and saying that it will remain the responsibility of the local government, this robotic circle or the payment of transport compensation to children, what was previously 14 times the victory for Setomaa, now means that Setomaa will have to make 14 times more effort to ensure that these children in the robotic circle can continue to go there. In other words, a measure that was regional policy could, as a result of the decision, start to amplify regional disparities. [It is necessary] to better inform or reflect on the changes we are making. Small decisions, too, can actually give transitions far beyond what we see at first sight as an invisible perpetrator. Just as we speak in health policy that health [must be taken into account] in every policy, just as if we wanted to balance regional disparities, we should talk about regional policy for every decision. Social transfers, which are actually able to reduce such relative poverty, use them by all countries, have different efficiency. If we line up the Member States of the European Union, we can see that in Estonia these transfers reduce relative poverty by about a quarter; in Finland more than half of the transfers aim to get people who live in relative poverty without them out of relative poverty. Indeed, Estonia is once again at the back end of Latvia and Bulgaria, and this is also clearly a matter of political choices. The berries mentioned that social scientists cannot experiment, politicians can. I very much support experimentation. It is true that a decision can really be made and it may appear that the consequences are unexpected or negative, or ones that could not be recorded at first glance or taken into account in the impact assessment. Then you can rethink it, you can do it differently. Small things actually come together as an example of our great regional policy. Although we really have not talked about inequality at length or looked at it honestly and it is not intended to be reduced, the change has slowly begun to come. For example, the latest population health development plan aims at reducing inequalities in health for the first time, both gender inequalities and regional inequalities. Once such an objective has been set, it is clear that steps must be taken to do so. Inequality is not in itself a disgrace that should not be spoken of or acknowledged. On the contrary, if we have an overview of the situation, we can deliberately set goals and make decisions. In this Chamber too, we should actually understand that the solution is not an individual, a rural municipality or a family. There's no point just hoping it'll pass. Similarly, we do not need to give up and accept the inevitable. We can actually make these changes here. I hope that today's debate will benefit from the budgetary debate, and we will make wiser decisions. Thank you. But I see that even I have questions. Pleasure!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U131	And with these questions, Eduard Odines will begin.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U132	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good Riina, thank you for this brief summary of the three presentations and also for adding your thoughts! But I've got an idea in my head today that you might be able to reflexize. It is based on Madis Aben's response to my Japanese question. He believed that the link between income distribution and social problems could lie in the structure of Japanese society, which is more collective. I was beginning to think that maybe that's the key, and that's why the Nordics are doing this. Perhaps we would also like an Estonia where there is such a collective feeling, involvement, our feeling, where everyone is important, a large family, etc. versus individualism, everyone for themselves, everyone guilty if they can't manage, etc. Perhaps this is also the path to which we should strive and, as politicians and social designers, build such Estonia together with scientists? Or did my idea go completely wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U133	Thank you for a good question. I don't know how to reflect Japan like Madis, but in the Riigikogu Toimetised conversation circle, we also discussed the coronal experience. What surprised me, rather than tone the parallel with the Nordic countries, was how last spring, when choosing Finland's path, really chose very harsh measures. The question is whether the closure of borders was a violation of European Union law. Finland chose its own way of dealing with the crisis, how to control the spread of the infection. People really did follow the instructions given by the government, people thought that their path was right, that this collective decision is what will help them through the crisis. Everyone contributed, worked along. Now we see these vaccination coverage levels as excellent. After all, Sweden decided that they were close and valuablely similar to Finland, they took entirely different risks, but there was also a very high level of social inclusion. It wasn't said to listen, but Finland does something about why. The direction of collective choice began to move. Maybe they were wrong, maybe they weren't, but it was a sense of unity that we were doing this, it was our way, whether we were being fingered and criticized or praised. I think this demonstrates that these are cohesive societies. Somehow the certainty that yes, in a crisis we may be wrong, we do not know how long the crisis will last, how it will be over, but it is our decision, and we will go this way together. There was no such thing in Estonia. In some ways, that also reflects your question. Yeah, I think the Nordic way is our way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U134	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U135	Thank you, good waitress. We had three academic level presentations, all very good, all different, and your test, also a perfectly decent one-on-one, somehow a little bit to relate them to each other. But I'd still say no one connected their story with that stupid title. Are you proud of the fact that you put that title? How did you get to that? You have given an example of flies, which I am sure was unhappy when I arrive, and I will comment on it, unfortunate as an example, unfortunate as a criticism. But surely the link is that expenditure is cut because of poverty, rather than cutbacks, which do not create poverty itself when it comes to the subject. How did you get to that title? How do you assess its connection to the actual texts?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U136	Thank you! It's very nice to have tongue - sensitive people who ask about slides and headlines. So thank you, Jurgen! As with a lot of things in life, this is such a path-dependency. When we planned the OTRK, the crash news was fresh, and we planned the OTRK for spring. But it happened, like it happened, night sessions. Just as we have been working all week on the drafts that we should have dealt with during the spring session, just as it has been with this title and everything, it has been transferred from spring to spring. But if I had to call it tonight, I could put it the same way. I do not agree with your comment that the link between the use of budgetary resources and poverty or any other result is in any way only one-way, that cuts cannot lead to poverty or so. What budgetary choices we make, whether we invest in somewhere, is education, health or any other area that is close to your heart, such as green turns, how enthusiasticly and with how much budgetary support we are going to make this turn, actually affects the outcome. How wisely we use these tools affects whether the result increases inequality or helps us build a more cohesive society.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U137	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U138	Thank you. Well, it can be cut short. If, for example, the subsidies aimed at reducing poverty are cut and, at the same time, the tax incentives introduced to the most prosperous are retained, this obviously has an impact. But my question concerns the targeting of inequalities in different policies. I had the same experience. I remember, in 2015, a long development plan was put together in the Ministry of Social Affairs and, in fact, the inequality of income and employment rates by gender, for example, as labour market indicators, was not even targeted at all, or even at national level, although this is clearly one of the most important bottlenecks in this area. Well, there it is now, in some other development plan, population health development plan, etc. But why have we, as a whole, paid very little attention to this in the country's strategic documents? It cannot be said that Estonia does not know that this is a problem and that it needs to be addressed, and that there are solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U139	Thank you. I would still say in the first step that it is more difficult to do and to implement these solutions. But I do not think we have understood in all areas that we have very many things quite well. Whether we are looking at the results of PISA or at average wages in some areas, such as the IT sector. We do not need to raise the average; our goal must not be to do anything better, to raise someone's income even more. Our concern is that the average rise will not hide that not everyone can do better, that incomes do not grow or that the chances of getting a job are the same, that they will not be able to harness their potential in society. It's this change of thinking that it doesn't matter, I don't know, medal spots or average, but that someone doesn't go missing. I think it's humanly difficult to start looking at all things using another frame, approaching all things. After all, this debate on inequality also reflects that when making budgetary decisions, we should look at them using another filter. Not how much the absolute number will increase, but how it is divided regionally, what the result is, and whether the average increase means that everyone gets better. Rather, a change of thinking is what, I think, it is difficult to do and collectively difficult to do so, so that it is reflected in the decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U140	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U141	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Actually, my question was meant for the esteemed Professor Lauristin, but since his appointment was over, I hope you are on the same level as he is. First of all, I would like to look into the fact that, as we know, Estonia has a development plan for education until 2035 which is about 14 years. We know from history that there were five-year plans in the Soviet Union, in the meantime seven years were also tried, but then they went back five years. After all, it is clear that in our society there are extremely rapid processes, sometimes turbulence, sometimes laminarly different processes, which basically change the course of this stable development. Science, engineering, the processes in society are all changing it. Would it not be reasonable to shorten the development strategy so that it is not 14 years from now, but less years from now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U142	Thank you. Really, it's hard to predict, to plan long plans, but it can't be without them. We are talking about Estonia having a vision and goals. Here we are still talking about long-term things that cannot be done with budgetary decisions for a year. It's not like 15 years is the optimal size, it can target more or less years. But there has also been the sound of skepticism in the development plans in this Chamber. In addition to being able to accurately anticipate these moves in 15 years' time, I bring here the process of drawing up a development plan where people from their field come together, discussing the existing situation and major concerns and trying to find a consensus on how these concerns could be resolved and what is the right path for Estonia. So regardless of how satisfied or dissatisfied we are with what is written on paper and, for a long period, the process that has been conducted in the field is at least as valuable as not more valuable. There's nothing you can do to leave behind what's hidden in the paper. Whether to do this every five years or less often, it is not up to the leaders of the field to decide, but yes, the main thing is that this process is as valuable or more valuable as the paper that comes together.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U143	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U144	Thank you, Mr President. Good Riina! Since you brought all the waitresses together, that question is for you. When it comes to the poor, our education system and our financial literacy, do you not think that one problem is very clear: financial literacy is very poor for our people and, therefore, the poorer people are clearly spending more than they are earning? They spend more on loan money. I mean consumer loans, credit cards, etc. Shouldn't it be improved in some way, especially among poor people? In fact, it would help bring them out of the poverty cycle.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U145	Thank you. That's a really good question. I think all mathematics teachers agree that when children ask what practical benefits are from calculating compound interest, there is a very clear point where you can refer to the desire of all people to borrow, it is a housing loan or something else, to manage their personal budget better and therefore to create better opportunities for yourself. But speaking of people who are in a loan trap, I agree that this is a major concern in society if people really don't get paid officially because it's going to cover old debts, and it gives rise to such different negative decisions. There is a loan counselling service provided by the local government. I know very good loan counselors who are willing to work with people on their incomes, debts and family budgets, to give expert advice. Sometimes all you need is a couple of tricks and a logical understanding of the order in which, for example, the accumulated liabilities should be repaid. So, on the one hand, there is a circle of social services that must undoubtedly be provided. On the other hand, what is also about advertising is what we allow people to promise and what is not, what is the responsibility of their financial institutions. Third, that people who are still growing and are starting to make these choices would really get the skills and knowledge they need from the education system to make financial decisions in their lives, I don't know how to do better, make real choices so that you take on the burden you can afford and understand how to compare different products and better deal with numbers.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U146	Good Riina, we have 40 seconds left and...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U147	Quick question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U148	Indrek, I believe you can ask for it separately. I will see that Indrek is also a representative of the Social Democrats in the negotiations. So I believe that it would make sense for us to move towards them if we wanted to give at least all the political groups the opportunity to speak. Thank you. Let's move on to the negotiations. During the negotiations, let me remind you, we are the first to wait here for the representatives of the political groups so that we can at least listen to the representatives of all the political groups and then to all the other members of the Riigikogu. Please, Jürgen Ligi! [[A voice from the hall.]] During the negotiations, the order is as recorded. [[A voice from the hall.]] You have to talk about what's been prepared.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U149	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U150	I'm sorry! Indrek Island has a procedural question first. Indrek.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U151	I'm really sorry, I didn't mean to interrupt Jürgen. It's just that you may be on the board talking about how to behave on such occasions. The previous President of the sitting said what Jürgen just referred to. The hall had been given a different signal. But I very much agree that we all want to actually listen to what the other groups think, and I can talk calmly at the end.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U152	Yeah. I'm just looking at what kind of application you've made yourself. The request you made to the Bureau was that the members of the Riigikogu and representatives of committees and political groups may make speeches. The Social Democratic Party Group called for the political groups to speak first, without specifying that soccer groups would be the first. Indrek Island microphone, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U153	I did not want to take any more time for this, but the President did not listen to what I said: please agree in the Bureau how you will behave the next time, because your colleague Martin Helme gave us different instructions earlier. You can review the verbatim. Just my comment was that, in order to smoothen the work and avoid confusion, the board could agree among themselves on how you deal with such situations.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U154	The Bureau will be happy to agree on these, but the Bureau also has a nice tradition that, in particular, in matters of major national importance, we are based on the wishes of the initiators. If the initiators want to speak first, of course they will get that opportunity. We didn't see it from here. But I think what you said yourself is that you can put it together nicely, I think, is fine with you. Before I return the microphone to Jürgen, I will also tell the Isamaa Group: if it is all right with you, I would allow the representatives of the political groups to speak first and then the other members of the Riigikogu. Now, please, Mr. Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U155	Thank you. I repeat and maintain that there were three academically very good presentations and one perfectly good presentation from a member of the Riigikogu, but a completely inappropriate title and the lack of link between the presentations and its title. They weren't really talking about flies. It was also inappropriate to comment on my point that the poor could be cut down. Of course you can, but we're not discussing it. Our job is, in fact, structural policy, i.e. giving up something for something better. I mean, there's no separate goal of making someone poor. However, yes, it was quite right to add that cutting tax incentives would help to reduce inequality. This is precisely because they are generally acquired by the most prosperous layer, and their purpose is almost always very weak. But it is still that poverty or lack of resources is why they are being taken away from somewhere. Debate, when I think of one of Madis Abel's slides, it doesn't matter if the inequality could be good. No, I don't think anyone in Estonia has said that or thought it out loud. However, the debate is again about which measures are optimal, to what extent it is good to reduce inequalities, whether it is unduly inhibiting initiative or even creating new poverty. In my opinion, the topics we would have liked to hear more about are, for example, the same education, which seems to have been spoken about a lot, and not so much in the corona context, but also in that. Since we are talking about inequality, once again, I think one of the corona's summaries is that the odds of inequality increased. I don't have any scientific information on this, but the behinds are more behind. That might have strengthened the connection with that title. After all, the Estonian school in general has been completely unspoken once again, as of around 2015, the OECD was the most even. It's a super result. I say admirable. There will be relatively little inequality. But, of course, it must be stressed that school is one of the most fundamental drivers of equal opportunities. We should be extremely sensitive in these areas. Unfortunately, as Minister of Education, I had to fight in public for a very long time on fattening in private schools. The financing system was absurd. It's absurd again now, but it's different. In fact, this sneaking educational stratification may continue. I cannot yet appreciate the consequences of the changes made by Mailis Reps. This is once again one thing we should acknowledge that educational stratification is a huge social mine. Then, of course, the language issue, whether and to what extent we should endure segregation and separate custody. It is clear that this is also a question of learning success. Once again, in the case of the school network, we should be talking about cuts being... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U156	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U157	... purposefully necessary. We need to cut the school network in order to improve the quality of education, and quality also means convergence. If teachers don't get a full load anywhere, we have a serious problem, because better teachers don't go there. This is, unfortunately, the way we regard cuts as one of the things that increase equality. So it's a two-way street. It's all a debate question, there are no single answers here. It's the same health thing, isn't it? Is there a big hospital in Tallinn? I'll keep my fingers crossed for the concrete to be cut and the contents added. This is one of the worrying things that will take a huge chunk of our future budgets. I hope it takes as small a chunk as possible, but right now it looks like it's gonna take a bigger one than it's scared. At the same time, the hospital network must be concentrated in order to have quality. There's nothing we can do about it. I think there's room for debate, but there's no single answers either. Or the environment. Excise duty. Let's just say by cutting the diesel excise we actually create regional risk. I mean, excise. But here again, I think environmental considerations are bigger, and green thinking is much more important. As a method for all uniform fossil[fuel] burning benefits are cynical and costly. It's just an example. Of course, there's a debate room. But how much should we pay a subsidy to people like us to get the same subsidy? I think the answer is rather that you shouldn't. The methods should be different. But this is an example of the devastating effects of tax exemptions, which are in fact even more visible elsewhere, when all these income tax exemptions run into the first, second, at most third, decile. Or the creation of a tax-free minimum, which was supposed to increase equality, but he certainly didn't, because his sources were predominantly weak, the poorest didn't get anything. We have not talked here at all about real poverty. Tax incentives do not reach the poorer, and relative poverty in this way, according to my calculations, increased. Pensioners actually shifted downward in relative poverty, were taken away from a very large lump, even at the expense of the low wages. In particular, the poor received nothing and the budget loss is very high. At the same time, there were indirect taxes, for example. Or the highway. In my opinion, the number of lanes on the road may be reduced if it can lead to the elimination of regional bottlenecks on the road network. And an awful shame, but in the last sentence, a university close to home. I think the university network might be cut. Someone here mentioned it. School yeah, let little children learn near home, but students may still be cut off from their university. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Last sentence, I'm so sorry. I didn't like the end of Professor Tammaru's report because it was canceled. What was so good was the regional political observation that this link was, whether jobs and services were going to disappear first or last.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U158	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U159	I'll point out that first people go away and then unfortunately post offices and other things follow. But this wailing has always been very clearly the opposite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U160	Okay. In the name of the central fraction, which one of you, Maria or Siret? Maria. On behalf of the central fraction, Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U161	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I stress the importance and topicality of the issue of inequality that has been brought to today's debate. This is undoubtedly a crucial national issue. There are still more than 20% of the population in Estonia who live in relative poverty. That's an unacceptable amount. The number of people living in absolute poverty who earn less than 221 euros per month, who, according to Statistics Estonia, have 30500 people, or 2% of the population, is also a serious pain for Estonia, which requires decisive action. Estonia's success is vividly demonstrated by the development of our economy in the last quarter of the century. Since 1995, Estonia's GDP per capita has grown impressively from 36% to 86% compared to the European Union average. As GDP grows, social stratification must not become worse. Quite the contrary. The risk of poverty is primarily a threat to individuals of all ages, but above all to the elderly, but also to the unemployed young people of university age. Poverty must therefore be combated, inter alia, by strengthening a sense of social solidarity. 20 years ago, our social scientists were anxious to use the concept of two developing Estonia at different speeds. The present society, not only in Estonia, is inevitably increasingly fragmented. It is increasingly difficult to describe problems in general. However, this does not mean that problems do not exist or should not be dealt with. There is a lack of solidarity and equal opportunities in Estonian society. The pandemic set us all in the midst of the same concerns and gave us the opportunity to take a new start in the fight against social problems. It is not too late to review political practices and perceptions that exacerbate inequality. Let us continue to look at the fact that the strength of the chain is determined by its weakest link, guided by the development of society. It is not fair to leave alone those people who have everyday concerns about basic coping for both health and socio-economic reasons. It's a bit wrong to accuse them or mock them for their failure. This behaviour, both by politicians and by all other public figures, is wrong and irresponsible and only creates anger and opposition. The 25-year section of available statistical data allows for a summary of whether the growth-induced rise in living conditions is being divided between more and less families. I call for a consistent use of a simple but very important control issue in policy making. How could Estonia's progress be shared by those who have taken on the most vulnerable role, but who certainly do not want to remain in that role? These include children from families facing social problems, elderly and disabled people suffering from loneliness and illness. The list of different risk groups could continue here, but our ability to spot and care for our fellow citizens is more decisive. While enjoying the freedom that has lasted for 30 years, it is worth looking into each other's eyes to ask, which is a personal expression of Estonia's success story. Ladies and gentlemen, How can it be achieved that every person living in Estonia has a personal success experience of the good performance of our country and thus a strong sense of ownership in his home country, still through a sense of goodwill and solidarity, while at the same time with concrete and complex measures? Where, then, if not here in the Riigikogu, it is necessary to look at the various political initiatives in their interaction. We need measures developed together with scientists and taking into account previous practices in Estonia and other countries, for example, to make it easier for young mothers to re-enter the labour market with all their real potential and not to remain dependent on their partners or parents. If, for example, we change the principles of calculating maintenance allowance, we must also make sure that changes do not put single parents at risk. For my part, therefore, I have proposed publicly to increase the minimum amount of parental pay by 200 euros. I will add measures to this, which will also help, among other things, to create more equal opportunities for access to the labour market. We must further develop the public housing fund. On the initiative of the Transport Board, it is necessary to establish a public transport scheme operating nationally in a uniform manner. It is well worth looking for new solutions so that poorer people can afford more dental care. We need to find additional flexible ways of making better use of older people's potential in the labour market, so as to reduce both skills shortages and the problems of older people's economic livelihood. A number of serious resource loss problems that need to be tackled seriously are high rates of early school leaving. A few words about budget cuts. The Ministry of Finance confirms in its latest economic forecast that the private sector has become the driver of wage growth, but that wage levels have not recovered in the sectors most affected by the pandemic, such as trade, accommodation and catering and entertainment. The crisis has also highlighted the concerns of many employees in the public sector. Teachers, rescue officers and medical staff continue to be overloaded. In such a situation, given the significant increase in economic growth, the plans for cutting the government sector at issue this spring must be carefully and responsibly reviewed. The need to improve the budgetary position must not turn into a brake on expected economic growth or lower the standard of living for workers in some areas that are important for Estonia. If cuts were implemented using the axe method, the first result would be increased injustice, not an economic effect and a depreciation of the loan money for our country. According to Madis Müller, Governor of Eesti Pank, the pressure in Estonia to increase prices is stronger than the European average, which is also boosted by the money that has left the pension system. Finally, I would like to remind you of a point that was hidden in the shadow of the coronauts. I hope you remember how the motto of the general Song Festival of 2019 was the rightly chosen spell "Nobody Is." Poverty in Estonia means not only laboring in lack of money, but also inequality, lack of opportunities, uncertainty and peripheralisation, and, above all, loneliness. If we know more about each other and care for each other, we will give ourselves and society as a whole more opportunities to become wealthier. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U162	And now on behalf of the Isamaa Group, Heiki Hepner.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U163	Thank you, President-in-Office. Honourable waitresses! Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, reducing inequalities is beneficial for the economy, there is probably no doubt about it, and it is beneficial for the whole of society. The main issue, as we have said here today, is the search for a balance between the various components. This is the golden key in some ways that could provide a solution. What have we done here? You could bring some keywords, but with this additional clause that what has brought us here will not take us any further. Perhaps we need to keep thinking and improving. Greater attention for families with children, parental pay, maternity pension, also [grant] for families with many children, which is very important for the development of Estonia as a whole and for the survival of the Estonian people, but also for 500 euros of income tax-free minimum for low-wage earners. We'll have to think about it from here. Here too today there were comments on the subject of free higher education that have not quite realized everything that was planned. We should think further, but we could take as a whole that good and accessible education from early childhood education to higher education is undeniably crucial for less inequality. One point, which is generally not very wanted to be highlighted, but which, today, gave rise to some debate in the round of questions, in fact, has already been branded a little in speeches, concerns the role of a homogeneous society. It was the same graph, a figure with Japan at one end and the United States at the other end. A clear indication was that the more homogeneous the country is, the less there are health and social problems. This is a very important point, and I think that this point will also be very, very useful for us to discuss a number of other issues in the future. I personally have regional problems that are extremely close to my heart, regional development. This has been one of my missions in the Riigikogu, and that is why I listened to the presentation in this area with the greatest attention and thought very, very much too. Indeed, it seems to me that we tend to talk sometimes about giving support, making some sort of distinction to someone, not least how to create a functioning, self-regulatory, positive feedback system, with particular emphasis on the road network, the communication network, including, of course, the fast internet, all such infrastructure. This is, in my opinion, one thing that would give us a self-regulatory system with this positive feedback, which would be very, very important in regional development. Ladies and gentlemen, We should take a qualitative step here, not only with 2+2 roads, which are also very important, and we need not only to limit ourselves to a good Internet connection, but we should also think about how the problem of local roads can be solved. We also saw that small towns and county centres are the ones that have been hit the most. This is important, it should be given greater attention than we have paid. It is extremely important that we have regional development and that we do not have to make it there... Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U164	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U165	... no additional benefits and just try to keep people there somehow by force. The presentations moved to education and the health crisis. You could say, paraphrasing, that a good crisis should not be wasted. It has a point, but I don't want to stop at all, I don't want to stop at all, I just want to stop at the one slide where we saw that everyone was actually hit by the health crisis, students, teachers and parents, but most of all were stressed, most of all parents were in trouble. Here comes another problem. If I talked about positive feedback earlier, now I see a threat to negative feedback, and that is an extremely serious problem. If parents fail, there will be additional problems and stress for both students and teachers, which in turn causes it for parents. We must pay much more attention to this than we have done so far. We now come to the educational strategy that we discussed three days ago. Sadly, I was actually critical at the time, too, that not only was the health crisis addressed, but I would say in general the role of parents in this very matter: student-teacher-parent. I very, very much hope that the Ministry of Education and Research will once take this strategy to the table and deal with it in substance. It is not a formal document anywhere on the shelf; it is a document that shapes the future of Estonia. This is one of the most important documents we can have. To sum it up. What, in the opinion of the Isamaa Group, will help to reduce inequality? Repeating the main moments. A strong autonomous government with substantial financial autonomy. This is very, very important. Investments in roads and communication infrastructure. We must not forget the same example of a homogeneous society. We must at least consider when discussing different issues, because it has an impact on health and social problems. It is very, very important to pay attention to families with children, and here too, it was noted that there is clearly a positive impact on the birth rate in rural areas, so we also need to raise and keep in mind this [the subject]. Quality and accessible education from primary education to higher education. Finally, of course, the same educational strategy, which regrettably has now been relatively formal. We need to look at this in essence before it is approved by the government. Inequality cannot be cut out, but it can be significantly reduced by acting wisely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U166	Now on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, Indrek Saar. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U167	Thank you, Mr President, for giving the floor. Let me begin by thanking all three experts, professors, for their presentations. Madis Aben, Tiit Tamamaru, Marju Lauristin, thank you very much! These three presentations, I think, described very nicely the picture of the choices we are facing today as a society and gave a very diverse overview of what inequality entails and what it contains. Thank you, Mr Riina Sikkut, for organising this whole debate in essence, for concluding agreements and for carrying out a presentation and, of course, for summing it up. I really want to say thank you to my colleagues. Compared to the political culture, which has certainly already created discussion in the public, which has unrolled itself in this Chamber in recent times, today's debate was something that, I hope, we may see more often in this Chamber. It was meaningful, minimally made-up slogans and listened to each other. I think this is a good example of how parliamentary discussion in reality could help to conclude social agreements between Estonia. Of course, I would like to thank all those monitoring the transfer who have been able to conduct this long, thorough and often detailed discussion with us. I come to what Madis Aben started his report on. What has happened recently on the subject of inequality? Two things have happened. Inequality has increased, which unfortunately is a sad fact, but which, in my opinion, gives hope, because inequality has finally begun to be talked about, which, unfortunately, has not been done at all frequently and sufficiently in the last 30 years for the real awareness of the problems that inequality brings about in society. Therefore, I think that the more we hold a social debate on this issue, the more likely we are that we will be able to do something for our society and actually solve these problems. And why shouldn't we talk about it in Estonia, if even an institution such as the World Economic Forum, which, from afar, looks like a real glamour party that comes together in Davos, when all the rich and beautiful come together, has for years raised the growth of inequality as the main problem facing the world. Perhaps all who perceive what this means for the economy will realise that it is disastrous in every sense, not only in humane categories, but also in material categories. After all, what were some of today's questions, in itself, shows that there are elementary things that we may not have talked about enough in this Parliament too. Also, the fact that Madis Aben had to explain again today from this remote control that, as sad as it may seem, we have no reason to believe that we are born equal. Unfortunately, we are already born into unequal conditions, even though we would all like to think that we are all born equal and that our children are born in equal conditions with others. I'm afraid it's not alive. Our government union today... I'm asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U168	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U169	... has made its coalition agreement very clear and promised that one of their main objectives is to reduce regional, social and economic disparities. Here I come to what Jürgen Ligi protested against. I also thank him very much for today's discussion, which was substantive, but there are many things in which I do not agree with him, although there are many things, too, when we talk about inequality, where we really have to agree with our right-wing colleague. From this we come to the fact that today we have a government that, on the one hand, has clearly declared, perhaps more clearly than the previous government associations ever before, that they are dealing with reducing inequalities. If we look at what were the first spots that were hit, we'll see something's shifted. We have also heard from my colleague, Mrs Jufereva-Skuratovski, an inspiring speech on what needs to be done with inequality. And when we look at what the government does with their involvement, we see that the first thing they're going to do is cut off children's recreational education. Very many people, including those who are not Social Democrats, have said that listen, this [support] was one of the clearest measures to reduce inequalities, both social and regional, in recent years. Not to mention what we have said about equal opportunities for children, to which today's presentations also indicated that there must be a contribution to reduce inequality. And the first thing this government's going to do is cut it, to chase some kind of fiscal slogan. This is essentially wrong, and that is why the title of today's debate is fully justified. But we also see that when it comes to maintenance, for example, we've been talking about it for years, we've been doing all kinds of research, but we're not taking a single step. Perhaps these responsibilities have been imposed on families to the maximum, and those who will have to live with this obligation will be excluded from society one day. We have not really taken this challenge seriously. Let's look at our spatial development, the regional development that we're talking about today. We were presented with the Human Development Report more than a year ago. It's dusting in the closet. In reality, we do nothing as a society, even though there are specific scenarios, simplified scenarios. Let's try to make a deal. That's what we can actually do. And that's where we should go. This same human development report speaks of the Human Development Index. There are different lucky indices similar to the Human Development Index. We can see that the Nordic countries are undoubtedly always the top ten, one of the happiest countries in the world. Why? Because they have made choices of solidarity. They have always prioritised precisely the fact that the state and the community have to deal with reducing inequalities. My appeal is that, as a society, now that we have been talking for some time, that we need the next social agreement in NATO, we are in the European Union, we are in the OECD, we are among the rich, we are thinking about the choices that have been made that make the Scandinavian people happy, which makes this society coherent. We agree that our next goal could be what 3/4 of the people who responded to the survey we commissioned supported: Estonia's goal could be from its own value area like the Nordics. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Let us move in this direction, let us conclude this agreement and let us start to do something specifically for this too. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Thank you. Time's up. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U170	Right. Now let's move on to the next wishes. Mikhail Lotman! Excuse me, indeed, EKRE has set up Peeter Ernits on behalf of the EKRE Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U171	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be as brief as possible so as not to discriminate against my colleague. The subject was [the subject] already in the spring, I supported it when it was culled out. But now, if you look at the subject and the presentations that were all interesting, they didn't come together much. It was just an interesting discussion in a warm room. How can poverty be cut out? Tiit Tammaru, Professor, well, okay, there's a way to tie it. What we could really talk about now is that everyone is talking about the price of electricity and who will be able to choose a warm room and warm food in the coming winter or autumn and perhaps some will not. We don't have a problem, our house will definitely be heated. How does it fit and coincide with inequality, who suffers more and who must be helped? But that's it. There's inequality everywhere. Some are divided between men and women. Boys are more born than girls, but when they become men, they live much less. It's inevitable. Also, those who are richer live longer, and those who are poorer live less, their health is crippled. Those who live in the city live longer, and those who live in the country live less. There are infinitely such things and such academic discussions could be held. What did we hear here? Lifecycle. Yeah, that's interesting. Interestingly, young people in the city, old people in the country, and green people pour out. This means that those who are initially concentrated in cities will eventually go to the countryside too. But if we recall what the National Audit Office showed quite recently, the four cards with police officers, rescuers, teachers, etc., it turned out that there are no support structures in those places where the society, the Estonian people, is sinking. The house is on fire. There are no rescuers. Someone's stealing something out there. There are no cops. No teachers. There are other class managers, but the few children born there are not mathematics or science teachers. That was interesting. Or that we have another home in our border regions. Whatever it is, it's on islands in western Estonia, East Estonia or Mountain Estonia. Corona, yes, the connection to this topic again, which was announced in the spring, is perhaps not the strongest. Really, amplifies inequality, no doubt. Yesterday, a couple of men were put on a plate, they also amplified inequality, distributed money where it might not have been. The investigative bodies and the court will probably show you how it really was. This was particularly interesting, for indeed the corona has hit a lot of people, including those who have children who go to school. Surprisingly, schoolchildren didn't have a lot of problems compared to three groups. But the parents did, plucked their hair and were under a lot of stress. The teachers were there in the meantime. Interestingly, of course, it was the conclusion that, in fact, these older teachers who went through pipes and suffering were best able to carry out the trials. Young people were like flowers when they believed the results of Professor Lauristin's study. So we heard some interesting stories in this warm room, but I think we should have talked more about the subject. At the same time, I acknowledge that Professor Lauristin's presentation was taken here, he spoke of the matter, of the corona, of what has happened in the meantime. Interesting, really very interesting academic and vital presentation. But that's all I wanna talk about. It's nice to talk here because decisions are not taken on the OTRK. Just such a nice chat room in a warm room. Until then, at least we have a warm room.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U172	And Mikhail Lotman puts a stop to the day. Please! Three minutes even perhaps fail [to give], maybe two succeed. It's 1:53.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U173	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank the Socialists for organising this interesting debate and, of course, especially our waitresses, the excellent waitresses, of whom, unfortunately, only one has remained. We're talking about inequality. This is a complex issue and we cannot reduce it to income alone, it would be a dangerous simplification. Differences, of course, will always remain, but here, no matter how right I am, I am very strongly in favour of children having equal access to education. There's no problem here. How do you arrange it, do you do everything for free? I don't think this is the right way. It would be better to develop a fair system of scholarships and grants, because what comes free of charge is not particularly valued, but if it has to work a little bit on its own, then the result is usually better. Once again, elite schools have been hit, so that they create, restore inequality. In my opinion, if it were to be harmonised here, I'd say from the other end. I would like all Estonian schools to be elite schools and to provide an excellent education. Yes, there are some misunderstandings here, but not so much with waitresses as with our colleagues. Perhaps most of all, I would like to opt for Mr Odines, who put Scandinavian and Japanese together. These are very different societies. Scandinavian societies are very individualistic; even Estonians are a much more social nation; I do not know whether "thank you" to Russification and Soviet power or whether it was formed itself. Very individualistic and one-man centered. In Japan, the family has a huge role to play. Working husband, wife, is an outrageous thing, young women work, then get married and stop working. The family has an absolutely different role to play. My younger son completes his PhD in Japan. There's a boy in the dorm who stole what's an outrageous thing in Japan, but that's what happened. They caught him and told him to return it. He very arrogantly said: "Well, what are you doing, going to the police? It's nothing. " No, we'll let your parents know. " Then all things were returned immediately. It's the biggest thing if you embarrass your family. It is not like we Western Europeans who have individual responsibility. No, it's not. It's family responsibility. Coherence is very important. It was also said here that it is also very important to have national, say, coherence or homogeneity. Estonia's figures are very low because there are a large number of people here, including me, who are migrants or descendants of migrants. If we only looked at the parameters of ethnic Estonians, it would be much better. If we now imagine that there will be a significant number of refugees or immigrants coming to Estonia, then it will immediately undermine coherence. When we talk about gender equality in terms of education, I am very sorry that Marju's report did not include separate parents, mothers and fathers. I think the stress of mothers is much greater than the stress of fathers, and even more stress is on single parents, and yet perhaps much greater stress is on families of many children, where there is a purely physical [problem] that now can do their homework on the computer. But I don't want to overestimate the problem with the screen that the kids are too much in front of it. I have 12 grandchildren, and each of them has the greatest punishment, which may be, when they're disconnected. It's not like they're in front of the screen because of e-learning, on the contrary. We also missed this crisis in the development of educational software. Estonia had pretty good school software, e-books, etc. before the crisis. Pretty good. But in the new situation, we didn't manage vaccination, our e-state, or e-learning. There are two very important things I would like to talk about. Firstly, this environment must be standard for all schools. Secondly, it must be powerful and variable enough to allow us to take account of specific needs. And finally, I just wanted to say that we have to look for new solutions. Currently, virtual reality is in entertainment, but it would be a very powerful tool for conducting the learning process and especially for children with special needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-16_U174	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 14:00. Thank you for bringing the Socialists to the OTRK Chamber and thank you to everyone who contributed. I would like to thank the professor, as well as the other professors who have already left, and wish you a nice working day. I'll see you next week.
