ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U1	Good fellows, the chairman's break is over. At the moment, it seems to us that the sitting system has been able to be restarted and operational again. Kalle Grünthal, procedural please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U2	Thank you, Mr President. The question is, since this thing went off here, our remotes have also become one that doesn't signal any more. I think we should do a presence check, maybe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U3	Yes, thank you! This message has also come to me on the phone that I want to have a presence check. Good colleagues, we're conducting a presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U4	80 members of the Riigikogu registered, no 21.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U5	Dear colleagues, when we took a break, we were on the verge of a vote. The subject of the vote is that the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party has proposed to reject the draft 347 at first reading. Can we go to the vote? I will put to the vote the draft proposal by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia to reject the 347 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U6	With the result by 18, against 62 the proposal was not supported. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 349 be terminated. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline of 31 March at 5 p.m. for the submission of amendments. It's... Sorry, 347. That concludes the ninth item. We will move on to agenda item 10 - the first reading and word of the Bill 349 on Amendment to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, is the presentation by the Minister of Education and Research. Liina Kersna, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U7	We will move on to the 10th item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act initiated by the Government of the Republic (349 SE). And the word is for the Minister of Education and Science. Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U8	Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am before you with the amendments to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, which relate in particular to the organisation of state examinations during the COVID crisis. Our aim is to ensure that no child's school is left unfinished due to the COVID crisis and that all graduates who wish to enter the next school level can apply in time for the schools they wish to enter, including international universities. To this end, we ask Parliament for permission, first of all, to change the timing of the examinations. This is in case the COVID crisis situation does not allow exams to be carried out on the dates set last summer. Secondly, if necessary, offer a third examination time, especially for those young people who, due to bad coincidences, such as isolation or illness, are unable to attend either during the first exam or during the additional exam. It is with these in mind that we ask for the opportunity to set the third test dates so that all children can receive their graduation certificate. And thirdly, if the government has to impose additional restrictions on movement, for example, we will eliminate today's differences in schools, where consultation can take the form of contact training, where children with special educational needs can be taught, where traineeships can be carried out in small groups, but also, under today's exceptions, exams can also be carried out in the schoolhouse. If the government has to change this exception, we ask that the completion of the upper secondary school exams be decoupled from the conditions of graduation. In essence, this means that state examinations become voluntary. I fully understand that it is very important for students and schools to know when and under what conditions this year will be completed. The first state exam is in less than a month. On 19 April, the state examination of Estonian should take place. This concerns 7,000 young people from 158 different schools. Although the organisation of the examination is by its very nature a very strictly regulated activity, I also asked the scientific council to assess whether the organisation of the examination on 19 April was an activity with a high risk of infection in today's knowledge. According to the Scientific Advisory Board, exams could be conducted if the situation does not get worse than today. And, of course, using all the safety requirements, dispersing, wearing masks, airing rooms, disinfecting hands. And we've offered every member of the exam board and the external evaluators a chance to get the first dose of the vaccine. The Scientific Panel also recommended considering the possibility of rapid testing of the examiners before the exam, and this would certainly reduce the risk of infection, so that if there were a positive outcome among the examiners, we would identify him before the exam. Secondly, it also provides an opportunity to provide an immediate next exam time for the person who is infected. And we're definitely considering whether to use speed tests on graduates this year. After the state examination of the Estonian language, the second language of the Estonian language combined with the B2 exam is the written and oral examination, and it affects a little more than 2700 young people. In May two exams have been planned, at the beginning of May an English State Examination, by 4500 young people and at the end of May the mathematics exam, which total, then both broad and narrow mathematics will be passed by 9000 young people. Today we have already postponed the Cambridge International English Examination and also the French International Examination. There was no need to amend the law to postpone these exams. These exams would otherwise have had to take place by the end of March. If Parliament gives permission and the situation allows, with today's knowledge, we would only change the time of the State Examination of English. Today, a written English state examination is scheduled for May 3rd. This we would postpone to May 7th and the oral exam 10/13. May. All these exam dates apply to today's knowledge. If the situation gets worse, we also need to change the timing of the examination and, if necessary, untie the results of the exams. I have consulted several school leaders who have assured me that they have a good experience last year in organising exams under COVID conditions. They have said that, given all safety requirements, they are, of course, ready to do so this year as well. In addition to the organisation of state examinations, we ask Parliament to allow us, like last year, to use verbal assessments at all levels of school during this academic year, as well as assessments taken into account and not taken into account. This is what several school leaders have asked us to do. As this is a time-critical draft, I would ask Parliament to deal with this draft as soon as possible. Thank you for listening and I am happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U9	Thank you. You also have questions for Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U10	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, Indeed, given the extraordinarily high figures for the infectious factor in the country, very many parents and school teachers say that this year the state exams could be canceled or at least they could be voluntary and unfinished. What are you gonna tell those parents and a lot of schoolteachers who think that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U11	First of all, in middle school, exams are unbound with graduation conditions. As we know, the threshold for passing the comprehensive school finals is quite high, and that is why we decided that this year they will be exempt from the conditions of graduation, but the exams will still be compulsory. In the case of upper secondary school graduates, it is necessary to complete the examination at least by obtaining at least one point. And I believe that for this one point everyone is capable of. I understand, of course, that if something is mandatory, it will in itself cause more stress. For example, last year, when upper secondary school finals were also voluntary, there were quite a lot of real quitters, there were almost 40% quitters on the mathematics exam. We would not want such a huge gap of assessment on the basis of common tasks this year. Today, too, it is actually important for the state to have an overview of the results of this distance learning, so that we can also provide additional support to those moving to the next stages of school to fill these learning gaps.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U12	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U13	Dear Minister, Indeed, there is such a déjà-vu feeling. In fact, a year ago we were dealing with a similar bill, and at that point this crisis was unprecedented, something that we have never dealt with before. This year we already have a year's experience and the fact that we are dealing with a similar draft means that during the year, HTM may not have managed well enough to deal with this situation. Maybe that gives room for some criticism. But my question has nothing to do with how or who to blame in this situation, I'd rather ask you what you're going to do in the summer, which is what you're taking with you as an experience.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U14	Thank you. As you know very well, Viktoria, last year the Minister of Education and Science asked for a mandate for two years for similar changes. At the time, Parliament did not give him such a two-year mandate; the government was able to introduce these amendments for one year. That is why I had to come to you again today to ask for this amendment. In this sense, I agree with the criticism that, as far as education is concerned, the summer was really missed. In fact, last summer, plans and actions could have been made to make our schools safer, for example, to deal with ventilation issues, such as providing schools with CO2 sensors, if they were unable to build ventilation, to introduce as safe as possible school arrangements. This could have been done, and as far as the exams are concerned, it is certainly very important in this new situation to consider whether we could also take the national examinations electronically. As for example, uniform entrance tests have now been carried out in upper secondary schools. These are all electronic, and today's technology already provides very safe measures to identify the person who is taking the exam. So this could have been done sooner.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U15	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, You have to think positive, of course, but you have to be prepared for a darker scenario. In the event that the epidemiological situation still does not improve and exams may not be conducted, perhaps they will not take place, please explain your logic to me. You said that in that case they would become volunteers, maybe just a glitch in your tongue. But I'm actually wondering what happens to college admissions. The explanatory memorandum says that some Estonian universities will be able to take their own entrance exams this year if state exams cannot be taken into account, but not all universities and certainly not foreign universities. And what about those who do not want to go to college this year, who want to do it next year or the next year? What message is there for those graduates who, because of the restrictions imposed by the state, are unable to take the exams this year at all? What about these further studies? Unfortunately, the explanatory memorandum does not provide an exhaustive answer to this question either.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U17	Thank you for your question. Firstly, of course, we must also be prepared for the deterioration of the situation. And it is possible to postpone this state examination of the Estonian language to 30 April, for example, and then it is appreciated that we will be able, with very great effort, to make the examination public by 18 June. It's very risky, that's exactly the time when schools would like to do their graduations and share their testimony. After all, our goal is to have all the test results known by then. But if additional restrictions are imposed and we cannot organise the exams at this point, then we should see when these exams can be conducted. If this happens, it's very difficult for me to say in advance that we can do it for a while. It'll probably stay in the fall. However, current forecasts do not foresee such a situation. Today's projections foresee a quiet but still improved situation. So let's just hope that the exams can still take place. And we know that taking state examinations really is a prerequisite in a lot of disciplines in universities to apply. It is important that young people can pass these exams in such a time frame that they can apply properly to universities, including international universities. It is also a very serious concern that they could be done at that time so that all young people could apply.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U18	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U19	Dear Minister, Contrary to the previous question, I would rather make it clear that, as far as this bill is concerned, we will rather give you insurance papers, or the current situation will continue exactly as it had been introduced, just that with this bill we will promise you if the situation gets critical, that is to say, to change the standards that we have now established. In the sense that this bill certainly does not automatically bring about any changes, including with regard to exams. That's the first thing. And the other one. However, please specify once again that there will be no date changes in the Estonian language exam in April, for example, but in the English language that will take place in May. Why is the English exam being passed? I'm still asking for clarification!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U20	Thank you. As I said in my speech, we plan to postpone the English exam for a few days because we were forced to postpone the Cambridge International English exam and the French exam so that the intervals between these exams would be suitable for the students. It is such a decent chess to get these dates right so that it is appropriate for young people to have enough days between these exams. Of course, this bill gives us a guarantee that, if the situation gets worse, we can take certain steps, and with today's knowledge, as I said in my speech, we would go on exams on predetermined dates, except for the English State Examination, but with the rest of the dates in current knowledge we will stick with them.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U21	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U22	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, My question relates to the fact that our good colleague, Viktoria Ladynskaya-Kubits, asked the question and then you went smoothly to school health requirements. And I have a question about a super-dangerous noble gas like radon. Health requirements have been established for upper secondary schools with a limit in terms of radon content in the air. There may be up to 200 becreels in the interior air of the school. But what's interesting is that in Järvamaa Paide state gymnasium construction, a state gymnasium based on residential and industrial building requirements is built, or 300 bekrelli. Please explain how this thing is allowed!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U23	I admit that I am not familiar with this issue and I cannot answer that question. In any case, indeed, school environments are very regulated environments, and if there is anything wrong with it, it must be dealt with. I have recently dealt with CO2 levels in school rooms, which in very many cases are above the norm and are not only dangerous in terms of the spread of the virus, but this clearly also affects children's learning outcomes based on studies. But as far as radon is concerned, I am indebted to the answer here, ask my fellow Members to examine it and I will give you the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U24	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U25	Good manager, good minister! You indicated that your pre-Minister has failed to do a lot of things in the summer or before. A little openings, what has he failed to do? And the second question is, by what do you determine whether these exams are going to take place, well the mother tongue here on April 19th or at any other time, is there anything to do with this r term with this coefficient? What does it matter what meter is there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U26	Thank you. I'll start at the end that, first of all, these dates that apply today have been set last August. The law requires that these dates be proposed for a very long time, that they have not been established in the near future. And as far as possible delays in exams are concerned, as I referred to in my speech, we will certainly consult with the Scientific Advisory Board on this issue. As is the case with the current decision, even if Parliament gives us the power to do so, we will not, with the current knowledge, reject the exam on 19 April. But if the situation gets worse and the scientific council appreciates that it is still not safe to conduct these exams, then we will postpone them. But in general, yeah, if you could get a r down one, you could feel a little safer. With regard to last year, I understand that during the summer people were tired as well as the expectation that things would get better, but to be wise as a result, we could have dealt with making the school environment safer. I told you before, getting CO2 sensors into classrooms, improving ventilation, etc. And also the electronicisation of exams, it's a very long-term process, but it could have started. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U27	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Secretary! By continuing the dialogue between me and Viktoria, which goes through you, please confirm to us that this bill will allow the Ministry of Education to postpone the exams and will allow them not to be organised at all, in which case all upper secondary school graduates would also receive upper secondary school education. But the question I would like to ask you, in addition, is the preparatory courses or auxiliary courses that are currently being offered to the gymnasts. As we know for a long time, they are offered only in Estonian and only to students who acquire education in 100% Estonian. For those who study according to the so-called 60:40 model and study these subjects with exams in Russian, no courses will be conducted. Now, in the last few weeks, have you found any solution to this problem in order to provide support for these graduates so that they too can properly take their exams if these exams take place this spring?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U29	Thank you. Yes, in the Committee on Culture we had this subject up, and actually my ladies and gentlemen also communicated with the University of Tartu after that. Unfortunately, we have to admit that we really do not now have the capacity to offer these courses in the spring, but I understand that although this does not help today's graduates, in any case, they will try to prepare such a course in the future. That's the deal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U30	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U31	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! After all, consultations are an integral part of the exams. And when we see that students are in distance learning, they have knowledge gaps and, of course, they would also like to consult. But I guess these consultations are still going to be one for one. Is and how has the Ministry of Education and Research provided for these consultations when the exams take place? And the other part of the question is whether there are funds in the budget for this, because it is an additional burden for teachers, because obviously distance learning has a much greater need for this consultation than it would have been in ordinary training. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U32	Thank you. It is quite correct to point out that consultation is really necessary and that is why the government has left the exception that consultations can be conducted in the schoolhouse and in small groups, scattered. Depends on the size of the room, the safety requirements must all be met, the mask must be given, all these normal rules. But yes, consultations, including pre-trial consultations, may be conducted at school in small groups.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U33	Kalle Grünthal!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U34	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I would perhaps like to clarify my own case of radon because radon comes from a natural radioactive breakdown, and if it gets into a schoolhouse or let's say, by inhalation of this radon-rich air, there is an increased risk of lung cancer, and the question now is that the state gymnasium is being built in Paide and, in my opinion, the local circumstances are not being followed at the moment by the requirements that have been imposed on schools. Can I count on you to be extremely sincere and appear that if this threat really exists, you will shut it down and prevent this radon nest from happening?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U35	Thank you. I very much believe that all the necessary health measures will be followed when building schools, but, as I said to the previous question, in answering your question, I am not familiar with this issue. I'll look into it and let you know what it looks like in our view.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U36	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U37	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! My high school graduation time then remained in the previous millennium and he actually took place then at an education or some adult school he was. And what we had at the time was that it was announced that those with some kind of health problems would only bring a medical certificate and that they would get a "average grade" by some kind of calculation. Whether or not today, let's say, there is such a calculation, if, for example, a student does not want, for example, a maximum score, but it is in the calculation of such an average that he is found to have passed the exam. Because today we know that the law on the organisation of the upper secondary school exam is that it is enough for you to go and one percent know that the exam has already been actually passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U38	Thank you. You actually answered your own question. Really, one point is enough to pass the final exam at upper secondary school. I believe that this is not too much for a young person who has studied in upper secondary school for three years, that it has rather been discussed whether this one point is appropriate. So you have to take an exam to finish high school, but this threshold is very low.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U39	Peter Rahnel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U40	I'd ask you that, right now, listening to your explanation for taking the exam. If the threshold is only one point, does the test make sense as such? And the second question is: Is it known how much money would be needed to build ventilation in any school? The CO2 sensor, yes, he's giving us something, but he's not gonna compensate for the ventilation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U41	Thank you. The subject of examinations is indeed a topic that has been very much discussed in the field of education. And I believe that these discussions will continue, but right now, in a crisis situation, I would limit myself to this academic year. These changes also, which we are asking for in this bill, concern only the current academic year. As far as ventilation is concerned, I, the school leaders and the representatives of the school managers, the representatives of local governments had a meeting with various scientists who introduced us to different ways of making schools safer. And there were ventilation experts, mask experts, rapid testing experts. And indeed, according to the Technical Surveillance Authority, the construction register has made an overview of how many schools we have with natural ventilation. There are over 700 of these school buildings. True, it is based on the building register, which means that not all of these houses have a study. And we want to get a real picture of how much we really have in cooperation with local governments and where there are those school buildings that need to renovate or renovate ventilation. And it's really very expensive. The Technical Surveillance Authority has estimated that if half of these schools needed renovation, the investment needs would be 350 million. So we certainly will not do this quickly here during the crisis, because they have also estimated that this renovation of ventilation can take a year and a half to complete the project. So this is definitely a subject that needs to be dealt with further, and working with schoolteachers. This is important, but it is certainly not such a rapid crisis measure. At the same time, once again, it is CO2 sensors that provide an operational signal when air quality has become poor, so that even windows can be opened, that is a quick and actually effective measure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U42	Thank you. No further questions. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, Member of the Committee on Culture. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U43	Thank you. Honourable Riigikogu! You have before you the draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, number 349 SE. If you introduce it briefly, the draft states that the final exams in upper secondary school will not exceptionally be a condition for graduation this year if, due to restrictions on freedom of movement imposed by the Government of the Republic, it is not possible to conduct the final exams within a reasonable period of time. In addition, the draft will provide for the possibility to postpone the examination as necessary and to provide for additional examination periods. The change is necessary due to the situation caused by the COVID-19 epidemic. The Committee on Culture addressed this issue, a draft on Tuesday 16 March. The manager at the time was Jaak White, the vice-chairman of our Committee on Culture. Mr Black, Chairman of the Committee on Culture, was absent. The following members of the Commission took part in the meeting: Helle-Moonika Helme, Signe Kivi, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, Eduard Odines, Heidy Purga, Margit Sutrop, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi and Marko Šorin. Commission officials Urvo Klopets, Adviser, and Carina Rikart, Adviser, and invited Minister Liina Kersna and Head of the Foreign Evaluation Department of the Ministry of Education and Research Kristin Hollo. Okay. At first then, at the beginning of the debate Liina Kersna as Minister introduced what are the main principles of the draft. In short, first of all, to empower the government, if necessary, to change the periods of exams that have already been approved today. Secondly, to empower the government to set the time limits for the additional exams of the state. Thirdly, if the Government of the Republic were to impose additional restrictions on movement, then it would be in this academic year that the examination results could be decoupled from the conditions for graduating from school. Once again, I stress that, according to current forecasts, there is no need for this, but, just in case, we are giving the opportunity to do so by means of this draft law. And fourthly, at all levels of school, including upper secondary school, the possibility of using a descriptive verbal assessment which does not need to be converted into a five-ball rating scale. And again, just this year. Then the members of the Committee on Culture had questions. Eduard Odines started by asking if the draft should be dealt with urgently so that it would enter into force as soon as possible. Indeed, Liina Kersna replied, as she said here today at the beginning of the discussion, asking for the draft to be dealt with as soon as possible in the light of Parliament's practices. Further, Eduard Odines said that verbal and numerical assessments are part of the evaluation guidelines of each school and, if schools wish to take advantage of this opportunity, this requires an amendment to the evaluation guide, which is a time-consuming process of coordination. Odines asked whether this would not be more of a hindrance to the opportunity offered. Liina Kersna replied that, under the current Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, verbal assessments could be made until the end of the second grade of primary school. After that, verbal assessments must be converted into numerical grades. Kersna said that according to the bill, it would no longer have to be done. Once again, it is only this year. Then there were a few technical questions related exactly to the subject of this numerical assessment. After that, the questions had to do with a slightly different subject, which, although not directly related to this draft text, still, since the Minister mentioned during the debate that, in cooperation with the universities, the courses of repetition are open to graduates to state examinations, which are extremely popular, some members of the Committee on Culture wanted to clarify precisely this topic during the debate. And so Kristina Šmigun-Vähi asked whether there were preparatory courses for exams prepared by universities for young Russian-speaking students. And Liina Kersna just as she said at the moment that there are no courses as the second language of Estonian. Margit Sutrop continued this topic and specified whether universities would receive additional funding for preparing courses. Liina Kersna replied that universities would receive additional funding and that the course budget would be EUR 400000. Signe Kivi explained how students who are in trouble at distance training would be assisted. Liina Kersna replied that there are exceptions to digital learning for students in need. The opportunity is to meet the teacher at school and get a consultation. The Ministry of Education and Research organises training camps with additional budget in summer, combining entertainment, improving learning skills, and also leveling out learning gaps. In addition, different courses will be offered to students in the autumn to help them catch up. And there were two other issues that are directly related to this draft. I asked that Parliament dealt with a similar draft during last year's crisis and asked what the Ministry could have done in the meantime in order not to get into the same point. Liina Kersna admitted that she agrees with criticism, most upper secondary school entrance tests are digital, facial recognition programs are used and so on. The fact is that the state exams have not been digitalised and proposed to discuss this subject with the Commission in the future. The Minister added that the draft could also have come to Parliament a few weeks earlier if it had been better able to anticipate the risks. And my second question was about verbal evaluation, namely verbal evaluation, a major debate that I think should come up with separately. I asked how verbal evaluation is linked to the crisis and why it should be seen as a point of this draft in the context of the crisis. Ms Kersna replied that this was also a time-limited point and that the proposal was in the draft, as this amendment was also introduced last year. The situation in schools is tense and the schools themselves have assessed that verbal assessment helps to alleviate this pressure. Some students are lagging behind in their studies, and their motivation is difficult to maintain. The Ministry of Education and Research wants students to stay in the education system and we will help them as personally as possible. These students are much harder to help and later find if they are not in the education system. The Minister added that the verbal assessment is nothing worse than a numerical assessment and that it is a request from schools to make the evaluation of the results of distance learning more flexible. This is not an obligation, it is an opportunity. Finally, Mr Valge proposed to appoint me as the representative of the commission, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda today, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be five working days, i.e. we are essentially waiting until the next Wednesday, and then five o'clock is the right deadline. And all the decisions were consensual.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U44	Good waitress, thank you very much. There are no questions. Now van negotiations, the floor of the Central Party Group will be heard. Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U45	Hello! Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. We are discussing the issue of our common future here, but we did not escape the past either. That's why I'm also a little reminded of last spring when the corona virus was new for all of us and we didn't know what the future was going to be. However, even then, the Minister of Education and Research Mailis Reps went to the Riigikogu to ask for permission to obtain the right to change examinations for two years. Unfortunately, at that time, Parliament did not grant him this right, which is why the new Minister of Education and Science, Liina Kersna, had to come to Parliament again. We wanted or did not want to, we once again talked about the past, why in the summer the CO2 sensors were not installed in schools or ventilation was not improved. It is a little strange in itself to say here that why the Minister of Education did something last year, when, in the spring, even Parliament did not believe that such an emergency would need to be resolved again in a year's time. Schoolkeepers are primarily local authorities. And as the Minister himself mentioned, local authorities, specialists and representatives of the ministry found that the construction of ventilation is enormously expensive and certainly cannot take place quickly. In this sense it was also perhaps not a suitable example here, pointing to the questions of education ministers. However, in order not to give a negative impression here, the Centre Party Group supports this draft and wants Estonians, as a people of the faith in education, to be able to continue their education. Of course, we have an emergency situation, we need to think about new solutions outside the box. Finally, I would like to say that the Central Party Group is in favour of this draft being dealt with in the Riigikogu as a matter of urgency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U46	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The commission has proposed that draft 349 SE be closed at first reading. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 31 March at 5 p.m. That concludes the first reading and concludes the 10th item.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U47	We are moving forward at a good pace to the 11th item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Organisation of the Fisheries Market and the Law amending the Penal Register 310 SE, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and here is the floor of the Minister for Rural Affairs, Urmas Kruuse. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U48	Members of the Riigikogu! Let me introduce the draft law amending the Fisheries Market Organisation Act and the Penal Register Act drawn up by the Ministry of Rural Affairs. The main objective of this draft is to give more equal treatment to persons engaged in commercial fishing at sea and on inland waterways, on the basis of support from the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund (EMFF). This concerns the non-granting of persons who have committed serious infringements of fishing activities within 12 months of the date of entry into force of the Environmental Board's decision to impose a penalty for the infringement. As a result of the European Union's regulations, which apply only to fishing at sea, today is a situation where fishing requirements are serious...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U49	Minister, I apologize for a moment. Is there a sound problem in the hall? Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U50	Thank you, Mr President. I mean, I'm really saying it's an extremely bad pot coming from there. To enable the Minister to speak more clearly or closer to the microphone, so that the sound can be understood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U51	Thank you. Let's all try to do a little better. Please, Minister for Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse, you have the floor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U52	Is that better? [[???Juhataja: 'Jah, läheme edasi!'???]] And, as I said, the situation is that, in order to harmonise the treatment of persons engaged in commercial fishing at sea and on inland waterways in a more equal manner, precisely on the basis of the related infringements, we are creating a situation where persons who have committed similar infringements in professional fishing both at sea and on inland waterways are not eligible for support. As has already been said, usually 12 months from the date of entry into force of the sentence, i.e. the entry in the criminal record. However, certain differences in the limitation of aid to inland waters and sea remain. This is due to the infringement point system established by the European Union Regulation, which applies only to persons fishing at sea. We believe that such a system is complex and bureaucratic and therefore does not want to be implemented on inland waterways. We have also tried to strike a balance and equal treatment between maritime and inland waters on the basis of comparability of penalties. The draft also provides for a refusal to grant aid within 24 months of the date of entry into force of the conviction for crimes and infringements relating to false declarations, the use of documents relating to fishing or the use of falsified documents or environmental damage to fish and water resources. There was still no provision for refusing support for such crimes, nor do European Union regulations, but in our view there is no justification for treating persons who committed crimes less favourably than those who have committed a misdemeanour. Then an amendment to the Penal Register Act is necessary to give legal meaning to the data deleted from the register and entered in the archives when granting the EMFF grants and when carrying out national supervision. In addition, the draft amends certain provisions of the Fisheries Market Organisation Act, the need for which has emerged from the experience of the implementation of the Fund so far that administrative burdens can be reduced in the implementation of the Fund. And these amendments can rather be classified in relation to changes of a technical nature. And that is why I have the proposal to approve this draft for the honourable Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U53	Thank you. Any questions for the Minister? No, it's not. Let's keep going. Thank you. Let's move on from here to Kaido Höökelson, Member of the Committee on Rural Affairs on this agenda. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U54	Hi! Am I hearing this? Yeah. Dear Chairman, Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The draft law amending the Fisheries Market Organisation Act and the Penal Register Act (310 SE) initiated by the Government of the Republic was discussed in the Committee on Rural Affairs on 15 March 2021. The debate was attended by the Minister for Rural Affairs, Urmas Kruuse, the Minister's Adviser, Evelin Oras, Siim Tiidemann, Deputy Secretary-General for Fisheries Policy and External Relations of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, Ain Finland, Head of the Fisheries Management Department and Geir Veski, Head of the Legal Department, and Karina Torop, Head of the same department. Since the Minister has already taken stock of the draft law, I am not going to go over it again, but I am going to take a small look at the debate that took place in the Committee on Rural Affairs. First of all, the Minister of Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse gave an overview of the draft Act amending the Law on the Organisation of the Fisheries Market and the Penal Register Act (310 SE) initiated by the Government of the Republic. He pointed out that the purpose of the draft was equal treatment of persons engaged in commercial fishing on inland waterways when granting the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund (EMFF). Ain Finland, Head of the Fish Economy Department, introduced changes to the draft. He noted that the current EU regulation regulates fishing at sea, but it is Estonia's wish to extend the resolution to fishing in inland waters. Ain Finland presented the technical amendments to the draft concerning the extension of the allocation period provided for in the EMFF Community-led local development support measure for the evaluation of applications for EMFF support, the establishment of a ranking and the granting of State aid. Then the questions of the Members of the Commission followed. First of all, the chairman of the committee, Tarmo Tamm, took an interest in the regulations in force on inland waterways. Ain Finland stated that so far there was no basis for non-granting when a professional fisherman committed a serious infringement in fishing on the inland waterway. European Union rules apply only to fishing at sea. Vice-Chairman of the Commission... how to classify the expression 'inadmissibility of an aid application'. Ain Finland replied that no one could be deprived of the right to apply for aid. However, if a professional fisherman has committed serious infringements, there must be a possibility that his aid application will not be accepted. I asked who was going to keep the criminal record and where the point system came from. Ain Finland replied that it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice to keep the criminal record and that the Agricultural Registers and Information Authority, or the PRIA, is already receiving data from it. Commissioner Andrus's seed asked what was a serious violation. Ain Finland replied that the list of serious infringements is contained in a European Union regulation. The list can also be found in the draft explanatory memorandum. Yeah, in the explanatory memorandum. Okay. That concludes the debate. Procedural decisions were taken by the Commission. Firstly, to propose a draft 310 on the agenda of the plenary session 24.03 today is 25.03 inclusive. Secondly, propose that draft 310 SE be closed at first reading. And thirdly, appoint a member of the Rural Commission, Kaido Höökelson, as rapporteur for Bill 310. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U55	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions too. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U56	Thank you, manager. Good performer! In the shadow of the night, dealing with their criminal catalog is the right place. But I see that there are quite a lot of things in that catalogue, here without permission he catches and moratorium under the catch and transhipment of fish stocks secretly and the name of the vessel forgery and the use of a vessel that does not belong to any country. Open up a little bit of this background to the whole serious breach directory that these are most important.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U57	First of all, certainly the failure to comply with the obligations relating to the submission of catch data, the use of prohibited or non-compliant gear and the taking on board, transhipment or landing of undersized fish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U58	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! We are talking about the organisation of the fisheries market and so on. But the question is, let's say that there are latika fishing in Estonia by the Emajõgi River. A huge amount of complaints have been received from local men that the Latvian invasion of the Emajõgi River is, in principle, such that they move, I might say, hundreds of tons of bats away, i.e. they are no longer recreational fishing, but they are industrial fishing, where the harvest is realised on the local market. I've been with the inspectors once on a raid, and within 200 meters, there were some five violations. Are you also going to do something to ensure that such industrial fishing ends in Estonia under the name of recreational fishing?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U60	Yes, thank you to the questioner! This was not discussed at the Commission's meeting, but certainly when this draft becomes a law, the same infringements apply to all those in the inland waters with both handlines and nets. It does not matter whether he is Estonian, Latvian, Lithuanian or Finn.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U61	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U62	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress! I have this question that once before, we had these fish inspectors and then, when they noticed that there had been a robbery or something, they used to confiscate all this property on the ground. Do they still have this opportunity today, and what about those fish that have been confiscated, so that, of course, there would be an evil herd if it just went for fox food, were they given to food aid, for example, or whatever, and what solutions are there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U63	Thank you for your question. Of course, we didn't discuss it in the committee, but, as far as I know, environmental officials are checking, constantly checking rivers, lakes. If there is a withdrawal period, fish should not be caught if there are fishers caught by an environmental inspector during the withdrawal period, the fine shall be according to the size and size of the fish. I hope I answered your question in part, at least. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U64	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U65	Thank you, President of the sitting. Dear waitress, Is such sanctioning, I understand more broadly than purely national, justified primarily because of so many infringements? In the field of forestry or in the field of agriculture, I do not know that there would be a directive-based transfer of this practice to Estonia in Europe at large. Does this have to do with the fact that the infringements are such a big problem and we really can't contain them?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U66	Thank you for that question. There are certainly those who engage in professional fishing both at sea and on inland waterways. There are between 30 and 40 offenders who cannot apply for this support over a period of about a year. It is reasonable, in my opinion, that all fishermen feel equally before the law that they should apply to inland waters.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U67	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U68	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In your first reply to me, I immediately realized that you are not a special fisherman, but since you are a member of the Committee on Rural Affairs, you might be able to stand up for a fish resource that grows and develops and is caught in Estonia and goes to the local market. The question is, the same thing, I don't remember whether it was 1 euro or more, but it doesn't matter, the order of magnitude is this, then the Latvian and Estonian will redeem this ticket and catch unlimited amounts. This is about the unlimited amount of fishing that will be realised in Latvia. My proposal would be that perhaps you take the matter of your heart, because you are a member of the Committee on Rural Affairs, Mr Kaido Hööölson, that a certain limit will be set for the fishing of Latina in its spawning season or this season. This would be a very big favor for Estonian fishermen.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U69	Thank you, good questioner! You also have the opportunity to propose this proposal to the Committee on Rural Affairs. We did not have this debate in the Committee on Rural Affairs, who is a harder fisherman or who is a hunter.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U70	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U71	Good manager! Good waitress! I read in the explanatory memorandum that there are actually very, very few of those who go under this law. Four cases a year on our entire marine waters and four on inland waterways. My question is, are there so few? Or another thing, if we now adopt this law, the inspectors will also be motivated to take their legs out of their belly and then they can come at sea, either on 40 inland waterways or, in any case, more than they do now. Or has nothing to do with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U72	Thank you for your question. In fact, I asked Ain Finland, Head of the Fisheries Department, specifically how many people could not apply for this support from the EMFF during this year. And his argument was that there are 30 to 40, not 3.4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U73	Tarmo Kruusimäe!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U74	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress! I hear there's only 30 to 40 of them, but we're all used to never believing a fisherman's story that fishermen are the biggest whales, let's say after the pioneers. How, then, have other fishermen been telling their own lies or have not simply been identified that we are perhaps talking about the top of the iceberg, but maybe the real problem is under the water. For example, have the fishermen perhaps been engaged in fishing by scuba and telling the inspectors themselves that we fish, leave us alone?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U75	Thank you for your question. Surely there are many fishermen who are very difficult or difficult to catch in action. But since environmental inspectors already have very, very long experience with loading, landing, catching, misreporting of even undersized fish, where, like these lawyers, they do so in their best interests, they do so. Then the fishing boat hides its own fish that cannot be made, etc. Certainly this is a problem and, as you even mentioned, it may be the top of the iceberg, but I believe that environmental officials or controls control as much as possible and as much as they have human resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U76	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U77	My second question now concerns a legal person whose membership is a professional fisherman and who has set up cooperative activities and then belongs to that cooperative. And now that that member of the cooperative commits an infringement, does it automatically apply to the legal person in which it is actually a member of the cooperative, that that cooperative cannot then ask for support from certain measures? But such cooperatives can be very large fishermen who are professional fishermen.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U78	Thank you for your question. As far as I know, this sentence will apply only to this legal person, not to this association.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U79	Thank you, good waitress, no further questions. And now I'm looking forward to opening negotiations. Representatives of the political groups? No, I don't. Now we have to move on with the proposal of the lead committee. The proposal of the commission is to conclude the first reading of draft 310 SE. Let us set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 9 April at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 11th item is closed. Good fellows, that concludes our trial. Thank you, and who is here, then a safe way home, and who is already home, a peaceful sleep!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U80	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the 9th working week Thursday session of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the anniversary of the March deportation. To commemorate the victims, I propose that we begin our sitting with a minute's silence. Thank you. Let's get to the agenda. Is there a desire to hand over drafts or inquiries? Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U81	Thank you, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of the Socialists, I am handing over the proposal to amend the Health Insurance Act, which aims to put an end to the injustice, so that the mother or father who went to work after the parental benefit ended will receive compensation only on the minimum wage when he or she is staying at home with the sick child and taking care of the care sheet. The point is that 80% of the daily income paid to the insured for caring for the sick child is calculated on the basis of the social tax levied on income in the previous calendar year, but no matter what the amount of the parental benefit is, no social tax is levied. Thus, the minimum wage is currently the basis for settlement. But we all know that when a toddler gets used to kindergarten... [[The connection's breaking up.]] And I repeat that, according to our supplementary proposal, care benefits are paid according to parental benefit or, if a person on parental leave has earned a higher income and is subject to social tax in addition to parental pay, on that. In other words, compensation for the maintenance sheet should be more favourable to the family, and this means that 80% will be compensated, but calculated on a larger sum. The draft has been transmitted electronically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U82	Thank you. There is no further request for referral of drafts or enquiries. I have adopted one draft on behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, and the Management Board of the Riigikogu deals with it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu Act. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now conducting a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U83	94 Members of the Riigikogu signed up, missing 7.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U84	Okay, today's agenda. We have the second reading of the draft Act 294 on ratification of the agreement to amend and terminate the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the facilitation and protection of investments. I give the floor to Imre Sooääre, the rapporteur for the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U85	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Riigikogu! At its meeting on 15 March, the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft ratification of the agreement to amend and terminate the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the facilitation and protection of investments initiated on 7 December 2020. The first reading of the draft was concluded on 25 February, with no amendments tabled by 11 March. Representatives of all political groups were present, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs decided to propose to the Riigikogu Bureau that the draft 294 be placed on the plenary agenda for the second reading on Thursday, 25 March, to conclude the second reading and to hold the final vote. All the decisions were consensual. For information, Finland has already completed its national processes. Thank you. Please support the bill!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U86	Thank you. Questions can be asked to the rapporteur. I don't see any questions. In that case, let's get to the negotiations. Members of the Riigikogu, representatives of committees and political groups can take the floor. There is no wish for negotiation. As no amendments to the draft have been received, we do not need to examine anything. This is an external agreement and provides for two readings. This means that we are going to have a final vote. Before the final vote, we shall make a call. Ladies and gentlemen, in the meantime, we have information that not all members of the Riigikogu have entered the electronic system. I'll do one presence check before we go to the vote. If it proves that people are still not getting into the system, we will take a break before the vote. Let's do the presence check first, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U87	The problem has not been solved. I'll take a four-minute break. I'll take another five-minute break. If we do not now have the [system] procedure, we will have to set up a voting committee from the political groups, in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Bureau. This requires at least one person from each political group to be physically in the Chamber, and it will also take us a little time to organise it. But let's wait, maybe we can find a technical solution. Five minutes break!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U88	If I may say anything, I had a hard time signing in, too. It helped when I shut down the web browser on Google Chrome and logged in again. Then at least I managed to get in, maybe it'll help someone else.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U89	Dear Riigikogu, we will now try one more time to control the presence. If the presence check reveals that the ambassador is unable to enter the system, we will proceed to a vote in the system and those people who cannot vote in the system will send their vote to virgats@riigikogu.ee. The votes shall then be verified by representatives from all political groups who shall form a ballot counting committee. Once we have counted the votes and added them to the votes of the electronic system, I can announce the result of the vote. It is important to remember that, when the vote is closed, your voice must be sent by e-mail within two minutes. Checking for presence first.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U90	91 ambassadors registered, 10 missing, and the ambassador who does not get in touch continues to be among the missing people. We are now going to the final vote. I will put to the final vote the draft Act 294 on ratification of the agreement on the amendment and termination of the agreement on the facilitation and protection of investments between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Republic of Finland initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic of Estonia. Please take a stand and vote. In accordance with the procedure agreed in the Riigikogu's Management Board, if it is clear that it is not possible to vote through the electronic voting system, please send your vote to virgats@riigikogu.ee in the next two minutes. In the next two minutes, please gather here at the board of the Riigikogu for all the representatives of the political groups to count the votes sent by e-mail. I would like one representative from each group to come to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-25_U91	Dear members of the Riigikogu, we have completed our voting procedure. 89 members of the Riigikogu participated in the electronic system, all 89 members of the Riigikogu were in favour. Two members of the Riigikogu participated in the e-mail, and they were in favour. In total, 91 members of the Riigikogu are in favour of the draft and there are no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been adopted. Thank you! The sitting is adjourned.
