ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the 15th working week Tuesday session of the V session of the Riigikogu. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. I don't see a wish like that. Then we'll do a presence check. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U2	88 ambassadors registered to be present.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U3	Today we have seven points on the agenda. The first item is the second reading of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the decision of the Riigikogu "Constitution of a Special Committee on Supervision of Security Authorities" submitted by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Centre Party. The rapporteur is Oudekki Loone, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U4	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Commission discussed this draft at its meeting on 11 May. By then, the first reading of the draft had taken place on 3 May and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 4 a.m. on 7 May. No amendments to the draft were received, so the Commission did not need to have a long discussion and we made procedural decisions. We decided by consensus to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 18 May, which is today, and similarly by consensus, we propose that the second reading of the draft be stopped and the final vote taken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U5	Thank you. It is also possible to ask questions. I don't see the question. Oh, it is. Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U6	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I asked this question when this bill was the first time in the Riigikogu, but unfortunately there was no answer. What about the definition of coalition and opposition? Did you discuss this issue in your committee, and did you reach a position on how to ensure legal clarity here, who or what might be called a coalition or opposition, if this matter is not defined anywhere, even in our law on home and working arrangements? What to do with those political groups or ambassadors who declare themselves "independent" or say that they are not members of either the opposition or the coalition? Or what if, for example, there is a minority government? Have you touched on this subject? What's it gonna be?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U7	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for your question. We did not discuss this in preparation for the second reading. Before the first reading, we briefly discussed. We also talked about this in this Chamber. The very legal details did not go into, because the general view was rather that it is obvious what is coalition and opposition. This is a political practice and we all understand this political practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U8	Well, I guess there's no more questions. Then we will be able to open negotiations. I guess there's no wish. As no amendments were tabled, we do not have to address the amendments. The commission has proposed a final vote on 334 OE. We'll do a hall call before that. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu, tabled by the Reform Party Group and the Central Party Group, amending the decision of the Riigikogu on the establishment of a Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U9	The decision is supported by 67 delegates, against 13. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U10	Let's go to the second item. This is also the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Estonian Reform Party Group and the Estonian Centre Party Group, No 336, on the amendment of the "Constitution of a Special Committee on State Budget Control." The rapporteur is again Oudekki Loone, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please, Oudekki!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U11	[[Remote connection]] Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was also discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 11 May. It went through the first reading in plenary on 3 May, as was the case with the previous one. The deadline for submitting amendments was 7 May at 4 p.m.; however, no amendments were tabled on the draft. Therefore, there was no reason for the Commission to open the debate and we took procedural decisions. These were: to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 18 May, including today (consensual decision), and to propose that the second reading of the draft be stopped and that the final vote on the draft be carried out (and that decision was also given by consensus). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U12	Thank you very much. Questions too. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U13	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good Oudekki! We know very precisely that the two committees of the Riigikogu, such as the Special Committee on State Budget Control and the Committee on Corruption, are primarily the tools of the opposition to investigate the activities of the government and all of it. I have a question for you, Oudekki. What do you think? If, from now on, there is an opposition minority in these committees and the coalition's advantage, how can the opposition do its work in this committee, given that it is very difficult for them to even get into the item on the agenda?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U14	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. We did not discuss this issue in the Commission either. But personally, I see that our current opposition is really very capable, and I think he's doing his job just as well as he's done so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U15	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U16	Thank you. Oudekki, as a politician, you said it was very easy to define a coalition and opposition. I remember that in 2009 Edgar Savisaar called for the formation of a government of specialists during the economic crisis. If we imagine that Parliament would have put in place a government of experts, how would you have defined Parliament if no parliamentary forces had sent their representatives? How would you have defined the opposition and the coalition? And my question is, therefore, that: in 2009, after leaving the Socialist Government, there was a minority government. Do you think the Greens supported the government's positions, the coalition, or the opposition?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U17	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much for this question. We addressed this issue of opposition and coalition before the first reading, and this issue was also addressed at first reading. The general position is this: according to the law of the Rules of Procedure and Homes of our Riigikogu, if no one belongs to any political group or can be directly defined, it is decided by the Board of the Riigikogu. And I think that in all such matters, the decision-making power is vested in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U18	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U19	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Vice President of the Riigikogu. Good Oudekki! The current opposition is very strong, and I'm not worried about today. But what happens when the Centre Party falls into opposition tomorrow? Then the opposition is very weak. I'm worried about the time. If we are creating this committee today, we will also look to the future. If weak political parties happen to the opposition, such as the Centre Party, what happens then?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U20	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. The Centre Party is a very strong government department, so I really believe that our people trust us and we are a government department for a very long time. But seeing how effective we have been in the opposition, I have no concern that the highly qualified members of the Central Party would not be able to control all the problems and cakes that gentlemen in the government could cook.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U21	I would point out that the survival of the government depends, not on the trust of the people, but on the trust of Parliament. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U22	It's not that simple, Oudekki. You indicated that this would be decided by Parliament's Bureau. I would, however, define the Centre Party as opposition, at least in the case of important decisions by this government. I've seen the Central Party protest against the loss of the Defence Forces Orchestra. And they actually have to put up with the decisions the government makes. I don't see such a clear line about that. But I still have a specific question. You said that Parliament's Bureau would determine, but while answering the previous question, you said very clearly that politicalism is to appoint a coalition and opposition. I repeat the question. How do you define the division of opposition and coalition from a politicalist's perspective when it comes to the government of so-called expert-specialists? And secondly, please answer the question of how you define where the Greens were, who themselves defined themselves as being in opposition, as I remember, in 2009. Were you in opposition or coalition? I would ask for answers to two specific questions when you say that it is extremely simple for Parliament's Bureau, such as sneezing to define the opposition and coalition.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U23	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Urmas, for this question and for reminding me of my specialty. But I would like to remind you that, at this point in time, I am the representative of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, who will give an overview of what we discussed in the committee. In the Commission, we touched on this issue. In the Commission's general discussion of this issue, there were indeed exceptions to the understanding that coalition and opposition are political practices. We generally understand what that means. In addition, in case of problems we have a decision-making body, it is the Board of the Riigikogu. And indeed, the Board of the Riigikogu must also be guided by the interpretation of political practice. So it was a debate that took place in the Commission. Certainly, Mr Colleagues, I am very happy to talk to you, give you political science lessons, or just sit and talk, but here is my role in giving an overview of how the Commission discussed this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U24	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Did the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also examine the effectiveness of parliamentary scrutiny for this particular committee? We know, for example, from the time of the previous government coalition, when the representatives of the government departments happened to be in the majority of this committee, that, in fact, parliamentary control in certain cases proved impossible. One member of the government did not come before the Commission, with the indication that there was actually no meeting of the Commission, because his allies in the government union from this Parliament did not appear there as a committee. Well, obviously, the question was very important and topical, it was about spending public money, but it was not really possible to carry out effective parliamentary scrutiny. Does this specific draft in this context, in your opinion, improve the possibilities for parliamentary scrutiny or worsen it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U26	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for that question. We discussed very briefly how the work of these committees could be made more effective or better. However, there were no very fundamental differences; rather, it was a question of parliamentary practice, for example, how political groups could define people and how this could help. I myself proposed that, for example, any Member or any political group in the Commission should have the right of veto. This would certainly improve the opportunity for all political groups to participate. But there was no very long debate about this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U27	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U28	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! You stated that we have a strong opposition and that the Central Party government is strong and that there does not seem to be much trouble if the opposition and coalition are equally represented in the Special Committee on Anti-Corruption and the Special Committee on Budget Control. But if that is the case, could we perhaps also seek such a balance in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and, for example, discuss the budget under conditions where opposition representation in the Committee on Monetary Affairs is as high as that of the coalition? I see that the possibilities for the opposition to influence the budget would then be much better, much bigger, and I would support such a proposal. Similarly, I see that the role of the opposition in controlling the budget and in parliamentary supervision is getting worse because of the proposal you presented. As you support this proposal, which you are presenting, I ask: could such parity also be applied in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U29	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for this very interesting proposal. If you present it, I think that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will take it very seriously and will certainly discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U30	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I did not understand, frankly, that you did not answer my question as to whether parliamentary scrutiny would improve or deteriorate as a result of this proposal. You said something about the veto rights of the political groups. Can you explain that a little bit? I didn't read those words out of this bill, but maybe I missed something. After all, the question is how to resolve the situation in which the government union agrees that they do not want to have an uncomfortable subject, well, it is a corruption-related issue, or simply a topic related to the misuse of money, to be discussed in committee. In such a situation, how will this Commission be able to carry out parliamentary scrutiny?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U32	Thank you. As I said, in this wording the Commission did not discuss, let us say, essentially the effectiveness of parliamentary scrutiny, but we found it democratically fair for the opposition and coalition to have equal representation, because it provides sufficient efficiency to work on these committees.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U33	Very exciting, we have a procedural question. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U34	Thank you. As the rapporteur indicated that the responsibility of the board of the Riigikogu is to define the coalition and opposition, and as miraculously we also have a member of the board appeared in the hall, I would ask that as the centre of competence is the management board and the session is chaired by a member of the management board, so that the member of the management board would define the division between the opposition and the coalition in the case of the government of specialists, from which the board would begin. And the second question I have is specifically for the President of the Riigikogu as a member of the board: how would you have interpreted this Green question? In the current situation, we need to be clear about this so that there is no lack of competence, because there are some things that have emerged here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U35	Thank you. I'm about to feel a sense of responsibility weighing me down right now. At this point, of course, the Riigikogu has done its job for the full amount of money. I would still define it as those ambassadors who hold the government in power being a coalition, whether these members of the government are members of a political party or specialists. Those who hold the government in power, perhaps by not allowing the government to fall by a vote of confidence or by some kind of callback, are the coalition, or the ambassadors of the power union. This, of course, means that the Greens actually supported the government at that time. That's my humble opinion. Of course, the Bureau has not discussed this issue. And I am, of course, a representative of the opposition on the board. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U36	Thank you. Well, just one line about a recent response. I see that the EKRE is very peaceful today and supports the Coalition's proposal. I guess the EKRE has gone over the coalition. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] But my question is for the waitress. You said that it is democratically fair that there is a balance in the special committees that we are now discussing. I will still come to this and ask what would be the case with permanent committees. Is it undemocratically unfair?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U37	No, our permanent committees are absolutely democratic, too, and I believe that they are also honest.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U38	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U39	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, We have now reached such a liberal orwelllike world that I realized that I am also a member of the coalition. This is what the representative of the Fatherland referred to just a moment ago in his speech. Because yesterday we had two completely incompetent ministers here, the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Defence, I appeal to the current coalition: to rename me Minister of the Interior to clear up all the confusion that the current Minister of the Interior has caused.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U40	Thank you for this very interesting proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U41	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U42	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. I wanted to ask, honourable waitress, whether Estonia's practice of concluding a coalition agreement so that it is signed either by a political group chairman or by members of the coalition, could be the basis on which a person himself understands that he is a member of the coalition, as well as by other members of the Riigikogu and the Estonian public to understand that if a person has signed a coalition agreement, he is a member of the coalition. Could it then be a clear sign that who is in the coalition and who is not in the coalition?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U43	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. This, too, is certainly one possible interpretation of how to define the opposition and coalition. We have not considered it necessary in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to enter these practices, these various common sense starting points, to which the vice-president of the Riigikogu referred here, into a separate law, because this is a regular issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U44	Urmas Reinsalu is a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U45	Yes, Mr President, this question was the result of your response, where you gave your interpretation that those in the coalition should be regarded as those holding the government in power. I suppose, in this sense, those who have supported either the formation of a government in the mandate of the Prime Minister or in the motion of censure will not take this government down, because at some point there is periodic mistrust. But I will move on from your political reasoning to the next question. In this case, how do you define the coalition and opposition in the case of a minority government? I would ask you specifically to answer the question of who you would consider to be in the coalition in the case of the Mart Siimann Government, which was a minority government. Secondly, even during the first government of Jüri Ratas, the majority of Parliament was at the end, at least when we are talking about the ministers of the coalition who were in the case of the political groups, in fact it was a minority government. And thirdly, Mr President, I would ask you to devote yourself to this line of reasoning, which is most important. The government of the Centre Party and the Reform Party was formed in the beginning of 2002. How, then, will you define the opposition?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U46	I am afraid that these were not procedural questions regarding the conduct of the sitting. We can discuss this, but I must admit that I no longer remember the exact division of the Riigikogu during the Siimann government. But what I was referring to was that neither the government can survive if it still does not have the support of the majority at critical moments in Parliament. Those who then support are the people of the power union. But I'm afraid if we start dissecting it here with such a pleasant tête-à-tête, we will not get far with our sitting today. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U47	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. I come back to this issue of democratic justice, which we are, as if, working on here to achieve. I have had the pleasure of participating in the work of both special committees during the previous government. At the time, the opposition did not have equal weight or majority. And it was relatively impossible to approve the agenda in many situations. I really do not see how the opposition will be able to exercise parliamentary supervision if the Commission cannot take any decisions, including deciding which issues will be dealt with, whether the agenda will be approved, etc. The principle of democratic justice should also be applied in permanent committees if such a regime is to be applied to special committees.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U48	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for your question. Once again: we did not discuss the issue of standing committees this time, if you propose it, we will discuss it. As far as democratic law is concerned again in special committees, it is indeed, as you refer to and as many refer to, the control committees. It is therefore very important that the opposition has a very clear voice and opportunity here. And such a solution, in order to make any decisions at all, must be agreed between the opposition and the coalition, in fact, guarantees the opportunity to work, guarantees the possibility of real control and continues to be democratic. I think this is a very good agreement, and indeed both the opposition and the coalition took part in its birth, and in that sense it is also democratic. This requires cooperation between the opposition and the coalition. And I think it will have a very, very good effect on our democracy.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U49	Well, it's not a full moon yet. Evgeny Ossinovski has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U50	No Siimann's government does not even have to go on track, in fact in the previous composition there was such a revolutionary political association in Estonia as "three sisters," one of whose member was Olga Ivanova, who was vice-chairman of a special committee. At one point, though, the story happened that he and the Centre Party had different views. How does the President interpret a situation where Olga Ivanova actually supported the government at critical moments and did not distrust the government, but the Centre Party said that she was no longer part of the coalition? Of course, there was no Olga Ivanova on the board, there were other people there. Is it really up to the group in whose ranks he has gotten to this Parliament, whether he belongs to the coalition or to the opposition? Or how is it supposed to work, exactly from the surface of this "three sister" movement?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U51	Yeah, well, it's not actually procedural again, but... It was procedural, and I have to take it, Oudekki. You don't even have to go to the last one. We also have ambassadors in this group who do not vote with their group or who have even left the group. Now whether they support the government or do not support the government is basically what we can classify them here. And that's it. Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U52	Thank you, good manager. Good Oudekki! My non-procedural question is actually based on the same question by Mr Ossinovski. In every Riigikogu we have also had so-called window-baths, i.e. ungrouped ambassadors. How, then, should they be dealt with? For example, if Raimond Kaljulaid decides to sign a coalition treaty, join the coalition, should he be treated as part of the coalition? Or in the context of this law, how would our good "windows" have been treated?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U53	Thank you for your question and thank you for your previous question. However, individual delegates come to committees because the group appoints its own representative. So this question, what happens when someone leaves the group, is again the agreement between this particular ambassador and the group. It may be that he goes away in such a way that the group calls him back from representing it and appoints a new representative. Members of the committees essentially come from the fact that they represent the views of the political groups. What about those who are actually politically divided? There are two ways. They may find some kind of political group that says yes, essentially he's actually working with us, and so we will present you as our representative. Then we don't have a problem. If an ambassador does not find a political group who would like to appoint him as a representative of a special committee, but does not belong to a political group, he will have the opportunity, as in the case of permanent committees, to address the board of the Riigikogu and ask to be appointed to the relevant committee. This is decided again by the Riigikogu Board, bearing in mind that the balance between opposition and coalition does not change.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U54	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U55	Thank you. My question is both substantive and procedural, so I ask the rapporteur and also the President of the sitting to answer. This question is not hypothetical, historical or academic, but very practical. It concerns the current situation and the future when we adopt this draft. In fact, the Social Democrats supported the taking-up of the government of Kaja Kallas and they also supported last week's draft, which was linked to the vote of confidence that the government would survive. From this, I conclude that the Social Democrats are, very clearly, representatives of the coalition by the definition of a member of the Governing Board at the moment, so the Commission currently has a 3: 2 coalition advantage, and if we adopt this draft, this advantage will increase further. I have a very deep problem. If we interpret this draft in this way, it will have a completely different content than we have requested in this procedure. I will now ask the representative of the Commission for an explanation of how the Commission saw and discussed this issue, and I will also ask the President of the sitting, who himself presented this interpretation, how the Bureau will implement this draft. It's extremely important.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U56	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for your question. The Commission did not discuss this issue in the form it has now arisen in the Chamber. The Commission addressed this issue, but it was generally found that coalition and opposition are commonly defined concepts, so we did not consider it necessary for them to be enshrined in the law. Indeed, such things, which are normally defined, are decided by the Riigikogu Board, for example, and decided by agreement. I think this is a good democratic way of solving things. One possible solution is also what Mrs Akkermann referred to, saying that we can somehow link it to the coalition agreement. Then, of course, the question arises as to whether this will not have too much impact on the coalition agreement. But it's one way to go, there's another way to go. This is the normal way of resolving things that make sense in Parliament's policy precisely because it requires agreements. And it makes a lot of sense if we trust Parliament to make agreements.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U57	Helir-Valdor Seeder, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U58	Yes, I hope that the manager will also answer my previous procedural question. But now I have another procedural question. As the rapporteur answers most of the questions, that this issue was not discussed in the Commission and the second question was not discussed, I ask: do we still have any opportunity to deal with this draft again in the Commission, so that these important issues will still be discussed in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U59	I'll start at the back. Sure. The faction of the Fatherland may propose an interruption. If this is the case with the majority of votes, he will go back to the Commission so that all these important issues can be discussed. And in answer to the previous question, Helir-Valdor Seeder has also been a member of the Board of the Riigikogu and knows that Estonian parliamentary good practice does not foresee that the Head of the Riigikogu would take part in a political debate. Don't try to drag me into this. Riina Sikkut, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U60	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. I understand that the Commission really has not been able to discuss many aspects yet, and this voluntary contribution is also welcome. I am simply indicating that I am prepared to be a representative of the coalition in the Special Committee on State Budget Control. If the board is considering these things, I've volunteered.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U61	I think that's what Helir-Valdor Seeder's question about the last round was answered. Urmas Reinsalu is a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U62	It's getting a little crazy, to put it mildly. The rapporteur for the draft said that the Board of the Riigikogu will determine who belongs to the coalition and who belong to the opposition. This is not the result of the Rules of Procedure Act, but the parliamentary approach already taken by Napoleon's consulate is that then Parliament's Bureau will say who can be in the coalition and who has been appointed to the opposition. Now the President of the sitting said that those with the vote of support for the government are in the coalition. This is not an academic problem, as Helir-Valdor Seeder said, but it concerns very practical behaviour in the current situation. Does the President of the sitting stick to the view that the party that supports the formation of the government also supports the vote of confidence is in the coalition and that is decided by the Riigikogu's board of directors, whether or not it considers him to be in the coalition, or is there some other way of identifying it? If there is a different way of identifying it, I have highlighted historical practical problems where questions may arise, what kind of way does the board think this is? Because it is up to the board to make a decision, to determine who is in the coalition and who is in the opposition.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U63	Yeah, well, there's nothing we can do if a party not in the government coalition has created a delusion that it's actually there and supports the government. It is just that there will be fewer votes in the opposition. That's right. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U64	[[Remote connection]] Once again, there will be a 'procedural' speech. I'd like to reassure the ambassadors of the Fatherland. Political logic now very clearly points to the trend that the Centre Party will soon leave the coalition and there the minority government of the Reform Party will continue. Because out of the current political groups that are qualified as opposition, only the Soviets would be willing to do the government with the Reform Party. The rest of you will probably not be ready to go eat the soup that the Reform Party is now brewing up and watching in this government. That is why we are getting this situation where we can clearly see who is in the coalition and who is in the opposition. The opposition is likely to be in the majority and therefore the coalition's draft does not go through. That is, in fact, the criterion that shows who is in the opposition and who is in the coalition. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U65	I don't know if Oudekki wants to answer that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U66	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much for such an interesting debate. But our committee certainly did not discuss the composition of the government coalition either. Personally, I see that the two-partner government has managed to overcome the very complex reefs now, and I think it will.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U67	Urmas Reinsalu is once again a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U68	Mr President, I would also like to ask Mart Helmet to be reassured. Mart Helme's thinking of possible political developments was very mature and experienced in life. I would say that neither different trends can be ruled out. I wouldn't rule out anything that could happen. Time's up. Choices are on the table. But here's my question to the chair. The President of the sitting previously defined the division between the opposition and the coalition. And I would like to say at this point to Mart Helme that according to this modern interpretation, which has become [represented] by the rapporteur and the chair of the sitting, the parties will no longer just receive the coalition themselves, but the Riigikogu Board will appoint them there, whether or not they will allow them. That is the problem we are currently discussing. And that has to be determined. Now, the question is, the Snots are delusional. They have this mania grandiosa, they think they're in the coalition. That was the reasoning of the President of the sitting. But at the same time, there was a suggestion that the government would stand. And to define the difference between the opposition and the coalition, the voices on which the government can rely at critical moments must be defined as a coalition. My question is whether, by the political definition of the President of the sitting, the Social Democrats are currently in the coalition because they support the government or they are in opposition. How's the remote view, the objective fair chair? Do the Social Democrats support the continuation of the current government, or do they not support it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U69	I'm afraid we've slipped into the negotiating phase here under the name of procedural questions. Indeed, as President of the sitting, it is not appropriate for me to present political analyses to the ambassadors. I'm just not saying it. We can continue this [debate] outside the hall. I understand that the Riigikogu is also called a parliament that comes from the word parler, and we all enjoy it, but I am afraid that we will go out of the format of our sitting. Riina Sikkut, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U70	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. I will make this Urmas Reinsalu issue more practical. If the Centre Party and the Reform Party consider me a representative of the opposition, but you consider me a representative of the coalition, how will my membership be determined? As a representative of the coalition, can I get to the National Audit Committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U71	Yeah, I'd say the same thing I said to Urmas Reinsalu that we've slipped into another format here, which is no longer a second-reading round. So I'm not going along with the provocations. Indrek Saar, procedural, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U72	Thank you for the floor. Yes, if we have learned, instead of the Commission's rapporteur's comments, the possibility of avoiding a substantive discussion and saying that it was not discussed in the Commission, then unfortunately it also means that we have not had the opportunity to understand whether the Commission has, in reality, really thought through what is now being done with this amendment. In this regard, I realized that the President has, however, gone a little further and defined what the coalition means in a particular case and what the opposition means. This, in turn, makes this whole decision, perhaps in practice, quite different. Because I understand the President's interpretation that, in this case, after the Riigikogu has made the decision before us, when it comes to determining the seats of the special committee on the control of the state budget, the Social Democrats consider the coalition to be a party. In other words, what concerns the Centre Party, the Reform Party and the Social Democrats in this Commission remains the same or at least proportionally the same. Well, let's say this is one. But that means either the EKRE or the Fatherland, either, should get to one place, for this balance to be created, or it is possible to interpret that an unattached ambassador, for example, belongs to the opposition and an ambassador from the political group is appointed to this committee. I understand from your comments, Mr President, that you have discussed in the Bureau how these seats should be distributed after this decision. Perhaps you could now clarify what was the concrete agreement in the Bureau following the Bureau's discussion. And what happens here after we make that decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U73	I don't think I should complain to Oudekki Loone right now. That is exactly how our second-reading rulebook is that he should give us an overview of what was said in the Commission. And if that wasn't said in the committee, he might, if he wants to, fall off, but he doesn't have to. Last autumn, a publication declared me the most influential person in Estonia. Well, I'm not taking this very seriously, because I'm not taking this publication very seriously. But I'll make sure you do. You think that what I say here is in Estonian politics. I'm glad to hear that. But in answer to Indrek Saare's question, there is this balance on the board, as I say now, informally or briefly discussed. This is the way of thinking: in one special committee there are two people from the Reform Party and one person from the Centre Party and from the Fatherland, the EKRE and the Social Democratic Party there is one person from each. In the second special committee there are two people from the Centre Party, one from the Reform Party and one from all three non-governmental parties. That's the balance. Now, I'm gonna put on a party hat for a moment and say that, of course, we understand that the Socats sometimes vote with the Central Party and the Reform Party, because they're still on the side of the liberal front. Jevgeni Ossinovski, procedure, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U74	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Don't put that hat on, it's going to be...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U75	... out of my hand, huh?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U76	...to really limp. This parliamentary practice also has its reasons. It's not like you're gonna open Pandora's box and then you're gonna say, "But now I'm no longer subject to provocation to explain what I just said." Actually, it's extraordinarily important. Let us imagine that the Mart Helme scenario should materialise and that the composition of the board will not change over the course of the year. In what way, then, would we ensure that balance is ensured in accordance with this decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U77	If it happens that we have a government falling apart and no one leaves the Board of the Riigikogu and the Board of the Riigikogu is no longer representative of what is in the Chamber and what has been turned around, interesting things happen. Then you'll see who has the majority. And the big hall can always pass the decisions of the board. [[They say something in the hall.]] If there is a minority government, i.e. there is no majority in this Chamber, then it will continue as it is now. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U78	Thank you. I do have a procedural question, which is extremely important. The Law on Home and Working Procedures does not define the concept of opposition and coalition. Now the board must begin to interpret it. Riina Sikkut publicly declared here in front of the big hall that she represents the coalition. So I believe that the Bureau will not have, after that, in the light of the earlier votes of the sots, which have supported the Coalition's possibility of an interpretation of the law, as you have just said, and which you have just read about what the Bureau has been discussing. I do believe that in such a case, the decision of the board is contrary to the spirit of the law. It is beautifully seen in the explanatory memorandum of the law and in these discussions, and it also emerges from the discussions in today's big hall that there must be a balance between the coalition and the opposition. In such a case, the balance will not prevail and what Indrek Saar said must indeed be applied, namely to include either the EKRE or the representative of the Fatherland. Am I getting this right?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U79	We can try to do that on the board, yeah. I'm afraid my voice will be left alone there, but we can try it. Urmas Reinsalu, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U80	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say don't believe these newspapers, Martin. It makes all kinds of claims. Of course, I understand that Jevgeni Ossinovski has set a table with another political prediction, opposite Mart Helme, as if EKRE could join the current government coalition, and then we would have some sort of opposition-coalition imbalance on the board of the Riigikogu. However, I will come back to the specific formulation of the President of the sitting, to the formulation made by the President of the sitting as a representative of the Bureau. In the coalition, it is those who support the government and whose voices the government holds. This is the starting point. The presenter did not comment on this, but indicated that the competence to define it was purely by the Bureau. It was defined by the Chair. By this logic, if the interpretation of the coalition is such, according to the President of the sitting, the merger of one central partyman or one reform party commission, as the practical intention is, it means that the opposition will remain in the Commission's hands and, in fact, there will be four people in the coalition. There are two people in the opposition, and then there are four people in the coalition at once. Rather, according to the proposal, the situation should be exactly as Indrek Saar referred to, backwards. The reverse balancing mechanism, i.e. we should merge either the Fatherland or the EKRE Human Commission. I'll come back to that. I wouldn't hurt social democrats either, with that logic. They're doing a pretty good job on committees, on special committees, aren't they? They're doing good work with their hearts, and we can see the results. But I'd still like to come back to asking why you're coming from it. You yourself said that the Social Democrats believe that they are part of the so-called liberal front, i.e. they think they are in the coalition and support this coalition ethos. How and what are they to be defined? Now give a clear objective [assessment] rather than going into a speculative approach. Who is the Estonian Social Democratic Party here today in the sense of parliamentary power and opposition act? This knowledge is also very important for the social democrats themselves. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] That's when it's gonna be assigned to the board. Quo vadis, Social Democrats? Now Martin Helme has the ball and the responsibility ball. One-phrase clear answer, not slipping into the stepfather.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U81	Last week we voted here, I suggest, about a dozen drafts that only received a vote in favour. There were no votes against. So there are drafts and there are policy areas in which there is practically political consensus in Estonia. Based on this debate today, it is as if there is no way to understand whether we have any opposition at all or whether we have it as in the North Korean Parliament. And yet what we have is that if there's any more critical moments, there's still some kind of waterfall. The question is whether these special committees, which are government supervisory bodies, the State Budget Control Commission and the Special Committee on Corruption, are going to have to bring the opposition back together by the fact that there is a formal balance between opposition and coalition, i.e. there are three delegates from political parties that do not have any ministers in the government, and three delegates from political parties that have ministers in the government. Now it turns out, however, that one of those political parties that does not have any ministers in the government actually systematically supports the government agenda all the time. Well, then we can say, from this point of view, no, there is no distribution of places in accordance with the draft explanatory memorandum, and it needs to be redeployed. But as Urmas Reinsalu even admitted, there is no problem at present in these special committees. I would also like to point out that, until January, coalition parties had the same advantage in special committees, even though the chairman of the special committee was a representative of the opposition. So I think we're doing a lot of scholastic here. Jevgeni Ossinovski, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U82	Thank you. You said that you would look at whether people will vote the same way or the other way in this large Chamber in critical votes. But does the conduct of a member of a special committee in a special committee in any way be judged according to it? For example, if the coalition really should appoint Riina Sikkut as a representative of the coalition, but it turns out that she is actually voting in a government-critical way there, then the board should conclude that she is not really in the coalition.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U83	Well, you want me to have a crystal ball. No, it's not. I don't have a crystal ball I can look inside. Well, in the case of adequate people, they usually have the same self-image and the same picture. But if the people themselves say they are in opposition, but they actually vote with the government, then, of course, the self-image and the view from the outside no longer match. That could be a problem. Urmas Reinsalu is once again a procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U84	Thank you, Mr President. This thing gets [confused], I mean, instead of being clear about questions and answers, we're actually getting away from clarity. I think it's like going backwards right now, this reverse-Antsy journey. The question is now that at first, the chairman of the sitting said that the coalition and opposition are determined by the governing board of the Riigikogu. I would like to point out once again that the rapporteur did not answer that question. The chairman of the meeting said that the coalition was supported by votes. This is a set of problems that raised a number of questions, right, as well as specific problems. There were practical examples, for which we did not actually get an answer in terms of the historical context. The President of the sitting has now taken a second interpretation: in the coalition, those parties that have members of the delegation of governments are ministers. I'm still coming back to the particular case. My question is this: in 2009 were the Greens, according to this logic, a coalition of government, should this have been interpreted or not? Because there was no green representative in the government. At the same time, at critical moments, they did indeed support the coalition and the majority government. Good and interesting things were done. The question is that we need to be clear here. You might think that we're chewing on the star right now, but the debate we're going through is going to be sitting on the verbatim for years, all over the ages. And the controversy we are holding here is actually becoming an interpretation guide in the next parliaments. So in that sense, Martin, I'm joining the paper, you're very influential. You are actually giving the future generations an interpretation of how we are going to interpret this matter, how future parliamentary boards will determine the difference between opposition and coalition. And you must be the giant on whose shoulders those future midgets are. So bear out your responsibility, take this time, give an explanation and answer a specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U85	Thank you. I am not alone in being able to answer that question; for this, either the board of directors or, better yet, the body of elders must come together. The Council of Elders is also a nice format, which the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu do not write at all much apart, but there it is and there things are usually decided by consensus. So I think I've been talking relatively consistently here. But once again, I don't think it's appropriate that you're all trying to make me the object of this debate right now. I'm trying to run a meeting, but I don't think I'm doing well, I'm looking. Imre Sooääre has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U86	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Indeed, the procedural question and it continues with the procedural question of a good colleague, Urmas Reinsalu, which was very justified. Since this is a verbatim report, which really remains for thousands of years, I cannot agree with the President of the sitting's opinion that it is like a North Korean Parliament. I actually think that, first of all, this debate has gone completely flat-out here, which has been let down by the honourable President of the sitting. And I think it is very good that this has happened because there will be a substantive and fundamental debate on how we will decide in the future who is on either side of the water. The fewer of these waterfalls in this hall and the more love there is in this hall, the better. I have a question about that. Since the good chair himself referred to the body of elders, after all these very important and epoch-creating questions and answers, for example, personally, I very much support Riina Sikkut's opinion and would even put myself on a list of places where you can join, even though I do not know where the list is, but whatever, perhaps it would be wiser to ask for the opinion of the body of elders. Looks like we can't go on like this in this Chamber right now. And Oudekki Loone, who should answer, is no longer spoken at all. Would we address the body of elders now, or how do we solve this Gordion knot?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U87	I'd be happy to give Oudek my word if anyone wanted to ask him a question. In order to convene the body of elders, the political group must turn to the Chairman of the Riigikogu, Jüri Ratas. He'll be happy to convene the body of elders. Indrek Island also has a procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U88	[[Remote connection]] Yeah, I'll pick up somewhere where Imre ends, as well as earlier questioners and Urmas Reinsalu. Unfortunately, the President has given a very clear interpretation in his first comment on how to delimit the opposition and coalition. For further questions, the President of the sitting has started to whine. We do not understand whether this interpretation is the position of the Governing Board and what interpretation is applicable to either this initial interpretation that in this case social democracy should be taken as a coalition, or later confused stories about someone's self-image and what is really happening. I would also like to know what, in the opinion of the Riigikogu board, really is. Because if we make a decision today in the wording that is before us, then the Riigikogu Board must accordingly give an interpretation of who is the opposition and coalition, and the compositions of the special committee depend on it in practice. Therefore, in my opinion, the President of the sitting still has a duty to clarify what he thinks he has the authority of the Bureau and, if he is wrong, to apologise for being wrong and to take back his words, not to confuse us even more in this whole process.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U89	Thank you. The Board of the Riigikogu is a collegial body. I cannot decide or declare anything here on behalf of the Riigikogu's board. I have been asked for an opinion on one thing or another, I suppose that opinion has been either a personal or an on-the-spot interpretation. It's certainly not like I've started squirming, but I've nuanced things during the debate. I guess that dog's gonna squirt who gets hit by a rock. But now there's a procedural question for Mart Hellel.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U90	[[Remote connection]] Yeah. Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, It is very clear that procedural issues are being abused here. For this reason, I have a recommendation to the President not to have the monologues presented under the label of the procedural question happening and to turn off the microphones, because these are not procedural questions. But since my name has been mentioned several times, I'm gonna take myself out of the questioners and I'm gonna say we cut this Gordion knot. EKRE may take the initiative to draw up a motion of distrust for Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, who has caused such confusion in less than four months in the country that he does not even understand who is in opposition and who is in the coalition. Then we can see clearly: all those who vote in distrust against the government of Kaja Kallas and in favour of his resignation are opposition, and those who do not vote are coalitions. Of course, we are waiting for at least two votes so that we can make this motion of distrust, and it also shows who is in opposition and who is in the coalition. So my position is very clear: we will resolve this issue by a vote of no confidence. Then we will be very clear as to whether they are coalition or opposition, and whether the Central Party will decide to continue such a sled-line policy in the government, or whether it will decide to straighten its back and break it up, make the country poor, and leave the government of dispersing the people from Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U91	Thank you. I am in no hurry, I think we have a very friendly and substantive debate. This agenda doesn't push us too hard. We can still discuss this matter thoroughly. I just have a request that members of the Riigikogu do not expect me to take positions on behalf of the board. I can't do that because the board is, as I said, a collegial body. And we're still trying to keep the procedural issues procedural. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U92	[[Remote connection]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U93	No, I'm not shutting down anybody here right now. Well, the limit is not a question of knowledge. Urmas Reinsalu is once again a procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U94	Thank you, Mr President. This question is now really procedural. As an introduction, I would like to congratulate the President of the sitting for his balanced management. Here it has been attempted to tear the President of the sitting down with some sort of depreciating lines. I'm not going with this game. And I think Martin was right that his father didn't turn off the microphone, even though Mart Helme said that if the procedural questions were not asked, it should be done. The question that Mart Helme proposed in order to define clearly who will then support this government and who will not support it. I say to the President to inform him: I do not support this government. This shit that is organised with Estonian national defence is, in fact, completely unacceptable. And this is definitely something that this government must, if it does not stop undermining Estonian national defence, express its distrust for this government. Hands off the Estonian national defence! That is the one clear message. I will now point out this procedurally: last week, in the Committee on National Defence, I put on the table a proposal that the Committee on National Defence, the Committee on National Defence, should be heard. We must take the view that we are opposed to national defence cuts, and we will vote it down. The National Defence Committee is the last pulpit, the rock that must protect the Defence Forces and Estonian national defence. The members of the Reform Party and the Centre Party voted against. Members of the Fatherland and the EKRE voted in favour of my proposal. However, now comes the most difficult question for the President of the sitting. According to my report, the Socialist representative did not vote either in favour or against. How, then, can he be defined in this situation? Mart says a motion of distrust helps us reach a point of view. But how do we vote on this fundamental issue, where the National Defence Committee approved these cuts? How do we define social democrats on this fundamental issue, if the Social Democrats did not take part in the vote? We need to find an answer to that. Of course, the starting point is that everyone honestly says what they think about and what they don't think about what our government does. Certainly, this government also has practical steps that deserve recognition, practical questions, but that does not mean [that they act responsibly. ] In the overall picture, I believe that this government is acting irresponsiblely, especially when it comes to national defence. Whether the word is "failure" or the word is actually "safe," but the result is poor. Poor, Mr President. Please answer the question on the definition of the coalition and opposition in the Committee on National Defence on the basis of the vote that took place last Tuesday. I know Leo Kunnas can complement me here. There must be clarity here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U95	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that we have item 336 OE on amending the establishment of a special budget control committee. I understand that Urmas Reinsalu is the chairman of this committee and that, understandably, makes this point a passionate subject for him. However, there is one nuance that should not be forgotten in any way: each political party, each political group, has its own political positions and can vote either way, or by a third, regardless of how other political parties vote, without it directly classifying them anywhere. You must never forget that. Good or bad policies can be pursued regardless of which side of the line. Indrek Saar, please, procedure again!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U96	[[Remote connection]] Thank you! First of all, I understand that as the chair of the sitting, the comment "Wouldn't that dog squeal at the stone" was an introduction to Mart Helme's monologue. But I still come here to the substantive concern that I have repeatedly expressed, and not just me, but quite a few of us here. According to the preliminary interpretation of the President of the sitting, after this decision we are facing today, the Socialist Coalition should be interpreted as part of the Socialist Coalition. It has created an avalanche of questions. If we would now like to understand what the actual situation is, the chairman of the sitting should answer the question whether such an interpretation is his subjective opinion and we have no reason to assume that the majority of the governing board of the Riigikogu will join that interpretation, or that is the opinion of the majority of the governing board of the Riigikogu. I would ask the President for an answer to this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U97	It's not difficult to answer that. I have said several times that I cannot take the position of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu to represent here if we have not decided this on the Riigikogu's board, and that was my subjective position. If it helps you. Helir-Valdor Seeder, procedural, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U98	Thank you. I really do have a procedural question. This draft provides for certain competences for the Governing Board. What we're going to do is we're going to spin around this, how the board is going to define and decipher this power of law. This issue cannot be decided on by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs or by any other committee on behalf of the Bureau, so we do not have the help of interrupting the draft and of further discussing it in the Commission. The only way at present is to understand how the Bureau is going to fill out this specific section of the law and this amendment by asking procedural questions. Here's my suggestion. As the Bureau is a collective body and the President of the sitting is not able to decide on this, the President takes a break and meets the Bureau, who discusses the matter and gives a very clear signal and feedback to the Chamber on how the Bureau now begins to interpret the powers conferred by law. We cannot go any other way, because when the second reading ends today, there will be no more substantive changes to the draft. Once again, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs cannot give us this answer on behalf of the Bureau. So the only way is for the President to take a break, the Bureau to meet and give us a clear interpretation of how it will be handled. And then we can move forward with this debate in the big hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U99	Thank you. No, that is not necessary, I have already described once what further implementation has been discussed with the members of the Bureau. One person from EKRE, Fatherland, a socialist, two people from the Centre Party in one committee and one person from the Reform Party in the other committee, one from the Centre Party and two from the Reform Party in the other. This has been the case between Bureau members for a debate on the implementation of this and the previous agenda item. We don't need to take a break for that. Kalle Grünthal, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U100	Thank you, Mr President. I have another problem with this bill. But I have to start a little further away. As we know, there is a very interesting picture of the current government's activities, if you look at it as a whole. First of all, the current government is insanely raising fuel prices, forbidding the funding of an education of interest, has decided to sell to state companies. The mineral resources, which are in Ida-Virumaa and which are our national wealth, are intended in this sense to cut through the continuity of the miners' dynasty. Perhaps the know-how will be lost. The mineral resources will certainly not remain in the ground, foreign companies will replace them, who will mine them, etc., etc. Here's the question. Looking at this whole picture, I would like to know who this government intends to hand it over to. I'd like to know the name of this organization or company or this country. Is it known to the board of the Riigikogu, or can you suddenly tell us who the beneficiary is, for whose benefit the current government is doing these acts?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U101	I don't know how to answer that question. Marko Šorin has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U102	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President of the sitting. I congratulate the opposition on its excellent initiative to find a way to turn the coalition back. But I didn't want to talk about it. Suddenly, the chair reminds colleagues of what is a procedural issue. We are completely out of the subject we are currently having in the debate. In the meantime, I wanted to ask a procedural question, but Mart Helme has already referred to the deficit that we are currently experiencing in the sitting. Indeed, I propose that the President of the sitting read out the paragraph in which it states what is a procedural question. Perhaps, then, colleagues will lose their appetite for endless procedural speeches.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U103	Thank you. I have tried to draw attention to this on a number of occasions that procedural questions are either procedural or technical specifications, but this reminder hardly reduces anyone's zeal. Like I said, we're in a hurry. Everyone needs to be cleared up in the house. If we don't get it any other way, we're still gonna answer all the questions from this remote. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U104	If I were a little more rigorous, I would urge the good questioner that his question was not a procedural question, but rather a proposal to quote the Rules of Procedure Act, which is known and clear to all Members. I think we should still focus on substantive issues if we want to move forward, but these issues must, of course, remain within the framework of the Rules of Procedure Act. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I think we took a step forward with your answer, but two steps back. The chair pointed out that Parliament's Bureau had discussed all the questions on how its interpretation practice would be in these circumstances if Parliament supported this decision. This is important information in itself. My question, however, is to the chair of the sitting, who does not have to, say, improvise, but to express the Bureau's position on how the Bureau envisages. How does the Bureau define the opposition and coalition in the case of a minority government, and how does it define the opposition and coalition in the case of a so-called government of specialists with non-political backgrounds, whatever political context may be considered necessary to appoint them? Well, I think, perhaps most of all, we can say, it was Tiit Vähi's first government during the transition periods. This has been the case in other countries, but there has indeed been no human existence in Estonia's practice. I would ask for a concrete answer on what the Bureau's position was so that we could understand it and move forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U105	Thank you. No, I don't have to improvise, I should start speculating, because the board hasn't discussed it. Indeed, there has been no discussion of the possibility of a minority government in Estonia in the near future. That would be speculation. I don't think that makes any sense right now. Evgeny Ossinovski has a procedural question again. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U106	Well, now we're back to being serious. Of course, the cartoons and fish muffles that have been heard here have actually been presented by both the President and the questioners in order to illustrate the way in which this decision can become completely absurd when it is implemented. That's actually the question. We have certain parliamentary practices that can be implemented by agreement. Indeed, in the previous composition, there was an excess of government departments on these committees, but that was an agreement. In fact, these committees were predominantly able to work, although there were certain individual [narrow] places, their creation took place in agreement. Now, in order to make this change, there is no agreement in the Riigikogu. The situation is very simple: according to this decision, the Chairman of the Riigikogu can come to the board and say that we will appoint all reform and central party members and say that it is based on this principle, the principle of equality between coalition and opposition. Well, we expect the current chair to vote against this proposal and say that it does not follow. Then it comes to the majority vote in this big hall. And if the government union votes this out, then it is true that there are no real opposition representatives on these committees. That's why we need to get this principle straight, or we need to take this shit back. That is one reason why these terms are still not defined in any law. That is precisely because we can resolve such issues by agreement, so that the parliamentary practice actually works in itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U107	Yeah, the questioner's assumption was correct. A consensus is needed to ensure that a decision taken by the Governing Board is valid immediately. If any member of the board objects, it will be here in the big hall. And when he comes to this great hall, you can quickly see what the voices of the opposition are and what the coalition's voices are. It is not undemocratic, but it is undoubtedly politically risky. It certainly has a price that will be paid if such a road roll policy is carried out. So it hasn't been done so far. And I believe that we are such a mature parliamentary democratic state that this will not happen in the future. But these are all speculations, indeed. Now, Oudekki, who you've been on the line for a long time and waiting for, there's a question for you. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U108	Yeah, there's been some procedural questions for half an hour, but eventually Oudekki can ask you a question. Mart Helme here reasoned that it might happen that the Reform Party is making a minority government. Am I right to understand that, if such a situation occurs, there will be four members of the Reform Party and one member of each of the other parties on the special committees?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U109	I'm sorry! Could you repeat that question? Somehow, I had it hacked...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U110	Let's get the microphone back to Aivar Koka, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U111	Thank you. Good Oudekki! Mart Helme here offered one option that the Centre Party will soon go to the opposition and the Reform Party will make a minority government, i.e. alone leading the country. In this situation, would the Reform Party have four members in the special committees and one member in each of the other parties represented in the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U112	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. I understand that somehow the current government coalition is very exciting. And sometimes it seems to me that this is such a good coalition, where everyone but Urmas Reinsalu would like to belong. In itself, this is a very good achievement. I'd take that answer a little bit more broadly. Let's start over. First, let us remember what we decide. We decide that we will change the Riigikogu's decision to set up a special committee on state budget control in 2019. Let us say that we form this committee and that the Commission is formed on the basis of the principle of equal representation of the coalition and opposition. Now, as a representative of the Commission, I can say that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not discuss this issue in detail on the basis of the definition of coalition and opposition and various cases. It is precisely because the majority of the Commission felt that this was an understandable term. The question was raised as to what would happen to the 'window' ambassadors, i.e. what would happen to the MPs who did not belong to any political group, because it seemed obvious that it would be possible to say in a wholesome way where they belong in the case of political parties or political groups. Perhaps in today's state it is very clear that the coalition is made up of the Centre Party and the Reform Party and opposition is the EKRE, the Fatherland and the Social Democratic Party. It's a common sense approach. And I think we're all actually sharing this in this hall. Personally, I think it is also very important that we are not going to describe everything exactly in the legislative process. We will set up specific committees for concrete moments with the decisions we are making now. Therefore, I personally think that if we get too precise in our internal regulation, it would limit our freedom of decision. That is the decision on a specific issue in a particular situation, so that we have more or less an agreement. Now, the coalition is also a certain agreement, it is an agreement between us to form a government, to support a government. So there are always several parties to the agreement. All these examples that, look, I'm coming and I'm going to be in this side, are very welcome, but then the other parties will also have to make this agreement. In this sense, people cannot define themselves as a party to a contract without the agreement being accepted by the other parties. Coalitions can also be formed in such a way that there can also be a minority government. Once again, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs considered it important that this decision be based on the political reality of the particular situation. Now, as regards whether this will go forward for the next generations, the next parliaments will once again be free to decide which special committees they form, whether they want to set up these special committees, and perhaps also, on what basis. This is one possible way to set up special committees. If we look at our parliamentary practice, there are different ways in which they have been done. If we look at normal, there are different ways, and indeed the Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed this. Therefore, my personal opinion is that drawing a line between the coalition and the opposition is based on common sense. And in the event of problems, we have the Riigikogu Board and we have a majority vote. These are the mechanisms we have. If, at the end of the day, we cannot reach an agreement between ourselves, then indeed our great hall will simply vote on what this composition should be. But I sincerely believe and hope that we will achieve these agreements sensibly and sooner. In this sense, I very much welcome the fact that the content of our decision now states that we are forming a coalition and opposition based on the principle of equal representation, which requires the coalition to reach an agreement with the opposition so that it cooperates. This is a principle and I think it is a very good principle.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U113	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U114	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good Oudekki! I'm gonna listen to your long and pretty talk and I'm gonna wonder what you're talking about. This is my committee, I have been in different configurations in this committee. And mostly there are very few people who open their mouths. Now, I ask you, what use are these bags of flour an apology in front of my colleagues? A voiceless person in the Commission, but never opens his mouth. Whether or not there's a silent sack of flour, I'm sorry! - or two or three or four. My question to you, good Oudekki, is this. Tell me who currently represents the Centre Party in the Special Committee on State Budget Control. I don't know that. I'm a member of the Commission, but I don't know, because this person has always been quiet like a stocking. And that is even true of coalition members. But first of all, tell me who is the representative of the Centre Party on my committee. I don't know.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U115	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr. Ernits. I am quite sad to hear that you consider your colleagues to be sacks of flour and think that committees are somehow your personal property. No, it's not. These are the parliamentary committees of the Republic of Estonia, which have members elected by the Estonian people, and I would really expect some respect for them.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U116	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U117	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I understand that right now we have a government with a so-called special need or an attempt that likes to be privileged in every position at all times. My simple question: why do you even form these committees if there is no one to man them with? Do not do this to the Commission. I don't really need it. No commission, no problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U118	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. It seems to the Centre Party and the Reform Party that these committees are very much needed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U119	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U120	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Oudekki, you didn't answer my question. You talked about everything else in a long monologue, but I asked a very specific question. I understand we're not just doing the law for today. The next Riigikogu may be quite different. I gave an example, just as Mart Helme proposed or expressed the opinion that perhaps at some point the Reform Party is alone in a minority government. In this case, are the four members of the Reform Party and the rest of the political parties represented in the Riigikogu one representative?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U121	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. If the Reform Party should be the only one in any version of the coalition, then this is one option.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U122	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U123	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good Oudekki! I repeat: you did not answer Aivar Koka's question and you did not answer my question either. Please tell me in clear Estonian, who represents the Centre Party in the current special committee on state budget control. He never opened his mouth, and I don't even know who he is. Please tell me who the silent person is!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U124	[[Remote connection]] Mr. Ernits! Perhaps you are wrong about the Commission where you are, because our representative, Mr Marek Jürgenson, is very effective and also asks questions in every committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U125	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U126	[[Remote connection]] Thank you! We got a little closer to the truth, but a little more effort is needed. I'll ask you again. For the Centre Party and the Reform Party, these committees are needed when and only when they have favourable conditions. Under other conditions, they do not need these committees. That is why we have come to a place where the Commission needs to be set up on a new basis. I ask, do you have any idea what will happen if it is not formed? Is someone gonna cut a keksu gum with manicure scissors, for example, if this thing doesn't work?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U127	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Then simply the control over the preparation of the state budget may be somewhat less effective. We believe that a special committee could be set up for this, especially one that defends the rights of the opposition and where the opposition and the coalition have equal weight. We consider this to be very important for the functioning of our democracy. Therefore, I really hope that the majority of the Riigikogu will support the formation of this committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U128	Thank you, Oudekki! It seems that we have reached the end of the round of questions. Thank you for the thoroughness of the hall! Now we come to the negotiations. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U129	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't plan on coming to talk at first, but I still had to reverse that decision. As a Member of Parliament, I had, I think, a reasonable expectation and a presumption when this scandalous proposal to castrated parliamentary scrutiny was launched, that, in the course of the subsequent procedure, the basic concepts would still be clarified before we reached the final vote. But today we have learned that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has not dealt with the most important issues in the context of this draft in substance. The reason why the opposition and coalition have so far not been defined in Estonian law is because it is not possible to do so unambiguously. And this is the core of today's almost an hour and a half debate that illustrates it. The reason is very simple: we know that we really do have some kind of 'normal' understanding', and in most political situations we do not have problems, but in the case of specific ambassadors or entire groups of ambassadors, drawing this line is actually very difficult in certain political situations. That's why it hasn't been defined so far. So far, we have been based on an understanding, by the way, of my ten-year parliamentary experience, that it was a law, but it turned out that it was not a law, that there was one in every political group in the special committees. And indeed, this has led to situations in Parliament where there has been opposition in the majority, and has also led to situations where the coalition is in the majority. This practice has so far been accepted by everyone, as well as by the fact that the chairmen of these committees are oppositionists. These committees have actually been able to work quite well. The main advantage of this principle is not ensuring political proportionality, but that it is clear: one from each group. This is an unambiguous principle that applies both in one composition and in the next, both in one coalition of government and in another coalition of government. Now, however, we are creating a situation where the principle of setting up these committees is actually being blurred. In Estonia, all coalitions have changed during one parliamentary term and, for example, our board, to whom we now give a mandate to define this relative concept, not to the end, has a longer mandate, i.e. it is not possible to recall them. In fact, it is possible in this way that a majority of Parliament will complete the work of this committee at all, for example, so that it will only appoint representatives of the coalition. Then it can really be said that, well, now the great hall can vote. The Grand Hall can vote, the Grand Hall will vote with a majority vote, and if the Government coalition wants it, it will actually happen. That's why we haven't actually written this term into law so far. And the fact that this is now being attempted, with a clear objective, which, no matter what, is hidden in order to reduce the effectiveness of parliamentary control, is, in my opinion, a very bad decision for parliamentarianism in Estonia. Of course, it can be said that the public does not care how you deal with these matters in this House. No one knows that these committees even exist there, and it is likely that the Government's Union will be able to vote it off in such a way that no one will notice that much. But the parliament of the Republic of Estonia and its members should regard the honour and dignity of this institution as important enough not to do such things. I'll take some more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U130	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U131	It is clear that parliamentary control over the government takes place in these two committees, because the majority of the other committees have an advantage over the government union. And, of course, it is only reasonable that there is an advantage of the government union, it has always been so in us and in other parliaments, because the undoubtedly executive must be able to carry out its political objectives. But in these two committees you could actually think about how to ensure that there is a majority of the opposition, i.e. not only the chairman is the opposition, but even the majority of the opposition. Because what is the real issue? The question is very simple. What did Mrs. Loone say? Well, that is a very good proposal, because it requires cooperation between the coalition and the opposition. In order for this committee to be able to work, the members of the coalition and opposition must agree among themselves. That sounds like a really fun principle. But what does that really mean? This means that, as the President of the sitting informed us of the plan, two reform parties will be sent to one committee and two central parties will be sent to another committee. The result is very simple: the chairman of the committee, who is part of the opposition, in this case Urmas Reinsalu, is making a draft agenda, for example, I would like to discuss some kind of misusing of administrative funds. If the issue is inconvenient enough for the government union, the government union will agree that they will vote against this project. The meeting will meet, the draft agenda is on the table, but this item will not be included on the agenda and will not be discussed. In this situation, what does cooperation and agreement with the coalition mean? This means that these committees can carry out parliamentary scrutiny only in certain cases and on issues where the coalition, at least one of their members, is willing to address this issue with the opposition. Of course, we understand that this means that the most uncomfortable issues are discussed either briefly or not at all, but on those issues that do not have a sharp acute weight of political responsibility, which is so important in a democratic society and politics, they say: no, we think that this should not be discussed here. And these agendas just fail. This is no longer an opportunity for academic debate. As I was referring to, during the previous government union, we already had this problem with these two committees. The committees dealt with agreements concluded by the Ministry of Finance, where serious doubts and questions were raised, but in fact the possibilities for parliamentary scrutiny were severely limited, because the government association decided that the Minister of Finance would be brought out of the fire. They didn't just show up there, and the committee meeting failed. Perhaps this decision is clearly targeted and declared, the initiators have directed it there in order to reduce parliamentary control over the use of money by the government. This is unacceptable in a parliamentary democratic state, and that is why the Social Democrats are voting against it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U132	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U133	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I've been sitting at this committee table for quite a while and under the leadership of different leaders, so I know what we're talking about. I think this is one of the most informed committees on how Estonian state and taxpayer money are used. Today we have our committee, figuratively speaking, the Minister of Culture, tomorrow for defence, the day after tomorrow for justice, education[minister] etc., etc. Constantly and thoroughly. Originally, the National Audit Office's report talks about the effectiveness of the use of state funds. And this model is the same. First of all, the National Audit Office shows how money, often millions, has been destroyed. The minister then answers, thank you for your good work. But no responsibility. Maybe sometimes they say something, like that it was actually a little different, but in general, the scheme is the same. It doesn't matter if it's the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Social Affairs or the Minister of Education, and it doesn't matter what coalition it is. It is now said that we do not have 1.4 million for the Defence Forces orchestra, or no money for an education of interest. Laughs, ladies and gentlemen! There's money or money in the language of the country, it'll fly unscrupulously. But then there's some kind of tinkering about some kind of Defence Corps orchestra or some kind of recreational education. Guys, there's plenty of money. Come to the committee meeting, look and listen! That's it. It's content. After all, this is a five-member group in its present composition, most of whom, unfortunately, are silent like boars in rye. Never speak, even though we are talking about blowing taxpayers' money to the wind. I'm not gonna tell you all the details here. But it should raise the hair of all the members of the Riigikogu who hear, whatever political groups they are. But it's quiet. We don't vote either. I remember when, during the previous coalition, Mr Jürgen Ligi led this committee and when these hearings were held on the subject of Louis Freeh' and when some sort of joint assembly of the two committees was made. Katri Raik, who has now left our Parliament, was then the leader of the second Commission. At some point, Katri Raik began to vote in his Committee on Corruption. And when I proposed to Jürgen Ligi that, good Jürgen, we vote too, Jürgen said that Katri doesn't know how things work. There's no vote. And we didn't vote on Louis Freeh" in the previous composition. That's the reality. And my question to you. It's a long, pretty story Oudekki said here. High ideals, etc. Long story, nothing. Let's talk about content, burning public money, and incompetence of dispersal, for which no one is responsible. This is an issue when we are talking about a special committee on state budget control. It doesn't matter to me whether there's one silent coalition member or two or three or four. Or any group they are from. This is where we should make a sound and speak more widely. I agree with the previous speaker that these committees really should be in the hands of the opposition in order for parliamentary control to work. What you described, Evgeny, is true. If the coalition has more representatives...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U134	Would you like some more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U135	Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U136	Three minutes extra time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U137	... it will be possible to really paralyze [the work] away. You can't invite anyone, the Prime Minister or the Minister of Finance, who, by the way, we have daily, every morning, early-morning guests there. Then this thing falls away. But, good Evgeny, there's an institution that's really hard to put a head on. This is the National Audit Office. And their audits on the hat off in front of this company show how real money collected from taxpayers is actually used in the Republic of Estonia. That's the main thing. They come out with their audits over and over again and the same scenario repeats itself. A specific minister and his subordinates, high officials, will come and thank you for your hard work. A little something says it wasn't like that. But there's a new audit next week. The content is the same. Faces are changing, ministers and senior officials, but the same incompetence continues. That's when we get to the same place that we don't have any money for a hobby education, we need to scrape up a little bit, we don't need a Defence Orchestra, we don't need chaplains, and what the hell. Don't play dumb with me, my friends! In my opinion, the current debate on this committee is my committee at the moment on the fact that I have tried to participate actively there, and it should be about content. Let's talk content! On this point, although I often disagree with the Snots, I liked Evgen's position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U138	Thank you. There's a procedural question on Tarmo Kruus Hill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U139	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good vice chairman. I have a question. We have a second reading. Can all members of the Riigikogu or only representatives of political groups give a speech at second reading?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U140	We can take the floor at second reading for all members of the Riigikogu. Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U141	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank the President of the sitting for leading this very balanced sitting and also for the very specific explanations on how these committees are actually being set up to allocate a specific number. But for that commendation, I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U142	I wish I could have. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U143	Ladies and gentlemen, It is completely unexpected for me that some colleagues still find it incomprehensible whether they are in the coalition or in the opposition. I admit that going from the coalition to the opposition and even more from the opposition to the coalition may be a little unfamiliar, it will take time, but I believe that by this day everyone could have a clear understanding of whether they are in the coalition or in the opposition. Of course, it is possible to construct a wide variety of options, depending on who is currently in government. But I would remind colleagues that special committees are set up every time after the Riigikogu elections. In the same decision, the principle of setting up the same special committee is also in [the game]. This principle can always be changed. Moreover, as we see today's draft is being processed, the principles of setting up special committees may also be changed during the composition of the Riigikogu. So there is no point in worrying about the very different structures here, the à la minority governments or the government of specialists or whatever, because they have nothing to do with this. We are talking at the moment about the basis for the formation of this special committee in the case of this government coalition and opposition. If there is a new coalition, of course, it will always be possible to return to the foundations of this same committee. There was a repeated question as to why the Commission had not discussed these issues. The Commission did not discuss these issues because the members of the Commission understood everything, without exception all members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs understood what a coalition means and what an opposition means. No one, not a single Member of the Commission at the Commission meeting raised this issue. Moreover, I am very pleased, in fact, that the Commission unanimously supported the completion of the second reading and its final vote. Everyone didn't give a shit. I also think it is important to note, of course, that there were alternates for the two members of the Commission, but they were such dignified substitutes that this fact did not even reduce the real quality of the Commission's decision for a cent. So if these issues were not raised in the Commission, I understand the concept of coalition and opposition very clearly and unambiguously, then that is why we did not really dissect them. And once again, I congratulate the President of the sitting, who quite numerically pointed out what the law might be. Of course, it has been said, for example, that there are some individual ambassadors who do not belong to one group or another. But, dear friends, we also need to understand that there are 101 members in the Riigikogu. And in the case of special committees, there is, in fact, such an attitude that they could be relatively small and six [members] are possible. That, of course, will be decided by the board. As Mr Helme pointed out, the Bureau has discussed that this figure could be six, and he also described a possible distribution for you. In that case, 101 members of the Commission cannot be members of that committee by all those who want to. Of course, such political party- and political party-based management is clearly more effective than if there were 101 separate persons in the Commission and the Riigikogu. So in that sense, there is no reason to doubt anything. A lot has been asked whether we are creating something new or revolutionary. It has become like a huge revolutionary situation has now arisen. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the opposition and the coalition had equal seats in this very committee in the years 2007 to 2019, exactly the same [state of play] that we are offering with this draft. Now I ask whether the current members of the Riigikogu are worse, that we cannot effectively transport and deliver the Commission's work on this principle of equal distribution. I wouldn't doubt that. I do not think that members of the Riigikogu are currently worse than members of the Riigikogu between 2007 and 2019. Some other colleagues have asked whether parliamentary scrutiny will now become worse or better by adopting this decision. I say that parliamentary control, especially parliamentary control by the opposition, will become much more effective and weightier than it was in the last two years. It has also been pointed out repeatedly that indeed, in the last two years, the opposition was in a minority in this very Commission. Today, in the light of this draft, we have nevertheless proposed that the opposition and the coalition have equal seats in the Commission. This actually means that the voice of the opposition in this committee will grow in comparison with what it had in the last two years. Of course, we have not actually changed this principle either, and it is a perfectly correct principle that in this committee, and in the same way in the Special Committee on Anti-Corruption, the chair of the committee belongs to the opposition. Again, I would not underestimate the chairmen of the Commission either. It is, in fact, a certain mistrust if you think that the current chairmen of the committee are unable to manage these committees effectively. I would not underestimate these committee presidents. However, the chairman clearly has a greater role to play in organising the work of the Commission than the ordinary member. There is no change here; both this committee and the chair of the Special Committee on Corruption belong to the opposition. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to recall a very simple principle. There has been repeated talk of an agreement here. I would remind you that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, with the agreement of the initiators of this draft, has already submitted it in a modified form for the first reading. Perhaps we have taken into account the critical comments made by opposition parties and the draft has received a very significant substantive change. I have reason to recall, ladies and gentlemen, the leaders of both political groups and political parties represented in the Riigikogu, that: we agreed that we would form these committees on these principles and on these grounds. In fact, one of the signs of this was that no amendments were received to these draft decisions. I sincerely want to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for this agreement. Only in such a way that the two sides, both the opposition and the coalition, are certainly the most effective means of ruling and leading the country. Once again, sincerely thank you for this agreement. So, in any case, I call for this draft decision to be supported. Once again, I very much hope that opposition parties will also vote in favour of this draft, because it is indeed enough for the coalition to vote, but I would remind you that this agreement should still last a little more than a few weeks. Thank you very much. I call for this bill to be supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U144	Peter Ernits, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U145	[[Remote connection]] I think I can count within five. Mr Kivimägi, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, said that if the voice of the opposition is now strengthened, if one more is added by the coalition. How is that? We already have three oppositions and two coalitions. How does this math work now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U146	Toomas Kivimägi evidently referred to what was the balance during the previous government when the opposition had a minority. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U147	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good people who are watching us over the Internet! A little translation of the things that Toomas Kivimäe said about how these things are really and really. Previously, yes, the principle was that the opposition would have an advantage on these committees. Then it turned out, we can say, the Reform Party, they had become the creators of the light of truth from the starship to the earth, who wanted the coalition to have an advantage. And now they say that on this we have reached a compromise, which means that there is one representative of all political parties, but the coalition puts another one. There's another one of those little little tantrums on the man. But let's go back a little bit. Remember, a year ago, we had these emptyhearted people. Well, a regular person has a heart pumping blood, and he's in a good mood. But then they started putting these empty hearts everywhere. And that is what shows that there are also special need ambassadors among us who do not feel confident, and they need to be placed with a party mentor. Just like two and a half men. So it's not bad at all if the press is now picking up, if it does, because for them, it's all winks-vonks-ideal, there's no corruption, and there's nothing. [and decides that] if you still need to blow out empty hearts, then corruption might be a little bit. And the point is, if there's already a middle party there, but he's working like a half, we'll send him another half, they'll give him two together like one middle party. Or it's exactly the same in the Reform Party. Now, today we have had a lot of silence with Jürgen Ligi, who has been chairman of the previous committee. Could he describe the situation that if the previous coalition had proposed and told us that it was not very suitable for us, we would add one more person? You see, of course, it was remarkable that Toomas Kivimägi spoke here about the principles and how these principles were changed and how quickly these principles were changed. First of all, the idea came out that we would still put the coalition on these committees in a way that would be superior to the coalition. That was the principle. Some people die for their principles. Then they agreed that all right, maybe the opposition is complaining, but now let's make every party in the opposition have one, but because we have people who are trying so hard here, but it doesn't work out, we're gonna put them like a supporting staff or a supportive partyman next to it. And that's a new principle again. We are also talking about the fact that we have an established practice in Parliament, and on this basis, these committees have been set up all along. This means that these practices are in the way of time. There's a lot of us, I don't know, snowflakes or oatmeals, or who they were, who, if they don't get anything, will trample their feet and slice the inventory into little washers. Oh, we're gonna need this shit! Maybe we need to take into account the specifics. The special feature of the current government is that they just whine and whine. They always want them to have a path to power, in any case, and that nothing happens in a way that has not been planned in advance. I do enjoy the format of teleworking offered by the coalition or being away from work, but I still don't want that extra time. It's awful that we've got so many people trying to get here now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U148	Mr. Ernits, you have a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U149	[[Remote connection]] Yeah, I have a procedural question. I would very much like it to be as we have agreed that we will see our colleagues. Mr Kruusimäe spoke about people with disabilities. I ask the President whether it is known what a handicap colleague on Kruus Hill is, that he is hiding behind such a flickering picture. Is he in the sink or is he in bed somewhere? Should such hiding continue?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U150	Thank you. Just as we have agreed on several occasions here, we could use the maximum video opportunity in a remote session. If the Internet connection is poor, then we have also accepted that there is only audio connection. But indeed, if there is a way to turn the video on, all of us who are watching this session would be more comfortable and better to listen to the waitresses first and foremost. So I'm asking you to stick to it if you can. Mr. Kruusimäe, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U151	[[Remote connection]] Yeah, I have a procedure. Perhaps even the President of the sitting knows that it is not possible for the ambassador to turn the camera on or off here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U152	Yes, it is. Mr. Kruusimäe, it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U153	I'm telling Peter Ernits I'm not turning on the camera right now because I'm still dressed. But actually, we're gonna enjoy this stupid teleworking format that we're gonna have to use here until the end of the month. And I'm not surprised if the coalition says we're gonna be doing all the long-distance sessions in June.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U154	Mr. Kruusimäe, this is not procedural now. Do you have a procedural question? You don't have a reply right now. Mr. Kruusimäe!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U155	Come on! Did you see the picture?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U156	Mr. Kruusimäe, this is not procedural. If you have a procedural question, ask. This is the form of the question, not the reply or the answer procedure. So I didn't hear that right now, so you had a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U157	But I'm not asking.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U158	Very good! Then we finish this [dialogue] right now and move on to the rejoinder of Evgeny Ossinovsky. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U159	First of all, as a reception, I really do thank Peter Ernitsa. On a number of issues, we do indeed share views, also in the context of this draft. I would also like to comment on the speech by Mr Kivimäe, the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, where there was also a reference to my views. Very skilled demagoguery from Mr Kivimägi, it almost sounded as a result of this draft, in fact, parliamentary control and supervision are getting better and better for the government instead. Well, let us be honest, today's situation is that, according to the principles that have been applied in the past, other political changes in these committees have resulted in the opposition's superiority, which in fact allows effective monitoring of the government's activities both within this committee and in the Special Committee on Corruption. This is actually very good from the point of view of a parliamentary democratic state. And in this situation, the Government Union has actually decided to take parliamentary control by sending in a government union politician, who will become dependent on or, more generally, dependent on the coalition, whether the meetings are held, whether the agendas of the sittings are confirmed, whether it is possible to summon persons, whether the data can be demanded. All of this becomes coalition-controlled, and as such, of course, the effectiveness of parliamentary control will be reduced, the political responsibility of the government will be reduced, which is actually the purpose of this draft. This objective is not to allow Parliament to monitor the government more effectively, but to actually simplify the life of the government by castrating the means of parliamentary control, and that is why it is a bad proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U160	Mr. Kivimägi, do you have a procedural question or do you want a reclining? You have a chance to do this in your own right, because you spoke during the negotiations and once you can say the reclining. Mr. Stone Mountain, which one do you want to use?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U161	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. In fact, I never mentioned the name of Evgeny Ossinovski. Maybe you'll give me a little explanation. Even if I don't mention his name but touch on his position, is there a way to rejoinder him or not? But I'm gonna take that rejoinder opportunity. Indeed, we are not creating anything new. I would remind Mr Jevgeni Ossinovski once again that the entire three Riigikogu formations, between 2007 and 2019, both the coalition and the opposition had equal representatives on this very committee. Exactly the same [situation] we now want to create. And the President of the previous sitting very nicely drew attention to this when it was a question of how things would get better. I repeat: January 2019 to 2021 was the opposition in this very Commission in a minority. If now the opposition and the coalition get equal numbers of seats, then in fact, I am absolutely convinced that everyone will understand this by the voice of the opposition in this committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U162	Let's take that as a recliner. To make it clear, Mr Ernits did indeed mention Mr Ossinovski, so Ossinovski did indeed have the opportunity to object. But here, on this point, I'm gonna finish the negotiations. There have been no amendments to this draft. We can go to the proposal of the lead committee, namely, we need to have a final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I would like to put to the vote before you the decision of the Riigikogu on the amendment of the Riigikogu's decision "Construction of the Special Committee on State Budget Control" submitted by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Estonian Central Party. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U163	54 ambassadors supported the draft, 35 against. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U164	Our third item is the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the amendment of the decision of the Riigikogu on the establishment of a Special Committee against Corruption, submitted by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Estonian Central Party.337 The second reading is presented by Oudekki Loone, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U165	[[Remote connection]] Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was also dealt with by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 11 May. He had passed the first reading in the Riigikogu plenary on 3 May. The deadline for submitting amendments was 7 May at 4 p.m. There were no amendments to the draft decision, so the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not see the need to open the debate. We made the following procedural decisions: to propose a draft to be put on the plenary agenda by 18 May 2021 (consensus) and to propose that the second reading of the draft be stopped and the final vote on the draft (also by consensus). Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U166	You have questions too. Tarmo Kruus Mountain begins. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U167	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Each committee should also have a "specialist." I haven't checked everyone's records. But do I get it right that a person from the Commission is now being added to it with a proper experience of corruption like this? Then it would be that a man knows or a woman knows what he's talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U168	[[Remote connection]] Good questioner, I am convinced that all Members of our Parliament know what they are talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U169	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U170	Thank you. Well, this bill is similar to the previous one. The Commission's aim to reduce the parliamentary control rights of the opposition is the same. Could you comment on the opinion expressed by Toomas Kivimäe, which he expressed here at the end of the previous draft? Since he is the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, he must have expressed these views at the committee meeting. Namely, there are currently three representatives of the opposition and two representatives of the coalition on these committees. The purpose of this draft is to add one coalition member. This would create a balance of votes that would actually make it impossible to summon and collect data, for example, ministers, other politicians or officials, without agreeing with the members of the coalition. In what way did Toomas Kivimägi explain this? Do you feel the same way? How do you comment on this question? Does this draft make parliamentary scrutiny better or worse than the opposition's view of the current situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U171	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Toomas Kivimägi was very clear and compared the change in the composition of this committee to the situation that existed during the previous government. And indeed, during the previous government coalition, coalition parties had a majority in these committees. Now this draft proposes that we set up this committee in this Parliament in such a way that both the opposition and the coalition have an equal number of seats guaranteeing greater rights for both sides. And for my part, it requires that we reach an agreement. You yourself spoke very clearly about the need for agreements when dealing with the previous draft. The content of this draft is also very much to demand that the Riigikogu Group cooperate with each other.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U172	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U173	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good waitress! In the previous formation, Katri Raik held a vote on the Louis Freeh case and, of course, received his wish. But my question to you: is such a vote even competent in the Special Committee? Did Katri Raik in the previous composition do so according to the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U174	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. The personal question of Katri Raig was not discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and I really do not have any opportunity to evaluate it here. Indeed, we discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at the February session, when we discussed the first version of this draft, which had been presented on the basis of a different kind of principle after that, however, we were looking for an agreement between all the parties represented in the Riigikogu, then in the debate on 23 February I really raised the question that maybe we could look for a compromise elsewhere instead of how we form them, but what are our decision-making mechanisms. I suggested that these committees should only take decisions in a consensual manner, because then we would also very much guarantee the rights of the opposition and demand more effective cooperation. But we did not discuss this issue further. Later, when we were negotiating with all the parties, the revised shape of this draft was born, which is in front of us today. And I am really happy to say that I recall what I began my presentation with, that this proposal, as amended, to send the bill to the Chamber, to finish the second reading and to hold the final vote on the draft, was supported by the representatives of all the political groups: Mart Helme, Toomas Kivimägi, Andrei Korobeinik, Lauri Läänemets, Paul Puustusmaa, Urmas Reinsalu, Martin Repinski, Marko Storm and Mart Võrguship. Representatives of all political groups. None of them raised any new questions. At that point, the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs had a very clear understanding and a very clear mandate from their political groups, which means what it means. Personally, I would add that, of course, the more consensual decision-making, especially in places of this kind, the better. That's my personal opinion. But we really touched on this only very briefly throughout this long period, when we have discussed the three drafts that we have planned today.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U175	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U176	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Obviously linguistically, something must have been lost, but I will specify: only the chairman of the political party funding monitoring committee there thought that I was responsible for some kind of corruption. Later, he didn't think so. So it doesn't make sense to take all the ambassadors here by the corruptness of your party and to think that everyone has a history of corruption. That is why I am now asking again: does today's corruption government, as it is called in the press, have a plan to plant a person with proper experience of corruption in the Commission there?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U177	[[Remote connection]] I don't know if I should thank you for such an interesting question. But I can certainly say that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs never discussed who specifically the political groups intend to propose as members of the committee. That is not our competence either. And we didn't talk about it. It was only mentioned that it is indeed the political groups that will appoint their representatives. The question came up about what happens to the non-attached Members, but we did not discuss any of the ambassadors in the name. And this principle of how the political groups appoint their representatives to these committees remains the free choice of the political groups.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U178	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U179	Good manager! Good waitress! I'm not going to go ahead here. In the Special Committee on State Budget Control, this risk is that the coalition is going to silence unpleasant things, much smaller because there is a National Audit Office that is doing its job anyway and it is difficult to get a hat in his head, he comes out with his reports, but this corruption committee does not have a body that would come, regardless of whether the coalition is trying to put a hat on the Commission or not. My question: do you think that the risk of shutting down the Committee on Corruption is greater than that of the Special Committee on National Budget Control?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U180	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for that question. I see that all of our Members take their role very seriously in controlling the work of the government, and I see no threat to our democracy or that Parliament is somehow giving up its work here. Indeed, colleagues, I congratulate you all very much. And I see that this debate today, too, is an excellent demonstration of how serious Parliament is taking its control role. I believe that it will also be taken so seriously in the committees that we are building, and that there will be no threat to our democracy.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U181	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U182	Thank you. In your first reply to me, you assured me that the opposition's position in these committees is actually getting worse with this draft. Thank you for that honest confession. You justified this by the need to balance the interests of the coalition in the Special Committee on Corruption. Can you explain for a while what interests these are that need to be balanced in this way? After all, the general principle is that this type of parliamentary control work is carried out more effectively by the opposition. Perhaps as an extension of this issue, hypothetically, we imagine that some of the members of our government will, for example, become suspicious of the corruption crime, and the Commission would like to invite it to report before the Commission, which would be purely thoughtful, but in this situation the coalition would block it. How, then, should the Chairman of the Corruption Commission resolve this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U183	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I hope that nothing like this will happen, and I believe that in this government, people will certainly be ready to explain to Parliament all kinds of backgrounds, all kinds of problems. I am also absolutely convinced that the chairman of the audit committee is politically capable of resolving this issue. We are not sitting in this courtroom, we are sitting in Parliament and we have all the political levers to influence ministers, if necessary, to take political responsibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U184	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U185	Good manager! Good waitress! We have now discussed the subject of special committees at length and how members of the Riigikogu are elected there. Can you explain to us what's gonna get better now that we're changing laws and making decisions here? On the opposition and coalition side, members of the Riigikogu are equally represented compared to the current situation, where one member of all the political groups of the Riigikogu is represented.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U186	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. This level playing field, once again, is my personal opinion, which obliges the opposition and the coalition to cooperate with each other, in particular the coalition to take significantly more account of the opposition. So I think it's a good step in itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U187	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U188	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for the floor. Dear waitress, One side is the theoretical side that's going to happen. But we actually saw, in practice, last week, a situation in which doubts have come to the public that the current President of the Riigikogu, in his office as Prime Minister, has not only behaved in ethical terms questionablely with the state's resources, but there is also a suspicion that this use of money may also have been corrupt. In such a situation, it is elementary that the Corruption Commission is investigating it, but we saw that the coalition members did not want to have such an appointment. What happens in the future if they can block it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U189	[[Remote connection]] Continuingly, I think that these totally insane accusations thrown up in the press will disappear quite quickly, seeing how openly and clearly the Speaker in office has shown how the money was used at the time and has never refused to provide Parliament with any explanations. Even when it is clear to all sane people that there is no more problem. The example of the current speaker is indeed excellent. This shows that even with the slightest doubt about the present coalition, people respect Parliament and always come to explain. I've never seen or seen our Speaker say he wasn't talking about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U190	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U191	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! You answered my previous question at the end that this amendment to the law must give more consideration to the opposition. If I look now, there are currently three members of the opposition and two members of the coalition. The Special Committees have mostly been set up as the government and coalition are, like, on the control side, and the opposition has the only way to ask through these committees, make inquiries and discuss these issues. Why does the current coalition want to take this opportunity away from the opposition?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U192	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Also in the previous Riigikogu, let's say, in the case of the previous coalition of government, there was in fact a majority of government departments on these special committees. At first, this coalition also thought that it should continue this practice, but then, in cooperation with all the other parties, we realised during the discussions that such an arrangement was not actually reasonable. And in order for us to make it, when we have five political parties, beyond some kind of stalemate, so that we can actually form these committees and they can actually work, we need to find such an agreement, a compromise that suits both the coalition and the opposition. This compromise came about in this wording, so that the forces themselves are equal. This is certainly not harmful to the opposition. In a sense, it is even useful because it forces the coalition to actually consider the opposition and to work together in real terms. I hope that, although there is always a voting mechanism in these committees, such a way of forming the work of these committees will lead to more of a style of voting as little as possible and seeking consensus. And I believe that this attempt at consensus is the most effective way of verifying that the government is in no way exceeding its powers.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U193	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U194	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Good waitress, I agree very much with you. If there are similar reservations that we now have freshly raised with regard to the former Prime Minister, the Speaker, the only possible way to dispel them is to answer the questions openly and clearly. But it requires an opportunity to answer these questions. The ambassador of the Centre Party and Reform Party in this committee did not want to give this opportunity to the former Prime Minister, the current Chairman of the Riigikogu. They felt that such a meeting did not need to be held at all, that these questions did not need to be asked and that they did not need to be answered. If they will be able to block everything in the future, and if that is the attitude, then doubt will no longer be dissipated. That's my problem. How do you solve this problem when the proportions of composition change?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U195	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. If the representation of the coalition and the opposition is balanced, then both have equal blocking opportunities. This means that both political forces are the same. And this will certainly provide an opportunity to resolve all such problems with political mechanisms. I am convinced that if, for some reason, anyone should decide that the government does not have to account, although in fact I think it should and certainly it is important, the opposition will have exactly the same, equal opportunities to paralyse the Commission's work, so that it is not in the interests of the coalition either. I sincerely believe that, although this may take some time, this balance of power will eventually create a situation where, in fact, an agreement will be reached, including any possible action.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U196	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U197	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I very much support the Oudek principle that, in the case of special committees, there has been an important principle of consensus over time. I am really sorry about the chairmen of the Commission, both Eduard Odines and Urmas Reinsalu. I think that they are being badly harmed by underestimating their ability to effectively manage the work of the committees on the basis of this new principle. But I would remind my colleague Aivar Koka that between 2019 and 2021 February, when Fatherland was in government, the opposition was in a minority in the Special Committee against Corruption. And if this draft offers a balance between the opposition and the coalition, then, Oudekki, the question to you is: will opposition representation in the relevant committee increase or decrease?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U198	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. Indeed, I must reiterate that if we compare the Commission formed by the previous government coalition and what the current coalition proposes, we will see that the current government coalition offers a considerably more democratic solution, that is, where the voices of the opposition and coalition have equal weight.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U199	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U200	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I am glad to hear you do very nicely here, at least, dissect the work of this committee, which I am currently in charge of. But one of your lines made me think long enough, and that's why I decided to ask you. You mentioned that this balance, three and three, will eventually make the Commission work, act and work in practice. I have led the Commission so far with the knowledge that we are actually working and dealing with very important issues. Could you clarify your logic on how increasing the coalition's share and giving the possibility to block all decisions will actually make the Commission work?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U201	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Surely the Commission is still working in practice. All due respect to this committee! I think this is a very good committee. My explanation was about the hypothetical case if anyone in the coalition wanted to block what was happening in the Commission. I pointed out that in such a hypothetical case, the opposition has the same opportunities, and at one point this situation forces the opposition and the coalition to agree on something. I have to say that all the drafts being processed in committees are an excellent example of how agreements between the opposition and the coalition are born and how things are changed. From February to today, this principle of formation has, in fact, been thoroughly discussed in committees as well as between political parties and finally reached the compromise that is before you today. I really believe that you are an excellent committee chairman and will continue this very good work in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U202	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U203	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I listened to your explanations on political games, but I would like to invite you to the roots. Corruption is, I believe, a cancer that has spread everywhere and, unfortunately, also to our Parliament here. And now we have a special anti-corruption committee that should fight corruption. I'm listening to the story that one is blocking and the other isn't blocking, and then we'll find other political instruments. I think it's a lot of trouble. I'm just saying, this is bullshit. If we have corruption, we have to fight it, and we don't have any political trouble here. In normal life, however, the practice is that any control mechanisms are still in the hands of the opposition, who can thus exert real pressure on those in power.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U204	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Absolutely! When it comes to corruption, it must be fought. And I am absolutely convinced that, regardless of whether we are in opposition or coalition, we all want to fight corruption. All the more reason is that these people are equally there, because our goal is one: that corruption is not possible without corruption.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U205	Riina Sikkut.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U206	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, The opportunity to explain should make things clearer. If that doesn't happen, it's probably a bad bill. In this case, that is exactly the case. You explained in answer to the question by Aivar Koka, Indrek Saare, Eduard Odines, how this 3: 3 state of affairs in committees is good, how both have equal power, how political equality and equal opportunity to block things that are inappropriate for themselves. Immediately thereafter, you stated that we should work on the principle of consensus. That is a contradiction in itself. But when I come back to blocking it, I ask: why is it necessary to have an equal opportunity to block it? Is there an equal opportunity for the opposition and the coalition to use public money? Do you see that the risk of exercising influence and corrupting public money is now equal for the opposition and the coalition?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U207	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Consensus means that each member has a veto right, each member has a blocking right, essentially. So in this sense, it's like even greater equality. I am pleased that, in fact, our parliamentary practice is such that consensus is being sought in these committees. And they usually find that consensus, that's great. The work of a Member of Parliament, whether he is a member of the opposition or of a coalition, one of his important work is the supervision of the government, the overall supervision of the government. So in this sense, our role is similar.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U208	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U209	Thank you, Mr President. A representative of the good Commission. I'm glad to hear your claim that supervision of the government is a sacred task for all of us. When you answered previous questions, you mentioned that this draft will give both parties the opportunity to block decisions and moves, i.e. the opposition will have the opportunity to block and the coalition will also have the possibility to block. Well, why a coalition could block one thing or another, I understand. They may be uncomfortable about their own ministers or administration, and they do not want the Committee on Corruption to deal with and discuss these matters. That's why they're trying with their three votes to make sure these things don't get on the board of the special committee. But what interest should the opposition have in blocking something? What would the opposition block and block according to your thinking?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U210	Of course, there is always this interest in political interest.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U211	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U212	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I'm listening to you, and I think it's getting more confusing. You say one can block unpleasant things and the other can block unpleasant things. Political games. We're talking corruption! Do you understand, Oudekki Loone? If a thief has stolen, we're not going to the police to talk about whether we're making a deal in one direction or another, whether something's good for anyone or not. Or is that how it works now? Mysticism, I mean. Corruption is corruption, and if any clues have been found, then it must be dealt with, but not political agreements. Please at least try to understand the basic instruments of justice!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U213	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Indeed, the Centre Party and the Reform Party consider it very important that Parliament individually investigates cases of corruption, because it must be dealt with and must not be delayed for any technical reason. That is why we are here before you with this draft, on the basis of which a Commission would be set up to investigate possible manifestations of corruption. And I call on all my fellow Members to support this decision so that we can really start monitoring together and that corruption does not exist in our common lives.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U214	Mr. Ossinovski, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U215	Thank you. I think the rapporteur, from the tenth speech in a row, sounds as if these committees had not been set up and did not exist. On behalf of the Governing Board, could you confirm or contradict this statement? Has anything happened that this Riigikogu decision does not apply?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U216	The committees are working. Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U217	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! This is the third item on the agenda, where we are always talking about doing things together, there is a balance. The last point, in particular, was that we are going to do it together. Will there suddenly be a time when there will be no opposition and coalition in the Riigikogu? What happens then? Is that when it comes to joint and joint responsibility? There are now five political parties in Parliament, but then there will be joint government responsibility. So what's going to happen? With this option, I understand, this bill doesn't seem to have taken into account at all. What you're saying is that we do it together and together and together all the time. How do you feel about a time like this and what's gonna happen? Perhaps the Estonian people would even be delighted to have the case taken together instead of chemisting. How do you feel? And why has this possibility not been taken into account in this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U218	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. This is a concrete draft in this particular Parliament during this particular government coalition. Just as the previous draft was briefly discussed, these committees will be re-established each time. And sometimes the way in which it is formed is changed even during Parliament's term of office. So these committees are temporary by nature, not permanent, so maybe not all possible future leaders need to be taken into account here. It is by nature a temporary decision that we, here and now, in this composition and with such a coalition, consider it important to address these and these issues. One of the issues is corruption, which is an undoubtedly serious and important issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U219	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U220	Thank you, good manager. Well, I am pleased to hear the rapporteur confirm that corruption is a serious and important issue and that the common interest of all Members should also be to monitor the activities of the government. The members of the coalition did not support the strengthening of the ICTY. The members of the coalition did not support the formation of the Porto Franco Committee of Inquiry. The special committee, led by Eduard Odines, works very well. There are no concerns about the need for more coalition members; there is nothing to make the work more efficient. Can you tell us how coalition members deal with corruption? Why doesn't it look like anything? And why have opposition members not really been supported in this activity?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U221	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I believe that every ambassador works as well as he can and can in a particular committee. Finally, he gets an assessment of his work from voters. It shows how good and effective someone has been.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U222	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U223	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I do not wish to underestimate in the slightest the role played by this committee, as well as the work of the chairman of this committee. My ear, by the way, captured that Oudekki Loone greatly praised Eduard Odinets. So, on this basis, questioning whether or not the Commission exists is incomprehensible to me. But I want to remind colleagues that the Riigikogu does create justice, but does not understand justice. The law is understood by the court in the Republic of Estonia, but the preliminary work is done by the police, the defence police and the prosecutor's office. So, in this sense, you should not be overly concerned about the fact that corruption is not right away if some kind of balance is changing. I think these are completely unfounded and unfounded cases of fear. Once again, the investigation is conducted by the police, the defence police and the prosecutor's office, and the court has jurisdiction. My question to you, Oudekki, is: is that so?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U224	[[Remote connection]] Yes, Mr Chairman of the Commission, absolutely so. Our role is still political supervision, and therefore our discussions are only, say, in the dimensions of political supervision. So this clarification is very correct and excellent.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U225	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U226	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, It's been explained for a long time. I understand that the position depends on the seat and it is unlikely that the current coalition would have come up with a bill if there were three partners in the coalition and two in the opposition that we would make this thing more equal. Now the question about what happened in the Commission. Were you also discussing the possibility of such an equal balance in other committees? Because that makes the Commission's work better. It also obliges the coalition to seek cooperation and agreements with the opposition. What would be the problem if other committees were working on the principle of equality?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U227	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for that question. We did not have this debate in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U228	That concludes the questions. Before we go to the negotiations, we have been asked to discuss the extension of the sitting, and we need to vote it through. Ladies and gentlemen, the Estonian Reform Party Group has proposed to extend today's plenary session to a maximum of 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U229	81 members of the Riigikogu supported the proposal, 8 against. Let's get back to work. Now let's go to the negotiations. Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U230	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We have exciting topics today. As Chairman of the Special Committee on Corruption, I can and I would like to speak from the point of view of the committee that I chair, which is also understandable, because I know the internal life of this committee best. Look, ladies and gentlemen, what is really going on. In fact, the Reform Party and the Centre Party want to take control of what is happening in the Commission in order to control everything that is happening in the Commission. The selection of topics to be addressed, the adoption of the agenda, the decisions of the Commission, the conclusions of the Commission, the legislative initiatives, but even the election of the chairman of the committee will depend on the wishes of the Centre Party and the Reform Party. In implementing the new principles for setting up a special committee, the Commission actually loses one of its key roles: to be a watchdog over corrupt acts in the government. What parliamentary control over the activities of the executive, the prevention, detection and processing of possible corruption, can we talk about in the future? All of this remains at the mercy of the representatives of the parties of the executive power. We want, we promise to call the Prime Minister, we don't want, we don't. If there is an unpleasant subject to the Minister of the Centre Party or Reform Party, there is no need to deal with it, this does not concern the Commission. To propose to the government, to demand something from the government, no, for which it is not the Commission's business. I can give examples even in the days of my few months as chairman. One last example, which was already there today: inviting the former Prime Minister, Jüri Ratas, to the Commission. What do you think, ladies and gentlemen, who opposed this? Correct answer: Members of the Reform Party and the Centre Party. Or, for example, dealing with corruption tips in a special committee meeting. Or, for example, inviting the Director-General to a meeting. Who aren't very big supporters? You can see for yourself. We have come across this principle even when the agenda is adopted or even when sittings are cancelled. We have not yet reached this point that we are simply deciding not to show up so that the Commission cannot organise its work. If the members of the coalition voted against the formation of the Riigikogu Committee of Inquiry, this committee should have examined the feasibility, accuracy and fairness of receiving aid from the crisis measures, then the main argument was that it could be handled perfectly by the Special Committee on Anti-Corruption. I wouldn't be so sure about that today. If it is not acceptable for the Minister to raise matters in the area of one ministry or another, a friendly reference to the party's partner will suffice and this issue will never reach the meeting of the special committee. However, the legal clarity of the draft decision to be dealt with remains. Today, the representative of the Commission answered my first question on this subject, after all, that it is obvious what a coalition is and what an opposition is, and gave an example of its educational background. I'll bring back my education, too. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U231	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U232	Thank you. I'm a philologist. If I don't understand what one word or another means, I'll look it up in the dictionary. I watched it now. I looked at the Dictionary explaining the Estonian language, which is a coalition, and I read that it is a (temporary) alliance between parties to achieve common goals. According to this definition, the EKRE, the Fatherland and the Social Democrats as a whole can also be called a coalition. In this context, it's like everything's absolutely right. But these interpretations we've heard from the wall to the wall today, one more interesting than the other. For me, this issue of definition of coalition and opposition has not been resolved. I understand what these words mean in the political slang, but there are a lot of questions here at the level of legislation. Which way to classify a group that declares itself not to be a coalition or an opposition, but to act according to its true beliefs, but not according to partnership agreements? What to do in a situation where there is a minority government in the country? What rights do the political group have, not the members of the group, if not one or two, but, for example, a dozen? We have not actually received answers to these questions today. For this reason, it is a legal cull. The Social Democrats cannot support the draft decision, which creates confusion and allows very different interpretations, but in fact and essentially stifles anti-corruption activities at the level of the Riigikogu, turns the committee into a puppet in the hands of the government and deals only with matters that are comfortable for those in power. I therefore call on all my fellow Members from other political groups not to support this draft in order to maintain the independence, operationality and efficiency of the fight against corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U233	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U234	Honourable Riigikogu! When I listened here today to this debate and the debate on the draft decision, I did wonder whether we needed such a committee at all. Because it's all pointless what we do here. First of all, I shall say what the Special Committee on Corruption is doing for the initiative. I will read what is written on our Riigikogu website. "The Special Committee on Anti-Corruption of the Riigikogu ensures that the anti-corruption measures laid down in the laws of the Estonian state are actually implemented. The committee discusses and evaluates possible cases of corruption of the officials listed in the Act, monitors compliance with the operating restrictions of the members of the Riigikogu and checks declarations of interest. Once a year, the special committee gives the Riigikogu an overview of its activities." This is the principle that we should actually follow. But the explanations of the honorable waitress Oudekki Loone show that corruption is an empty matter, and there is no need to fight it. Let's put the members on equal terms, but one wants to block it, and it's never gonna work out. Then we find other political levers to influence all of this? I don't know. I told Oudekki Loone before, that if a thief steals, it's theft, and we're not going to make any deals here. Of course, it is certainly possible to conclude certain agreements at the police or the prosecutor's office due to a lack of public interest, so there will be no criminal prosecution. But I don't think corruption is the kind of crime that would suffer such agreements. However, at least for the time being, Oudekki Loone's explanations gave the impression that the draft proposed in this form was not intended to improve the functioning of the Special Committee on Corruption, but rather to take away the only weapons that could still be used against the coalition from the opposition. That's the result of this thing. Nor can I absolutely agree, let us say, with the explanation and question request of the President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, where he pointed out that neither the Commission understands justice, it is the court, and the police and the prosecutor's office or the defence police are involved in the investigation. Actually, I agree with that. I agree that this is the case. But we know our home dirty laundry [we wash at home and our problems] best in this house. That is why this very special anti-corruption committee, whatever the government is in the process, must retain the opportunity to hold the hand firmly and firmly on the pulse. And if there's anything, you have to notify the relevant authorities, the police, the DA's office, or anyone. This balance of political games, that we find somewhere else, we are in favour, we are against, is not possible. I'll give you an example of theft right now. There's no way we can make a deal about whether a thief stole a jar of jam or he didn't steal that jar of jam. Theft is theft, it remains a fact. I am not in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U235	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U236	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Well, most of the arguments against this bill are the same as they were against the previous draft. I'm not gonna say it again because that's where I gave the speech. But let me add a few more nuances to this. Mr Grünthal studied the website of the Riigikogu and the duties of this committee from there, but in fact the duties of this committee derive from the Anti-Corruption Act, its § 9. This means that the creation of this committee and the work of this committee, its tasks, are not really a question at the level of the Riigikogu's decision. The law of the Riigikogu has decided that such a commission is, and so is what it does. If the decision starts to paralyze the work with this committee, it will actually go against the idea of the same law that the Riigikogu commission should carry out these tasks. That's one. Second. Well, there has been a very demagogic attempt to blur the situation, both Mrs Loone and Mr Kivimägi. The first attempt has been to give the impression that there are no committees. The coalition would desperately like to investigate corruption, but you can't, because this bill has been being discussed since February, but still hasn't been adopted. Now, if we pass the bill today, we'll get the job started. These committees have been set up in 2019, as always at the beginning of each membership, and they work. I have to say, at least having been in one of these two committees, or as an alternate member of the National Budget Control Committee, several times in the last few months, that they have not worked so well for a long time. To be honest, there are actually calls for ministers, and these are really issues that are really important, not just technically substantive and ethical discussions. So the fact that it is now necessary to adopt this decision today in order for these committees to start working is not true. In fact, it's not true. These committees work and they actually work very well, without this law. The blurring and dim are, of course, the reference base for the situation. In today's position there is an advantage of the opposition. These committees will therefore be able to perform very well parliamentary scrutiny tasks. With this draft, the situation is getting worse, from the perspective of parliamentary scrutiny it is getting worse, because one coalition member is being added. Now what demagogy is about is that it is really possible to look for moments in history when it has been worse, and it is certainly possible to threaten to do worse. There are examples of the Prussian Parliament, where parliamentary scrutiny may not have been at all, I do not know if so, I am not a historian, but it is not adequate. The question is that today we have a special committee that is working to carry out its tasks. This draft, like the previous draft, is actually intended to restrict the right to parliamentary scrutiny by taking, as Mr Odines rightly pointed out, these committees, their work, their agendas and their conclusions, in fact, under the control of the coalition. I'd like some more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U237	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U238	Now there was a reference to not being a research facility. We have the police and the prosecutor's office, so let's not overestimate these committees. I really like the definition of "big and small corruption." Small corruption is what the police and the courts effectively deal with. For example, a policeman takes a bribe on the street, some city officials take a small decoration on the wall of their home for makin' a few tender terms. Indeed, law enforcement authorities have done very effective work in this area and the situation in Estonia has improved. I'm sure there's still a piece of work ahead of us, but no doubt they'll do better than that. In this sense, Parliament's committee has very little to add on these issues. Then there will be great corruption. Great corruption is what usually never gets to the courts, because it actually requires the highest level of political advantage to be given to one or another undertaking or person. These things are actually very difficult for law enforcement authorities to track and monitor. Undoubtedly, the dim funding of political parties is part of this great corruption. Although we have indeed had cases when they have reached a court through law enforcement agencies. However, in those matters where it may not actually be possible to prove to the end even judicially, it is not only possible to make a social moral assessment, but it is a duty. The corresponding committee in Parliament will certainly carry out this task in accordance with the same law, which gives the right precisely to evaluate this type of action. With Mr Grünthal, I do not agree with the fact that this draft will take the last weapons from the opposition. Look, there's a difference. The reason why these committees have always been set up differently than permanent committees is because the permanent committee needs to ensure that the weather views are representative according to Parliament's general logic. In these committees, we make weather choices according to the mandate we have received from our electorate. That is the essence of Parliament. However, special committees have assumed that no weather work is being carried out. The fight against corruption is not a weather fight. All parties in Parliament, regardless of whether they are conservative or social democratic, should condemn corruption. In the same way, regardless of the weather, the rational and efficient use of state budget resources should be our common goal. It is just that it has always happened in a way that is understandable that this non-visible role is better performed by the opposition in fact, because they do not have such a conflict of roles that they have to control their friends and colleagues. It's as simple as that. What is being attempted now is that we agree that the opposition should have consent to a coalition in order to go and control the coalition. No coalition's politically responsible agencies or ministry control. It's just as good if the board of some institution appoints an external auditor to check the operation of the board, goes into the building and they say we'd like to go to the basement, but the board says no, let's not go to the basement, we'd better go to the fifth floor, we'll be fine there. Then they go there, they go through it, they make an audit report: great, so beautiful the fifth floor hasn't been anywhere else. Actually, there's a problem somewhere else, but we couldn't go there because we couldn't reach an agreement with the board. Of course, that would be absurd. It is just as absurd, in fact, that in order to carry out parliamentary scrutiny on corruption issues and on state budget matters, the opposition should actually agree on a coalition whose interests in this matter are clearly understandable and humanly contradictory. This is a draft designed to castrate the fight against corruption at the level of the Riigikogu. This is a bad bill, it must be voted against.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U239	I'm closing the negotiations. No amendments have been tabled. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put to the vote before you the decision of the Riigikogu on the amendment of the decision of the Riigikogu on the establishment of a Special Committee against Corruption submitted by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U240	56 members of the Riigikogu supported the proposal, 37 against. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U241	Let us move on to the fourth item on the agenda. Indrek Saare, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Jürgen Ligi, Signe Riisalo, Yoko Alenderi, Helmen Küti, Lauri Läänemetsa, Siret Kotka, Andrei Korobeinik, Raimond Kaljulaid, Oudekki Loone, Katri Raigi, Jüri Jaanson, Toomas Kivimägi, Johannes Kerdi, Mart Võrvala, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Kalvi Kõik, Jaak Juske, Riina Sikkut, Heljo Pikhofi, Liina Kersna and Madis Milling initiated the Act on the Protection of Animals and Amendment of the Nature Conservation Act 219. We're in the middle of a second reading. The presentation is made by Peeter Ernits on behalf of the Environment Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U242	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, It's such a fun morning today. But I'll keep going. We've been trying for a long time now to destroy bear breeding. This has been discussed in a number of configurations and we are now in the next stage. We have discussed this twice in the Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu, in its current composition. I would remind you that the first reading was completed in the previous composition of October, 15 October, and this draft stopped. But on April 6, we discussed the first time and on May 11, the second time this year. We are talking about this draft, which is presented under the leadership of the Social Democrats and in the close ripping of colleagues from the Reform Party, numerically. Today, a large number of performers are already in the government of the Republic or run a large city. But that's it. Now what happened on April 6. I am not going to read everything out, for example, that the Members of the Commission were all present both the first and the second time, in the minutes all of this is there. Yoko Alender, our chairwoman, said that in the meantime he had turned to the Committee on the Environment [University of Tartu] Chair of the Department of Zoology, Professor Saarma, who believes that fur farms should be banned because of the risks associated with pathogens spread from animals to humans, about coronavir. The second address was from the law firm Ruus & Veso, whose clients are the Estonian Bear Farmer Breeding Association and the Estonian Bear Association. They made an appeal to the Chancellor of Justice to get his opinion on whether what we are dealing with here is already unknown for several times, in accordance with the Constitution and good administration. Yoko Alender also pointed out that the explanatory memorandum contained such a sentence that the proposed ban only covers fur farming where fur production is the only and main objective. This means that sheep farmers and rabbit farmers can breathe peacefully. Merike Linnamägi said that the position of the Ministry of the Environment has changed in the meantime. I would remind you that in the past, the state authorities, both the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Rural Affairs, were of the opinion that such a matter should not be dealt with. But now, with the arrival of a new minister, the opinion of the Ministry of the Environment has changed. Merike Linnamägi said it. Corona virus spread in fur farms has been the reason for the position. In the event that someone in Estonia wishes to open a fur farm, the Ministry of the Environment will inform the companies, but there is no basis for banning the creation of fur farms. That's the opinion of the current minister. Timo Suslov, a colleague, said at the first session that he would support the draft. According to his information, there are plans to ban fur farms in Finland in the near future. Yoko Alender said that this information should be specified. Pille Tammemägi said that the Ministry of Rural Affairs had not changed its position. His point of view was, and is, and will remain, that it is not necessary to deal with such a matter. He said that if the animal welfare and health requirements were met and the animals were kept under the conditions laid down by law, there was no reason to prohibit the rearing of fur animals. The main message of the sector is that any decision is better than indecision. In fact, that is once and for all, and this confused situation is not beneficial to anyone, especially to entrepreneurship. He said that companies have also proposed their preferred scenarios. It is proposed that, if continued rearing of fur animals is allowed, it should be agreed that it should not be renegotiated for a certain period. That's what we've been doing here many times. In the event of a ban on fur production, it would be important to have a compensation mechanism and a transitional period. If it is decided to ban them immediately, both expenditure and expenditure will be compensated for over a period of time. A representative of the Ministry of Rural Affairs also said that there is an opinion of the European Food Safety Authority on the effects of the corona virus on the cultivation of mints. It states that links have been established, but from the scientific point of view it has not proved to be transferable and has not led to more serious consequences than other cases. The chairman of the committee, Yoko Alender, then said that the compensation could be discussed in the future. I said that the opinion of my colleague, Urmas Saarma, does not make a good impression. Otterma said that when you read reports from the world's leading organisations, the risks are very low. I said that the intimidation with coronavir in the case of mints is clearly overexploited. I can also repeat that. I also said there that one in five of Wuhan's domestic cats had antibodies by April, and certainly there are also coronavir infected cats in Estonia. I said that hopefully there will be no plan soon to kill the site because they are at risk of infection with the virus. If you look at the probability that domestic cats and mints are infected, then the level of risk is equal. I also noted that a derogation should be made for chinchilja, as the corona virus spreads to cats, gorillas and humans, but it does not come on to chinchiljas, like mice and rats. The growth of chinchillas is also a useful economic activity, as it does not require large estates and is very profitable. I concluded by saying that Finnish fur breeding is one of the largest in European countries and, according to my information, it is not planned to ban fur farms in Finland. This was said in response to Mr Suslov, who thought it would be the case. Heiki Kranich said that he felt it was impossible to achieve anything by banning it. But my colleague has changed his mind and said that no compensation should be asked. I said that I certainly would not support this bill because it is a classic market struggle and people are currently being intimidated by the proliferation of the corona virus on some farms. Well, we haven't had any farms or trips in a long time. Mr Metsoja said that he felt that all the possibilities for compensation should be discussed, and he examined the international practice. Pille Tammemägi promised to send statistics, but added that large bans have been combined with both a transitional period and compensation. I asked the representative of the Ministry of Rural Affairs if there was any information on the banning of fur farms in Finland. Pille Tammemägi replied that the Ministry had no such information. April was that. Tammemägi said that in Finland the pressure to ban is high, but it is not known that it plans to close up fur farms. Mr Alender said that the Commission would continue the debate. Then Kalvi Tõvi asked Evgeni Ossinovsky as a dove to tell us that there is no point in waiting for the Chancellor of Justice's position. I would remind you that the Chancellor of Justice was approached for an opinion. Now they found that we were going to do it right away, but the chairman of the committee, Yoko Alender, said that we would still wait for what the Chancellor of Justice said. This was the first debate on 6 April. The second debate took place on 11 May. I'm not going to read it. Hendrik Kuusk, Deputy Chancellor of Agriculture and Rural Policy Marko Gorban and Chief Specialist Merike Linnamägi of the Department of Nature Conservation of the Ministry of the Environment also participated. Yoko Alender then said that the first reading of the bill was completed, and the proposal is that the law enter into force on 1 January 2026. Licences already issued would then be valid until 31 December of the previous year [i.e. 2025]. He said that the explanatory memorandum also included the possibility of a support measure for companies wishing to start farming something else. Mr Metsoja said that the livestock farmers had made investments and asked whether compensatory measures were also intended. Now comes the interesting information. The Deputy Secretary-General of Food Safety, Hendrik Kuusk, said that the availability of sources of funding is a prerequisite for all forms of support. During the debate on the draft proposal, it was considered that it would be good to have this aspect clearly stated and furnished. That's what the Vice Chancellor said. And he also said that the budget of the Ministry of Rural Affairs does not currently provide a cent for expenditure on banning fur farms. You might want to remember that. Marko Gorban, from the ministry, said that fur farmers have the opportunity to apply for aid that already exists if they want to engage in other forms of farming or if they want to receive support for the processing of agricultural products, etc. But the basic story that Deputy Chancellor Kuusk was saying was that there was no money. Mr Ossinovski said that in reality, fur farms are micro-enterprises for whom fur production is a side business, and they can carry on peacefully with the support proposed. I asked if the Ministry of Rural Affairs had changed its previous official position on bear breeding. The earlier position was in May. Diversifying and maintaining entrepreneurship is necessary and chinchillas should not be included in the list of mints, as they can also be grown for meat production. Vice Chancellor Kuusk said that the Ministry of Rural Affairs has not changed its official position, once again, as it was before, so far. He said that chinchillas can still be grown for meat production, but the company must clearly define that they are grown for meat production and that valuable fur is a by-product. I can tell you, colleagues, from outside the protocol that I have eaten chinchillas in Latin America, it is delicious. It's just that we don't eat it here, the skin's basic. But this belief [as described above] came from the Ministry of Rural Affairs. Mr Metsoja said that, as a legislator, it is difficult to accept that a very important change is being made in the judicial area, even though this has been discussed at length. He said that if we prohibit anything, but the company that has a profit and loss analysis and a business plan is behind it, it is appropriate in the rule of law that in this case a compensatory measure should be provided to the company. But if we just say, in parallel with other companies, apply for no investment grants just like that. It's not fair. In a state of law, an undertaking must have the right, as a fundamental right, to abandon its activities and not to make it diversify its activities. Yoko Alender said that it was for this reason that the Ministry of Rural Affairs turned to companies during the procedure and asked them what they thought about it. Mr Metsoja pointed out that subsidies and compensatory measures were two different things. Yes, it is. Hendrik Kuusk, Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, replied that during the procedure of the draft, the Ministry of Rural Affairs turned to economic operators and the answers received were from the wall to the wall. The main reference was that it would be good to receive compensation for the winding-up of companies. For example, Balti Fur said they had made investments for 10 million. Smaller entrepreneurs, Chinchilla growers, however, pointed to job losses. They also pointed out that fur farms cannot simply be reprofiled for the rearing of other animals. Then came the guest speaker, guest ambassador Oudekki Loone to our commission. He said he was behind the bill. He said that the conditions under which fur animals are reared were not species-specific. Animals must not be tortured. When businesses are closed, it is also important to think about fair treatment of people, etc. He asked if it was intended to make a support programme so that companies that have today raised fur animals for skin purposes would be profiled as skin processors. Yoko Alender replied that reprofiling qualifies for support and said that it is estimated that 11 people in this sector are covered, that the fight is for 11 people, more than half of whom are of retirement age. Marko Gorban, of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, said that support for diversification of economic activities in rural areas is intended to enable companies to diversify their activities and that fur farmers already have access to this support. Oudekki Loone found that if the state takes an active position in banning farms, a training programme should also be provided. Mr Ossinovski was now speaking. He said that since the transition period is five years, fewer companies will have to be resolved and put in place by the executive. Ossinovski said that it would be possible for the executive authorities to develop measures over this long period of time, while micro-enterprises have an own contribution rate of 40% in the diversification measure, but public farmers, for example, have 100% coverage. He continued that, for example, fur farms would benefit from a 15% own contribution rate when applying for money. Mr Ossinovski concluded that when the Riigikogu passed the law, it was important for the executive authorities to respond to it and to find solutions to the issues that arose. Marko Gorban, of the Ministry, said that due to the specific nature of the European Union's common agricultural policy, many rules will also be passed on to Estonia. In new cases of business support, the rate of support can be 50%. There are also exceptions in which cases the aid rate can be increased by 20%. I said there and I repeat here that I like the long transition period. That's far enough. In the meantime, political power will change and there will also be reasonable improvements. I said that the Committee on the Environment could be based on the fact that diversity enriches rather than trying to reduce it. In addition, if we ban fur farms in Estonia, then in other parts of the world they are still grown and under worse conditions. Andres Metsoja asked: if the rearing of fur animals is no longer allowed in the legal area and the entrepreneur says that he does not want to start business again from scratch but wants to stop, where should he turn with his claim? Marko Gorban of the Ministry of Rural Affairs replied that if the Riigikogu supports the draft, there is an opportunity to find funds for specific compensatory measures during the state budget procedure. So I would stress this: if we adopt this draft, the state budget will have to be amended accordingly and the money that is not there at the moment will be found in the budget of the Ministry of Rural Affairs. The European Union's state aid rules make it possible to pay closure support in the form of compensatory measures, but this requires the European Commission to apply for a corresponding State aid authorisation. This means that it will not be enough if we find this money in the state budget in the autumn. We must also turn to Brussels first and ask for a state aid permit, and that will also take time. Mr Metsoja also said that, in this case, the explanatory memorandum should clearly state that there are concrete possibilities for compensation, otherwise there is no substantive interpretation of the subject. That's all I'm saying. There are three amendments, these are for deadlines, but I already said that in 2026 this should take place and these licences will end on New Year's Eve 2025. So, what else is important? I am not going to talk about the opinion of the Minister for the Environment about the immediate need to change, but it is important to think of Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise to understand it, although Mr Ossinovski felt that it was not worth waiting for. I'm going to read a few paragraphs here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U243	Good waitress, your time is almost over. Do you need a few more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U244	Yeah, if I had a few minutes, I'd read something out of Ülle Madise's opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U245	Well, let's do it for two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U246	Yes, thank you! The Chancellor of Justice says that he is supervising, in particular, the conformity of adopted acts with the Constitution. [First of all, there must be] what we can do, only then will he say, is it constitutional or not. It stresses that individuals have the right to freely choose their occupation and engage in entrepreneurship. Any restrictions, property rights, fundamental rights, etc., must be seen at a later stage. And the Riigikogu must find an appropriate balance when considering different interests. That is the position of the Chancellor of Justice. The restriction must also take into account the legitimate expectations of individuals to continue to exercise their fundamental right in this way. So I'm not gonna talk any further, but I'm gonna say the Chancellor of Justice will watch it when we're done. The Chancellor of Justice will then intervene and decide whether it is compatible with the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U247	The questions will be started by Priit Onion. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U248	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! I do not quite understand why and to whom this bill is needed, but I ask you about what you spoke about last time, namely how much was said in the Commission about restricting the freedom to conduct a business? Some of the parliament wants to decide that certain types of entrepreneurship must not be carried out in Estonia, although this has so far not been a problem for anyone. How many people and businesses are affected by this bill? If this bill were to become a law, who would have to review their actions and deal with something else? Most of these people are in rural areas. And to what you referred to here, how you could apply for one place or another, I understand that you yourself gave part of the answer, that there would be no compensation and that it would be almost impossible for these companies to reprofil themselves if I understood correctly.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U249	The background is that this dance has been here for a long time, both in the previous and the present composition. In this unclear and nervous environment, many fur farmers have shrunk their activities. Now, when the Korona and the Danish case came, bigger farms were left empty. In particular, we are talking about our farms in Karjaküla, which has been empty for a long time, there is no mention of any of them. There wasn't even a time when Professor Otterma was asked for his opinion. So completely such a topic that you might ask, but if there is no object anymore, [there is no point in discussing]. There are no foxes either. The number of Chinchilla growers is relatively low and has steadily decreased. This is not because this activity does not have a complexion and economic meaning. It's the other way around. But this nervous atmosphere has been going on for years, and people just don't want to deal with it anymore, though they might. As has been said here, those forces, non-profit organisations that are actively campaigning and behind our esteemed ambassadors, such as NGO Loodus and Invisible Animals, have more employees than those who have been actually producing lately. So that's the answer. The potential is great, and it was only me on the Commission that opposed the prohibition of certain branches of entrepreneurship. I have kept saying that this is not appropriate, but unfortunately my fellow Members have not been much more helpful.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U250	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U251	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mr President. Good Peter, correct me if I'm wrong about the facts. I have now realised that we are dealing with a law that we are restricting the work of 11 people, and we are also going to the restriction of the freedom to conduct a business. But the question is, actually, let me get this straight. As I read this amendment to the law that is being proposed, I understand that, as a result, there will be a procedure in the future under which chinchillas on meat farms, for example, are perfectly allowed and kosher, but are prohibited in fur farms.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U252	Thank you, my good colleague. I found out you were looking at me technically from this table. Yes, so, at this point in Estonia, chinchilla meat is largely not eaten, although, I stress, it is very tasty. I don't have anything else to say. The position of Vice Chancellor of the Ministry of Rural Affairs is what I said, and I like it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U253	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U254	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Well, I am, of course, pleased that the draft, which I have been the initiator of, is now on its way from that shelf during the new government. I understand that you have the opposite emotions. My question concerns compensatory measures, because indeed, as my colleague, onion says, this is an extremely important issue which really concerns the restriction of constitutional freedoms. Consequently, on the one hand, it is good to extend the agreement on the waiting time, but on the other hand, possible compensatory measures should be discussed. You quoted the minutes of the Commission's sitting, but my point in talking to Mr Gorban was that the Ministry of Rural Affairs could actually find a separate pocket for those owners of fur farms under special or simplified conditions, so that they could receive more support from there. You could tell me how you feel about it and what the Ministry of Rural Affairs thought about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U255	Yeah, I'll say it again. Of course it could be. Because at this point, I repeat the position of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, there is no money, no cents. In order to find something, it is necessary to ask Brussels for a state aid permit, but when it will come, and then it will also be possible to find these funds in the budget for the coming autumn. But I'll see what May... [[Browse papers.]] In addition, Marko Gorban replied that due to the specific nature of the European Union's common agricultural policy, many rules will also be passed on to Estonia and that in new cases of support for entrepreneurship, the rate of refund can be 50%. There are also exceptions to the case in which an additional increase of 20% can be made... But that's all I've said. That's all there was to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U256	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U257	[[Remote connection]] [[I can't hear the beginning.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U258	Yes, I was trying to be as correct as possible and not to extend the subject. We have discussed these matters both in the previous and present composition of the Riigikogu and, of course, I have also repeatedly spoken on this subject that this is only the beginning of animal husbandry and animal housing. But I would be happy to talk about it in my speech, where I will also give you the background of what this step really means. This is not some 11 people or some marginal sector [theme]. This is a very wide and very dangerous road to which our dear colleagues have taken at the whirlwind of certain two interest groups.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U259	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U260	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague Ernits! In the morning, we have dealt with balance issues in Parliament's work and very strongly talked about the balance between the opposition and the coalition. Now we have actually reached a balance with the next draft. If we ban something, it should be balanced. That is what the Chancellor of Justice says in his assessment of the Riigikogu. Unfortunately, I have not always been in the Committee on the Environment, in the meantime I have been absent, but this issue has been on the table of the Committee on the Environment for a long time. And actually, the sector says a better horrible ending than an endless horror. Do you believe that this balance point will be found if there is still work to do so and that this compensation mechanism is really being found and very clearly embodied in the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U261	Thank you, Andres! We have repeatedly spoken about this in the Commission, especially in the present composition. And I've also supported your position. But the ambiguity is still in my head, at least. I've already quoted the Vice Chancellor of the Ministry of Rural Affairs here. I'm not going to repeat that. I am not feeling very well about what this entails, particularly with regard to compensation and financial support. In addition, an action for 10 million Baltic Bearskin has not yet been brought because we have not finished the so-called product, but I am quite sure that it will come, and that is still a matter of its own. The investments are very high when I talk about Karjaküla, which is done. But now the wind weeps there, and all these expenses have gone empty, even though the conditions for the rearing of fur animals have been met by operators. We have some better animal conditions for keeping them. So it doesn't feel so good.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U262	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U263	Good manager! Good waitress! First of all, Peter, thank you for the information and clarification on what happened in the committee. But maybe you're overdrawing it. There was a number 11 that came through your report once. But how many fur farms are there in Estonia and how many people do this [area] work? Is there any record of how much tax there would be?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U264	Thank you, Aivar! I don't have the exact numbers in front of me right now, so I can send you the details later. But the number of people, yes, is now low. And since the main teacher was Balti Karuskõk in Karjaküla, which gave a large part of the work of the villagers of Karjaküla, and these people are now working mostly abroad or somewhere else, this figure has fallen drastically. But I'm not going to poet [some number] here right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U265	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U266	[[Remote connection]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U267	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U268	Doesn't this [problem] just seem hypocritical to you about wiping out and putting animals in significantly worse conditions?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U269	Thank you for your question. Of course, this is a highly hypocritical draft. It is as good or similar as trying to make the European continent the first climate-neutral continent, but let us forget that there are more continents on earth than Europe. There is no wall between the European continent and Asia and Africa or America, because the climate, the atmosphere, functions regardless of what is done in one corner of the pot. So it's a highly hypocritical undertaking.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U270	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U271	Thank you, Mr President. Good Peter! Don't be modest. If you have important background information about previous committee discussions, you can safely share it with the large Chamber of the Riigikogu. At the moment, you will be able to do so without a time limit, which may become an obstacle when we reach calls. But that's what I wanted to ask you. The Legal Aid Department of the Riigikogu also sent an opinion on this draft, and there were a number of shortcomings in the wording, which may give rise to disputes in later enforcement. Were these views also discussed and taken into account? Or what position did the Commission take in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U272	Thank you. It wasn't much discussed from what I remember. Of course, we could also talk about what we discussed when you were chairman of the committee, but it would probably take a long time. But you could do that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U273	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U274	Thank you for the floor. Dear waitress, Did the Commission's meetings also have a debate on what the role of these fur farms has been to reduce our natural diversity? Perhaps we know that Europe's mink, for example, has rejected us from Europe precisely because the American mink, or mink, has taken over nature. This means that people who are very committed to Estonia have been able to restore this population again in Hiiumaa, largely with the support of euro money. Especially in this context, where it seems that the more conservative the view of the world, allegedly, the greater the opposition to the ban on fur farms one day. This is in a way again contrary to what is being declared that such a traditional natural environment should be for conservatives...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U275	Question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U276	Were there discussions on these issues in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U277	Thank you for your question. There have been many of these discussions, as I have discussed this topic in several Riigikogu configurations and could talk for quite a while. As a zoologist, when it comes to this relationship between some European mink, I could tell you about these details for a very long time. But all I'm saying is that a mint hasn't been raised in Estonian fur farms in a long time. In the village of Karjaküla. We're only talking about Karjaküla, but there were other farms. If you've been to farms and you've looked at what's in there, you know they're still kind of camps where it's very difficult to escape. I'm telling you, I've been working on hunting wild animals and investigating them myself. Professionally looking at these facilities, these gardens and pens, which are double, plus the stains going into the ground, etc., I honestly say that it is almost impossible to escape from such a place when talking about if there were any. And these requirements correspond precisely to those of the European Union, including this European mink. Indeed, one of them, namely the Mink, is more aggressive and larger and has extinct the European mink, which has now been successfully restored to Hiiumaa, above all. But even if there were any, the probability of getting out of there is tiny, it's more theoretical. So this is not a substantive issue at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U278	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U279	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Good Peter! Henn Põljaas has already actually touched on this subject, which I wanted to address myself in my own question. In fact, we live in a global world and we cannot boil only vegetable soup in one corner in this common kettle. It is certainly a very noble way of thinking that we must protect our weaker, other living creatures. I agree with that in principle. After all, no one is cruel in his heart, not even our farmers with pigs, chickenhouses, or milking tables, and we know what livestock farming in the broad sense means. But I have two questions for you. One is this: do you have any idea, can you describe the conditions under which fur animals are treated where production is leaving our yard when we shut it down? And secondly, the company that fights bear breeding is actually a very environmentally conscious society. We are also talking about the environment and waste. [[We're hacking up. I can't hear you in the meantime.]] ...the livestock sectors.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U280	Thank you for your question. I didn't hear you at the end. If we consider today's bear farms to be prison camps, then cowhouses and pigswells could also be regarded as prison camps, since the journey is still one. Then I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, Moonika and Evgeni, whether you would like to be in an Estonian prison or in a prison in Bangladesh or Nigeria. Basically, that's where the same animal business is going. The conditions under which these animals are kept, as well as for fur, are compared to the current ones in Estonia, such as night and day. These are truly excruciating conditions. So here's the choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U281	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U282	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good waitress! I do not consider this draft to be reasonable and I certainly do not support its becoming a law. However, I do think that some of the aspects you referred to are also sensible to give a second view. It is true that I have also eaten this chinchilla meat, and in Estonia, not anywhere in South or Latin America, but it is ridiculous to imagine that raising chinchillas in Estonia could become meat and not bear animals. In this sense, we also harm the few people who make a living with it. Meat-chinchilla farming farms will never be established in Estonia. But my question is whether the initiators of the draft have discussed it or whether you have discussed it in the committee, that if we have freedom of business in the Constitution, but we now want to abolish one form or type of enterprise, but in the same law we do not have a compensation mechanism. I understand you discussed in the Commission that this could be dealt with by the Ministry of Rural Affairs and so on. Should we actually apply this mechanism in law to compensate, should it become a law?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U283	Yeah, sure. This is the view of me and a number of colleagues, including Andres Metsoja, that it should not be so rough. Moreover, there is still ambiguity as to whether this draft is compatible with the Constitution at all. The Chancellor of Justice has said that he will appreciate this when we have finished this product.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U284	Helle-Moonika Helme, do you have a procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U285	[[Remote connection]] Yeah, well, I have a procedural point in that I missed a very important question to the waitress about the fact that she probably didn't hear. Can I ask you a question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-18_U286	You, of course, exceeded the one minute you were given, and that first question just came in. But since we are about to run out of time for today's sitting, I must also apologise to the rapporteur here for not being able to finish this point. All questions will be postponed to tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen, In this minute and 30 seconds, we won't be able to take any more questions and answers. I'm gonna call today's sitting closed. Tomorrow we will begin with the situation where Andres Metsoja asks first, then Imre Sooäär, Aadu Black, Riina Sikkut and Henn Põlluaas. Mr. Ernits, you're welcome back here tomorrow at 14:00. The sitting is adjourned.
