ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U1	There are 87 delegates in favour of the draft, there is no one against it, with one abstention. The bill has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U2	Let's move on to today's agenda. Agenda item 16: Second reading of the draft law amending the Waste Act and the Packaging Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I give the floor to Yoko Alender, Chairman of the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U3	[[Remote connection]] Ladies and gentlemen, Good manager. Nice new work date! We have before us the draft law amending the Waste Act and the Packaging Act at second reading. The draft law was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 11 May 2020. I recall that the minister who introduced the draft to us at first reading was Rene Chef. The draft amends the requirements and measures relating to the separate collection of waste, extended producer responsibility, prevention of domestic waste, the improvement of municipal waste management plans and the recycling of waste in order to achieve better results in the preparation and recycling of waste re-use. The wording of the liability provisions and the penalty rates are also specified. The first reading of the draft was completed on 20 May 2020 and the amendments were tabled by 3 June. The member of the Riigikogu Mart Võrguship tabled three amendments; the other members of the Riigikogu, the committees and the political groups did not propose amendments to the draft. Mart Võrguship withdrew its proposals on the first and third March. The Estonian Pandipakend, the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities, the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Association of Estonian Circular Economy Enterprises, the Estonian Chamber of Agricultural Commerce, the residents of Narva City and the Ministry of the Environment have also submitted their draft opinion and proposals for amending the draft. The Commission discussed the draft for the preparation of the second reading on 13 July and 8 December 2020 and on 6 and 8 April that year. On 13 July last year a very wide range of interest groups was involved and various proposals were presented. On 8 December only representatives of the Ministry took part and 15 of the amendments tabled were voted on. These were technical and linguistic improvements to the draft. After the change of government, we decided to continue to deal with the bill. On 6 April, we again invited a relatively wide range of interest groups to the Commission: Estonian Re-use Organisation, Estonian Packaging Circular, Producer Responsibility Organisation, Association of Circular Economy Enterprises, Association of Cities and Municipalities, Chamber of Commerce, Trade Union, Association of Drinks Producers, Food Industry Association, Chemical Industry Association and Ministry of the Environment. At the meeting of the Commission, the stakeholders presented their proposals. The main topics were the organisation of local collection of packaging waste and the need to clean up the surrounding area of public packaging containers. We also held a debate on the method of sampling waste, and it was also a question of the levels of penalties. The audit of packaging companies was also discussed, which is also the subject of the draft. At the meeting, it was clarified that the local government unit could organise separate collections of packaging waste from the place of origin, in agreement with the recycling organisation referred to in §101 (1) of the Packaging Act, and the recycling organisation would then be guaranteed participation in the management of the recovery of packaging waste in proportion to its market share. This means that recycling organisations will be given access to recovered packaging waste. It was considered important to point out that the local government unit cooperates with all recovery organisations, not just one of them. In the past, the local government unit has also had the right to include the collection of packaging waste in the organised waste shipment, but unfortunately this option has not been widely used. This right was previously derived from Paragraph 66 (2) of the Waste Act and pursuant to that paragraph, the local government unit can arrange for the collection of packaging waste from the site without agreement with the recycling organisation, but in this case the collection of packaging waste will also be maintained in parallel through public collection facilities operated by the organisations. And in this case, joining the service is voluntary for the holder of the waste, or people. Now, in conjunction with this previous section, local authorities are given the opportunity to make the collection of packaging waste from the source mandatory for waste holders, but only on condition that there is cooperation with recycling organisations and that the service price is less than EUR 30 cents. Otherwise, membership is optional. The amendment will help reduce the quantity of packaging waste in the composition of mixed municipal waste and better quality packaging waste will reach recovery organisations. And if the local government unit... agreement with the recycling organisation to collect from the site of origin, then with the agreement of the local government body, the recycling organisation may reduce the number and volume of these public containers in proportion to the number of participants in the collection from the place of origin of packaging waste. [[The connection's breaking up.]] The draft specifies how the packaging could still be collected at the preferred site of origin. Representatives of the Ministry of the Environment also took part in the meeting on 8 April and a position was drawn up on the Mart Võrguship's amendment, which was still there. The Commission also decided to propose four Commission amendments. A little of the amendments, then. Amendments 1 and 8 are related and we have Mart Võrguship's proposal on list 8. The member of the Riigikogu proposes to exclude from the planned Waste Act and Packaging Act Amendment Act § 1 96, which supplements the Waste Act and gives the Environmental Inspectorate the right to exercise administrative supervision over the administrative acts of the local government. The author of the amendment considers that, since it is a review of the legality of administrative acts and not of the content, it is not justified to entrust these tasks to the Environmental Board. The Ministry of Justice already has the competence and competence to monitor the legality of administrative acts. This amendment was fully taken into account by the Commission and relates to Amendment 1. Amendments 4, 14, 15, 19 and 20 are on the Commission's side and on the basis of ministerial proposals on the same subject. Amendment 14 is perhaps the most substantive, it is not technical. This is a new amendment which gives the municipality the right to organise the handling of containers of overfilled public packaging waste and packaging waste gathered around it. Before the local authority clears the containers or disposes of the packaging waste, it must allow the recycling organisation to do so itself. To this end, the local authority must inform the recycling organisation in writing and set a reasonable time to empty the container. It should also be fixed in an agreement between the parties. It is also important for the agreement to reflect the conditions under which the municipality itself organises the shipment of packaging waste and invoices it to the recycling organisation. It is important that the recycling organisation is given the opportunity to empty the filled container or to dispose of packaging waste stored next to the container. Stakeholders also expressed the view that this agreement between themselves is very important and in practice it often happens that way. But there are still problems. The flexibility of the emptying schedules is often insufficient, and the aim of this provision is to provide a clearer solution for ensuring the welfare of the public container park. Amendments 19 and 20 relate to the fact that the draft did not enter into force as a law in 2020, i.e. the deadlines. Amendment 20 amends the date of entry into force in 2021 by 1 January 2022. The addresses will then have sufficient time to examine the amendments after the entry into force of the draft law and to take account of the new requirements. The references to paragraphs 5 and 6 of § 2 are deleted from the text of § 3 of the draft act, as they enter into force in the general procedure. Amendment 7 concerns the audit of the right to finance the obligations laid down in the principle of extended producer responsibility. It has been drafted as an amendment by the Commission on the proposal of the Audit Committee. This provision has been clarified for reasons of legal clarity and the task is to carry out a check on whether sufficient funds are available to finance the above commitments. Amendment 16 is a linguistic amendment proposed by the Estonian Pandipakend. One word has been omitted from the wording. Amendments 2, 3, 5, 6, 9 to 13, 17 and 18 are of a technical nature on the part of the Commission and are subject to the relevant provisions of the Rules on Standard Techniques for Drafts to be dealt with in the Riigikogu. The Commission also took procedural decisions. It was decided to send the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 14 April. When the second reading of the draft is completed, the draft will be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for the third reading on 21 April. And I'd be happy to answer your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U4	Good waitress, thank you! You have questions too. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U5	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! You read out all those involved, but was there anyone involved who represented these so-called manufacturers, the people who produce garbage every day? And do I understand correctly that this obligation that people must, if possible, produce soil during the process, that this instrument must be acquired by people themselves?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U6	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U7	I'm sorry! The Tarmo Kruusimäe connection was unfortunately very fragmented. Let's just say that producers are still meant by organisations and companies that place packages on the market, or trade representatives in particular. People are all of us, and consumers are all of us. But in the role of the consumer, we are here, in fact, 'waste holders'. And, unfortunately, I did not hear a good colleague's question about bio-waste. I confirm that the draft indeed deals with the obligation to collect bio-waste by species in the future. Maybe Kruusmäe can ask another question later, then I can try to answer again.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U8	Thank you. Aivar Chef, please! Dear Aivar Chef, you are not to be heard. You can't be heard! Let's try to reconnect with Mr. Aivar Coke. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U9	[[Remote connection]] Good manager and good Yoko! I will continue with the question of the previous speaker. You have said that no taxes will be raised during your reign. But I understand that at the moment, private individuals, both the residents of the apartment building and the owners of the home, are being obliged to start collecting something else, getting containers for themselves, spending money. How did it come to be that people still need to be given more responsibilities? At the same time, you did not invite any owners of residents' or owners' organisations, apartment buildings and private houses to your committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U10	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good colleague! It seems that the internet has become a bit poor at the end of the night, but as far as I heard the question, the goal really is to collect by type for years. And let us be honest, in some of the cutting-edge municipalities, this is also dealt with through smart procurement. As regards the requirement for separate collection of bio-waste, this draft takes over the responsibilities of the European Union. In order for housing associations and private homes to modernise the container network, support is provided for local authorities. The Environmental Investment Centre can also apply for project-based support for this purpose. And that has been successfully done in many places.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U11	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U12	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, manager. Good Yoko! The law, by its very nature, seems to be such a good and necessary one. We hear here that the collection and progress of bio-waste by type seems to be such a very strong smell of potjomkin. Because, if we remember, it was somewhere in January-February this year, when a major scandal exploded in Estonia concerning the collection, sorting, packaging, transport of waste by type. It turned out that for years it had been dealt with without being dealt with. The National Audit Office began to check the matter, the audit was carried out and it was concluded that the Ministry of the Environment and the Environmental Board have not really dealt with it. I don't know what they're doing. Then we met in the Riigikogu a special committee on the control of the state budget, which discussed this issue more deeply. It was concluded that we live in waste management in Estonia as a two-storey society: one is the situation on paper, the law, the other is the reality. And the reality is very, very bad. Can this law, which now comes, improve the situation? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Or maybe it'll help a little bit...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U13	Good questioner, your time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U14	...that something really happens?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Good questioner! Ladies and gentlemen, These are very legitimate questions. I would conclude by saying that this draft is one step closer to a better outcome, a more meaningful circular economy. It does not solve all the problems relating to the collection by type of recycling capacity in Estonia at all. It also does not solve the problems of supervision. But it will take a few steps. The most important things in this draft really concern getting bio-waste out of mixed municipal waste. Bio-waste accounts for a large proportion of mixed municipal waste and pollutes the mixed municipal waste container, if any. In this sense, this bill is the first step. But I totally agree with the questioner that this is not the solution. This is what we are dealing with in the Committee on the Environment and will also continue to deal with in the Ministry.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U16	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U17	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! In fact, I will continue the question of Mr Pulpland. Yeah, there's no way to be against the things in this bill. The point really is that it is clear that much more needs to be done. We know that we have just discussed here that, in the context of the European Union, for example, because we are in a bad situation, we have to pay EUR 11 million more than we would otherwise have to pay. I also asked the Minister of Finance about the government's plans, which also concern the producer's motivations, so that fewer packages would be placed on the market to be better collected. We all know the problems associated with producer responsibility organisations. Can you tell me what the government's legislative plans are regarding the wider reform of producer responsibility organisations?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U18	Good manager! Honourable questioner, I'm so sorry! I heard that reasonable introduction, but at the moment of the question, the sound disappeared. Perhaps the questioner could repeat the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U19	I'm asking you to give the microphone to Evgeny Ossinovski again so he can repeat his question. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U20	Well, maybe now it'll work. I asked, good Yoko, if you know what government plans are, what the proposed legislative package is to implement a broader reform of producer responsibility organisations. We know all these problems. When could changes be expected, and what would this package look like?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U21	Thank you. Now I can hear you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good questioner! I guess, when we come up with this package, we are also, as members of the Commission, and the whole country. And I think there's a lot of interest groups. This is a matter that concerns many. As far as I know, there is no final plan. In fact, over the years, the Ministry of the Environment has made a lot of proposals to the Riigikogu, most of which have not gone through to this day. The Ministry is currently reviewing them, updating them, and I hope that if we can adopt this draft as a law with the support of a common consensus, we will be able to continue with the following issues. I very much agree that one of the key issues is how to strengthen the motivation of producers to place more sensible, better recycled packaging on the market and also to contribute to recycling organisations so as to increase recycling opportunities.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U22	The good chairman of the committee, Mr Alender! I have a proposition for you. Maybe the connection would be better if you shut down your videotape. Maybe the connection will work better on both sides. Let's try it like this for a second. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U23	Thank you, good Chairman! Good Yoko! I cannot agree in any way that the people who now have a new responsibility are not involved in this debate, they are affected by this law, are they not? But with this garbage wolves, it's just like a tiger jump. They used to be really hard and shiny words, but they don't work. Many citizens are losing their jobs now, under corona conditions, and they are already struggling. Now they have to start collecting more garbage by type. And they're not involved in these processes. But that's just a note. I ask: who funds recycling organisations?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U24	Yoko Alender, please! Yoko Alender, do you copy?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U25	Yeah, I can hear you now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U26	Did you hear that question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U27	Unfortunately, the end of the Kruusimäe question... Can we please repeat the question? Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U28	Please return the microphone to Tarmo Kruusimäe so that you can repeat the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U29	Who funds recovery organisations so that they can provide this service?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U30	Thank you, Mr President. A good questioner, recycling organisations are financed by producers who place packaging on the market.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U31	Let's move on. The next questioner is Aivar Chef and let me also wish her a happy birthday, a lot of health and strength for today's birthday. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U32	Thank you. Good manager! Good Yoko! I'm gonna ask you a little bit more about bio-waste collection. The municipalities will start writing the project and applying for money. In fact, private individuals and apartment buildings need bio-waste, and I believe that those who have collected bio-waste know that bio-waste can be harvested without putting meat and fish in it, otherwise the boxes are full of mice and rats. My question, however, is to clean up containers for separate collection of packaging waste. If you're walking around now, in a lot of municipalities...... where these bases would have been fixed and people's eyes looked beautiful, gardened around it. [[The connection's breaking up.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U33	Dear Aivar Chef! Unfortunately, this question was not heard. At least you couldn't hear it in this hall. I have a suggestion that I will give you the floor again. I ask you to repeat your question, perhaps you can hear better. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U34	The organisation of the collection containers is one of the topics of this draft. [[The connection's breaking up.]] And it hurts people's eyes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U35	Dear Aivar Chef! You can't be heard. It's very intermittent. Is there any way we can get you to shut down the system for a second, this Chrome, and open up again? I hope you don't mind if I take Andres Metsoja's question in the meantime and then we come back to you. Why don't you close Chrome for a second and then open up again? But let's try to keep going. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U36	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Yoko, Chairman of the Commission. I also think that this step is lazy enough, but in the right direction. In general, it seems that society needs to look for this common ground all the time. The biggest success in waste management must have stopped there that we have been able to close self-creating landfills in nature across Estonia. My question to you, Good Yoko, comes from this field. How do you feel about Estonia's lack of vision or willingness to organise? Indeed, municipalities have done a great deal of work because we actually had waste management in the forest and on the field. Big steps have been taken in this waste law, but how do you feel about moving forward from here?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U37	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good questioner, good colleague from the Committee on the Environment! I think it's a very good soil to move on. And I will also take this opportunity to recognise the media, which have actually highlighted these bottlenecks very effectively lately. Of course, the reports of the National Audit Office will also help us. I think that, in fact, the willingness of the parties to improve this system is very strong, although politically, certain 'uncomfortable' decisions must also be made. Of course, bringing the system to a new level will also entail certain costs. After all, it is obvious that in most parts of Estonia, the disposal of municipal waste is still relatively cheap.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U38	Let's do another experiment. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U39	Good manager! Good Yoko! I hope you can hear me now. Well, life is like that if the state doesn't make it, the task will be put on people. But I'm asking you this. The organisation of containers for the separate collection of packaging waste was one issue. But was it also the discussion that these containers should have a hard base and a fence around them so that they would not be caught in the eyes? I may experience in Tartu at my house that there has been a simple dumping of these containers and people, depending on the weather, in the mud or in the grass, in order to get their packages put away.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U40	Thank you, Mr President. Good questioner! We did not have any discussion of the beauty of the eyes in the Commission. However, I can say from the knowledge we have learned so far that there seems to me to be quite a consensus that we could rather move from the source to the collection and that the public network could only be in certain places, may be mainly scattered.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U41	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Thank you. Let's move on to the negotiations. I'm opening negotiations. The word is Tarmo Kruusimägi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U42	Good Chairman! A good waitress and all the decision-makers we're in front of right now! And, of course, the people who now know that soon you will be obliged to start composting all potato peels and stuff like that. But just so it doesn't seem like a composting of your brains, there's a few things I need to clear up. Why am I skeptical? I am therefore sceptical that the city of Tallinn was very enterprising and put up large, colored pipes. And let's say, for a paper wrapper, it was the smallest part, yet people had the most, and then there were some tin cans that are the least, and then there was some glass tara and something else. The result was that everyone was filled with paper. The year came in 2009, the time of the cutbacks. And see a miracle, from that moment on, the garbage wolf was no longer important; from that moment on, collecting by species was no longer important. So I dare say that this collection by species is either a campaign or a good time. Then we can deal with it. And if there's a bad time, we can't deal with it. But this message right now, that's the timing. Yes, it cannot be denied, it must be said that the Fatherland Party has been quite critical here, because quite a few things have still remained open. We have not received all the good answers. And it's now come to this corona period, where we should really care about people, but now we're focusing more on garbage. Some people might ask, " You see, the government is more important than the man, and whether a man should admit himself to be garbage, so that he may be cared for by all organizations to see to God what we can do to help these people. ' And then all kinds of think tanks and all the representatives come in, see that, yes, in order for people to have a better place to live, we should create a better living environment for people. I remember another thing. The city of Tallinn decided to build a hazardous waste station in Kristiine, my constituency at Mustjõe 40. They said it was such a good idea, because man really wants to take hazardous waste to a waste plant near home. Imagine such a beautiful Sunday sunshine! Young people may be drinking morning coffee. "Honey, do you want me to go today and take the hazardous waste right down here? " What was the real reason for this, I don't know, but we in Kristiine had arranged for us to drive the car through the settlement, informed through the city sections and apartment associations that you could bring dangerous waste there. Perhaps dealing with such green environmental issues is an end in itself. That's how practical it is sometimes gets the impression that a blind grandmother is forced to go to a movie. Because the idea itself is actually pretty good. I have to say that these things could all have been negotiated with people, citizens. What do they think about this thing, they're just gonna have to start collecting compost? And is this compost going to recycle, so you're gonna have to sell this compost earth to somebody, or can you grow your own dick and onions in it? But then it doesn't go in circulation. Maybe if you circle that box a little bit, and you do an A, which means I'm honest, maybe all things are marked and Estonia gets this green mark. Well, then perhaps we are already so good that we do not have to repay this loan to the European Union because we have met all the criteria. More clever than that, maybe in these things! But I'm skeptical. But the idea itself is good. Which one of us wouldn't want to walk barefoot on a wet sauce lawn, it's such a wonderful moment! We're all ready to compost for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U43	Thank you. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much. Surely collecting by species is the right way to go, and that is the way we have been going for more than ten years. I believe most families have been collecting waste by type for years. But if you look at this bill, it still looks like if the state doesn't do anything, it's just a burden on private homes. So how many of these bio-wastes do you get? Where do these containers come from, does the municipality deliver them? Do containers also create a situation where mice and rats are considerably more than they are now? They're gonna live in those containers and eat. And then where is this compost in the container put? If there's a home and there's a garden, then it's easy, it's going to the garden, but what if there's an apartment building around which there's nowhere to put that compost? We'll have to think this through. The second thing that's always bothered me. In my opinion, most municipalities have solved very well the installation of containers for separate collection of packaging waste. But there are also municipalities where these containers are dumped somewhere in the meadow at some point and they say that now this is the right place, people take your waste there. They're collected by species, and that's it. This issue has been discussed for years, but I think there could still be a clear requirement through the KIC that the bases for containers of waste collected by species should be hard-core, be it asphalt or concrete base. If you go, eyes open, around the world, in most places rusty containers have not been thrown into the meadow, but they are still limited by a garden. Containers are installed inside the garden, and people are happy to collect waste by species and take it there, especially if it can be delivered free of charge. I hope that the second reading of this draft will be completed today and the third reading next week will be adopted as a law. But I also hope that the Committee on the Environment will continue to deal with this issue and will realise that waste collection and collection of containers and packaging are still in their infancy. I can say, as a small enterprise, who wanted to collect the packages and give them away, that the cost of this paperwork was so high that it was much easier to pay the packaging excise duty properly every month and not to deal with it. These opportunities have been taken away from many operators so that they cannot be active and collect packaging. I hope that people are still thinking about how these bio-waste containers get to private homes and apartment buildings, so people don't have to pay too much for them. When I think about my family, I have a small container that is emptyed once a month, and in most cases it's half empty. I still have a very small amount of waste of potato peel and something else, but when this requirement comes, it has to be met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U45	Thank you. And we'll go from here at a nice pace. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U46	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Just as there is much discussion and opinion on waste and packaging in Fatherland, there is much more in society. All of us are exposed to waste, and all of us have our own opinions. But in order to move forward in society, we need a general agreement. And I understand that the problem for Estonia has just been to agree on how to proceed. It is clear that waste is an integral part of the environment and that more recycling is needed in order to enjoy living on this earth. And that means that we need to think more and more about how to do it in our heads, and it is well motivated by motivation in both families and municipalities. In my opinion, collecting by species is also a very right step in the right direction. However, looking at the debate on a matter of national importance, even tomorrow, when we are talking about climate neutrality, it is clear that we are actually talking about having to travel less miles. The next step should therefore be taken. Indeed, it is possible to remove the waste collected by type from the source and this could be an incentive for every family, every municipality. Then the waste statistics would be in place. Let's be honest, we're still in a bit of a stone age by having mixed municipal waste containers and sorting you or away by sorting, on their minimum size, you still have to pay the discharge fee for mixed municipal waste containers. And man is rational. If it still looks like there's some room left in that container, something's going to be added. It is still possible to fit the stuff already preserved by grandparents in Estonian households. But if we took this step to combine the removal of bio-waste, if necessary, into the transport circle of mixed municipal waste, the removal of collected packaging, and all this could be done in a single transport circle, then fewer kilometres would be driven and fewer roads would be broken during a poor season. In fact, it is extremely clear that this user comfort also creates the motivation to collect by type if the car is really cultified by a container. And I also believe that there is a motivation for both the carrier and the producer's responsibility to communicate with each other so that everyone can get back into circulation. Then this material will have a much greater value. In fact, I think it is also strategically necessary to hold a debate in Estonia about how we still have these landfills. Whether landfills are a strategic state resource, or we can go this way, that we still say that the municipalities no longer need to be involved. The state has once supported their establishment, but perhaps they could be in the private market. I dare to think that the strategic resource the state should hold in its hands and rather try to catch these logistics networks, which, in a sense, are also our landfills, because they are often not only industrial sites but also industrial sites, to develop in a way that we are somehow competitive. I think we have come to a time when a single self-government is probably no longer so keen to organise this economy. It is still looking at larger regions and thinking about how, in cooperation with other municipalities, we can create competence for ourselves and, as a result, be an equal partner in the waste market, if I may say so. Unfortunately, on the other hand, it is also business and probably in the future it will be ever bigger. So clean the environment and sober your mind! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U47	Yeah. Thank you very much. I don't see any more calls right now. I'm closing the negotiations. Let us move on to the revision of the amendments. Amendment 1, from the lead committee, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 2, from the lead committee, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 3, from the lead committee, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 4, from the lead committee, to be fully taken into account. Number 5, from the lead commission, count fully. Number 6, from the lead commission, count fully. Number 7, from the lead committee, after the debate decision: take full account. Number 8, Mart from the Gridship, lead commission: count fully. Now, good fellows, Amendments 9 to 20 are all from the lead committee and the position is to take full account of: 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20. We have examined all the amendments. Thank you for your help and support. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 190. The second reading is closed and the 16th item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U48	We will move on to item 17, which is nothing more than the first reading of the Bill of Amendment to the Family Benefits Act and the Employment Contracts Act, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic. I give the floor for the presentation to Minister for Social Protection Signe Riisalo. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U49	[[Remote connection]] Good morning. Thank you very much, President of the Riigikogu. Honourable ambassadors! I will try to be constructive at this time of day and bring to you three amendments to the Family Benefits Act. The first change is different parental benefit for parents who are unemployed under the COVID conditions. It shall have a fixed term. The other two are designed to last. One is the payment of family benefits to the parents of a stillborn child and the other is the payment of family allowances to young people aged 16 to 19 who are studying at the beginning of the academic year. But now more specifically. First of all, the part of the amendment of the Family Benefits Act concerning the calculation of the amount of parental benefit in the event of unemployment. Indeed, the labour market situation already last spring and the country as a whole created a number of unemployed people for us. Today, unemployment has increased to about 8.8%. It changes every week, and the last time I looked at it, I saw a number just like that. In order to avoid a delay in receiving children or a deterioration in the livelihood of the beneficiary of parental benefit who has lost his or her job due to the corona crisis, a change is planned whereby the period of unemployment is excluded from the period for calculating parental benefit. We have calculated that 80% of births are 23 to 37 years old, and we have calculated how much potential there could be of birthers who have become unemployed because of the situation caused by coronavir. We have come to the conclusion that the measure could affect 380 women and 80 men. The cost of such a so-called customer base is EUR 2.9 million per year. Given the size of the budget for parental benefits in the state budget, it should be noted that this expenditure is less than 1% of the total budget. The fact is also that such a change requires the cost of developing the IT system. This expenditure is planned from the Ministry of Social Affairs' own resources and amounts to EUR 63000. This part of the draft is planned to enter into force on 1 July inclusive, but it is also proposed that it should be implemented retroactively from 1 January inclusive. This is precisely with the aim that, in a positive sense, parents who became unemployed last spring during the period of the previous emergency, would also be affected during the period of increased disease spread. The second amendment is the payment of family benefits to the parents of a stillborn child. First of all, in order to prevent a question, I'll tell you who we consider to be a stillborn child. These are stillborn children of at least 500 grams birth weight and after 22 weeks of pregnancy. We have had children like this in Estonia in the last few years 40 to 60 years, but this number has been decreasing all the time. In 2019 we had 28 such children. Estimates in terms of state budget expenditure have been made on a small margin based not on 2019 statistics, but on 40 potential stillborn children per year. This would mean an additional cost to the state budget of EUR 13000 per year. What is the content of this amendment? What do we offer to parents who have suffered a great loss? Fathers can take paternity leave and receive an additional parental benefit of 30 calendar days from the birth of the child. Similarly, mothers who are not entitled to maternity benefit under the Health Insurance Act are entitled to parental benefit. Since this target group is very small, but still extremely vulnerable due to the loss of the body, obviously we can all imagine how deep the grief is in the event of the loss of a child, we must also take into account the fact that mothers are able to restore their health. So the kind of support that has started at the initiative of the target group itself and also found support from the Ministry of Social Affairs and also......... support. [[The connection's breaking up.]] This is definitely our task as a caring society. The third amendment is of a very practical nature. Up to 16 years of age and 16 to 19 years of age, children's allowance is paid if they continue their studies. We have 535 children in the year who do not continue their studies, and their children are entitled to one month's child benefit according to the draft. The reason is that the Education Information System (EHIS) collects data and transmits them to the Social Insurance Board with a small stay, but since the Social Insurance Board pays out child benefits at the beginning of September, the data is not complete by that time. The current practice has left families in a situation where, between one month and the other, family benefits are not paid retroactively. In order to ensure a stable family income also in the form of child benefits, our proposal is to extend it by one month. And then, indeed, 535 children will receive one month's support as a result, while the rest will receive support simply without this one-month break. Of course, it is paid retroactively now. This cost to the state budget is EUR 60000 per year. And the development cost of the SKAIS is an additional EUR 50000 one-off cost. This is briefly the content of these amendments. I'm ready to answer the vigilantes' questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U50	Thank you, good waitress. I also have a request for you, Sir Signe Riisalo, that you may be able to turn off the video feed. Then the sound is even better, even though it was in this hall, let's say, on such a good level. Let's get to the questions. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U51	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Very necessary and important changes! Just as Riina Solman, Minister of Population in the previous government, came up with the issue of parental benefit for unemployed people, so these two additional changes are really very important. And special thanks and recognition to both Hanna Vseviov and other officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs who very quickly have found a solution to this very painful problem, the parents of stillborn children, and have already brought these proposals to the big hall. My question, however, concerns this. Maybe you'll be a little more specific, who will still be entitled to parental benefit if they become unemployed in such a way that the period of unemployment doesn't go into it? Is this right also for the self-employed, for example, and what must be done to get it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U52	First of all, I'm sorry, I can't turn off the camera if I have an active call. But I hope I'm listening and I'm trying to talk calmly and slowly. In answer to you, Mrs Helmen Kütt, I can assure you that both self-employed people and those working under a command contract are covered by this amendment to the law. The condition that the period of unemployment can be calculated is, of course, that a person has registered as unemployed. During the discussions on the draft, there was also a question in the Committee on Social Affairs as to whether all people would register as unemployed, or whether they would register as unemployed, knowing that such a legislative amendment was coming or coming. The reason for this debate is that the unemployed must actually register for additional social guarantees, not just for the preferential use of the parental benefit period. That is why we expect that most people who are unemployed will register for unemployment so that they are covered by health insurance and can also benefit from other labour market services and benefits. So I believe that the people to whom we wish to provide support for this measure have registered themselves as unemployed. But, yes, self-employed people and those working under an executive contract are covered by this amendment to the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U53	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U54	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. I hope you can hear me.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U55	Yes, it is. And the picture is very good.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U56	Honourable waitress! My question concerns the addition of § 63 and the ex-post evaluation of the provisions to be carried out by 2024. This is what the Ministry of the Interior is doing and I was a little surprised to see, because now this rather bizarre and unfortunate configuration of the Minister of Population has ended. I was hoping, and I assumed that now the family stuff was back nicely in my home at the Ministry of Social Affairs, but there's still some weird misunderstanding that there are some things in one house and others in another.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U57	Here I must apologize and say that it has been mistaken in the draft as it was originally in this regard. Indeed, the subjects of children and families, as well as the topics of population policy, have all been transferred to the Ministry of Social Affairs and the statutes of ministries have been amended accordingly. I very much hope that the Committee on Social Affairs will be able to correct this small error in the process of dealing with the draft. Because, indeed, the plan of the Ministry of Social Affairs is to assess the impact of this measure. If this measure has had the expected effect and we believe that parents who have become unemployed should continue to support them in the calculation of parental benefit, then we will certainly also plan a measure that will be sustainable for a long time. I have to say right now that it is probably unreasonable to continue the same measure in this way and perhaps there should be no need to seek this relief through unemployment insurance or labour market measures. In the context of parental benefit, this measure is likely to be exhausted in the long term.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U58	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U59	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Now let me ask you another question, which I have asked your predecessors before. § 63 of the Act refers to the ex-post evaluation of the Family Benefits Act. This law has now been in force for some time, this flexible parental benefit, and it is not directly related to this bill, but important nonetheless. Paragraph 63 (2) of the Act states that the Social Insurance Board will carry out the final analysis of the ex post evaluation by 1 January 2020 and submit it to the Ministry of Social Affairs. Last summer, I asked Mr Kiige if he was still in charge of this area. In June 2020, he said that, to his knowledge, such a comprehensive ex-post evaluation had not been completed, although the legislator had requested it from the Social Insurance Board and the Ministry of Social Affairs. Has this ex-post evaluation under § 63 been completed and, if so, could it be consulted?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U60	The analysis of the comprehensive law has not been completed, but an ex-post evaluation has been carried out in the work process for all the changes that have taken place at different stages of time. We don't have a good general team like that right now. But I appeal to the Social Insurance Board and ask for the information available to be gathered, because this ex-post evaluation is primarily necessary for the formulation of family policy both for the Social Insurance Board and for the Ministry of Social Affairs, because only on this basis will the following amendments and amendments in the form of a bill be made. So I promise I will take care of this and inform Ambassador Jevgeni Ossinovski.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U61	Good Minister, there are no further questions for you. Thank you very much. It is my great honour to ask Priit Sibul, Member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu Chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U62	Thank you. If the President-in-Office allows me, I will present the debate on this draft in committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U63	Yeah, we're looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U64	Thank you. The draft, which deals with the amendment of the Family Benefits Act and bears the number 300, was initiated by Riina Solman, Minister of Population in the Government of Jüri Ratas, and this was the first discussion we had in the Committee on Social Affairs on 12 January when the Minister and his good assistants, the advisers, presented this draft. Since Minister Signe Riisalo has already spoken quite a bit about its content, I am not going to repeat it. But as we were saying, the basic idea is that it would help people who are now working for some reason during the corona virus and are having a baby. This period, when they are unemployed, does not go into the parental benefit calculation and may not delay the adoption of children for this reason. The problem committee on the resolution of the population crisis sent us one proposal and, on the proposal of Tõnis Möldri, the chairman of the then Commission, we had to discuss it between the first and second readings. This is yet to be done by the Commission. Now the questions and the debate that took place in the Commission. The good Commissioner, Helmen Hunter, had a question. Tta thought it was a good and noble bill, but thought it would be too late before Parliament, could have come much earlier. His question was how this draft concerns women working in different forms of work, such as women who are self-employed or who work under a contract of command. The minister today just said that it concerns everyone. But then Merlin Murumets of the Ministry told us that the amendment was indeed intended to be made earlier, when the amendment of the Family Benefits Act extended the period of protection of successive births. But then it failed to do so because it required more in-depth analysis and IT changes. The planned changes will benefit all unemployed people who remain pregnant when these changes are in force. Member of the Commission Signe Riisalo examined whether it was reasonable to do so through a parental benefit scheme or whether it would have been reasonable to find a solution through labour market measures. The answer was that this draft had two main objectives: firstly, to support families wishing to have a child, and secondly, to ensure that there is no delay in having children. Consequently, it was designed as a change to the parental benefit scheme. It was a question that, if the purpose of this draft is that children should not be born as a result of the crisis and those who have lost their jobs due to the crisis would receive help, would this law not discriminate against women who do not work on the basis of an employment contract but are self-employed? And the question is also that a certain group of young women will be deprived of support. It was Mrs. Helmen Hunt's practical proofs. The representative of the Ministry explained that self-employed persons who have lost their jobs can also register at the unemployment fund. If he has paid the tax correctly, the period of his unemployment is also covered. So such individuals will benefit from the planned change. Then there was the question of what would happen to those women who left work in the spring and did not register as unemployed or took unpaid leave during an emergency, as their home-schooled children needed support at home and therefore were unable to actively seek work. The Ministry's advisor replied that the draft did not cover the target group whose salary had been reduced or those who had been protected by the wage subsidy measure. If a woman received a salary allowance, this period will be included in the calculation of the parental benefit because it was subject to social tax. It was stressed that the draft supports those who lost their pay and jobs. The aim is to protect the most vulnerable target group. Women whose wages have been reduced lose in parental benefits, but their loss is not as drastic as those who did not have a salary at all. It should be said that, of course, this was also the most important issue in our four debates in the Commission. And before I actually finish, I'm sure I'm gonna stop by on this one more time. It was then proposed that this bill be brought to this large hall on 20 January. This proposal was supported by consensus. That I could report the draft was also supported by consensus. But then something happened. The first meeting of the Commission we discussed was on 12 January. Perhaps a good chairman and other colleagues will remember that then came a more difficult day, when the papers, for example, said that Mikhail Korb made it back from Azerbaijan by train. And there were some other important events. And when the committee reunited on 18 January, the chairman, Tõnis Mölder, proposed that this draft be withdrawn from the agenda of the large Chamber. Me and my colleague, Helmen Kütt, did not support this because we felt that the draft was urgent, we should proceed. But a good colleague, Tõnis Mölder, pointed out that since there may be a problem with the fact that there is no belief that it deals with all women equally, it still needs to be examined and discussed. But I mean, the real reason was something else, because very soon three people left the Commission for different ministries, there was a change of government. And then it was really decided that this draft would be withdrawn from the plenary agenda. It was supported by 6 delegates and 3 opposed. For the third time, we discussed this draft on 5 April. Then Signe Riisalo introduced the bill, just like today. As has been said, in addition to the aforementioned idea of parental benefit measures, there were two aspects: the amendment of the Family Benefits Act and support for the parents of stillborn children. As a result, there were questions in the Commission. The question was why this IT solution cost is very high. It was explained to us that since this system is automatic, it will take time to reschedule. But this cost of EUR 50 000 for the draft itself seemed disproportionate to us, to the Members of the Commission. There was also the question of the criteria for the concept of a stillborn child. As the Minister said today, there are two criteria: at least 22 weeks of pregnancy and the child weighs at least 500 grams. There was also the question of whether both conditions had to be met. The answer was that the most important thing is this 22 weeks of pregnancy. Before that, it's a miscarriage, not a stillbirth. Then there was the question of how stillborn children are registered in Estonia. In response, we received a death note and a death certificate for children, which are not included in the population register. But they will be given a unique personal identification number, which will remain on the medical system and on the cause of death record. It was also pointed out that it would be possible to register stillborn children in the population register, give their children a name and personal identification code. If parents so wanted, it would probably help in some cases to overcome grief more easily. The question was asked that, in the current crisis situation, not only women who have become unemployed but also those whose workload has been reduced or who have to go on unpaid leave for a period of time. The new chairman of the committee, Siret Kotka, asked whether the parental benefit measures set out in Bill 300 necessarily required registration as unemployed and how this would increase the compensation received. In response, we have found that the target group is women who have lost their jobs due to the crisis, and it does not extend to other target groups. It is important for the country to help all those in need, but this is not always possible and therefore the most affected group was chosen. The reduced income does not have as much impact on parental benefits as the lack of pay. In the same way as in the first sitting of the Commission, part of the members of the committee have come to the question of whether it is more of a labour market or a family benefit measure. As I said before, the officials still agreed that this was a family benefit measure. Issues related to the self-employed also arose in the same way. Here Mr Pohlak was wondering if there would be an extension of the measure if the corona crisis were to be prolonged. Minister Riisalo said that this was a temporary measure and that it would be analysed. As he replied here today, it is not certain that it makes sense to continue as a family benefit measure, perhaps it still needs to be transformed into a labour market measure. There was again a debate on women who are self-employed, such as many beauty service providers, etc., whose work on the closure of shopping centres is clearly limited and who are not responsible for it. They have not registered as unemployed either, because their activities are not specifically restricted. Their activities are indirectly limited, as people cannot go to shopping centres and use their services. But as we were saying, these people are not concerned with the bill, it only concerns those who have officially registered as unemployed. We have spoken with the chairman of the committee, other members of the committee and officials that this is probably an important nuance on this draft, which we will certainly, I dare say, before we discuss the second reading. I will present at second reading what the Commission's final position is, how we deal with the various forms of work. Sometimes wage cuts or unpaid leave actually have a greater or at least equal effect on people's incomes than unemployment. Perhaps the law allows for equal consideration of these different nuances. This debate is probably still ahead of us. But on 5 April, the decision was made again to send this draft to the Grand Hall and to propose that the first reading be completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U65	Thank you very much, waitress. There don't seem to be any questions. Thank you. All right, let's move on. Do you want to open negotiations? Representatives of the political groups will be heard, as is the case at first reading. No wishes. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft 300. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 29 April at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 17th item is also closed. Good fellows, that concludes our trial. Thank you for your help and support. Have a safe journey home! Take care!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U66	Honourable Riigikogu! Good fellows! Honourable Members of the Government! Let's start the 14th April briefing. We're gonna do a presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U67	26 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 75 are missing. Today's Question Time is attended by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, Minister of State Administration Jaak Aab and Minister of Social Protection Signe Riisalo. Dear fellow Members, since ten questions have been received, I propose that we also take up one more question on the spot. Two minutes to ask the question, three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U68	Let's get to the first question. It is presented by Priit Sibul, a member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas and the topic is political culture. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U69	Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good lord! You have stood quite strongly for political ethics and good practice in your previous office in Parliament, perhaps even more than the other ambassadors. I'm trying to figure out how you're running this coalition or what advice you're giving. In Parliament, as we know today on the third day, we are dealing with the fact that one of the draft laws that the government has tabled has been incorporated into the second draft part of the content and, therefore, it is not even possible for some Members to vote or discuss the amendments that have been tabled on this draft. How does it go with this kind of parliamentary good practice? I understand that you do not lead the work of Parliament and you cannot interfere with the work of the committees, but since the subject of ethics and good practice has been important to you, I ask what advice you are giving. How have you organised this work in the coalition, and what suggestions have you made?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U70	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U71	Yeah, thanks! Indeed, as you yourself rightly pointed out, we have a separation of powers, and I certainly do not organise the work of the Riigikogu in any way. In the coalition, we have a job arranged so that we have two political parties, we work in the government and we work in the Riigikogu. I am pleased that you refer to the good practice of a member of the Riigikogu. It was indeed one of my children, and the purpose of its development was to agree on the conduct we follow in the Riigikogu. And indeed, it can only come from within the Riigikogu itself. This good practice is introduced to all new members of the Riigikogu and improvements to this good practice have been made here in the Riigikogu. I very much hope that the members of the Riigikogu will adhere to good practice, as well as to the Riigikogu's home and rules of procedure. And as I said, the Riigikogu also has self-regulation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U72	Now for the first additional question, Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U73	Thank you. Good practice is of little use if there are bad habits and as a result becomes unworthy conduct. As I said, part of the draft law on the prevention and control of communicable diseases, which I hope will go to the final vote today, has been raised. As far as I know, no political force or member of the Riigikogu opposes it, but we will see the result of the vote afterwards. This procedure was carried out, as I understand it, formally indeed in the Commission, but I expect that, at coalition level, the decision has been made to withdraw one part of the draft, to put it in the draft health services, to leave a half empty shell and see what happens next. But there is another problem with this law on the prevention and control of communicable diseases. The right number of days have been people on the streets, fearing the police state, etc., and now there is only this half-empty shell of the law. What are you gonna tell these people? Or what's the coalition's plan? What about that half-empty shell? I, too, have said several times in public that I certainly do not see any police state problem here, but nevertheless people are on the streets. How do you intend to solve this problem and make sure that people can be at home calmly, in the absence of a health crisis, rather than on the streets?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U74	We sent a bill to the Riigikogu. The way the Riigikogu has dealt with this bill has been your own decision. If you have made it several parts, it is a question of the organisation of the Riigikogu's own work. The second part of your question concerned those people who have concerns about this law on the prevention and control of communicable diseases. People have written to me, too. Let me just give you an example. One lady wrote that she was wearing a nice mask, sticking to the restrictions, but she's absolutely reluctant to have people given compulsory vaccination now. So I wrote back to him, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, that's not the intention of the government. We have a constitution that says that the physical integrity of a person is important, and vaccination is voluntary. He asked me again if there really wasn't one. I told you I wasn't. The problem is, it seems to me, that there are many false claims relating to the draft law on the prevention and control of communicable diseases. What have we done to solve this? We have put these false claims on the crisis website.ee, as well as how the situation really is, so that people can get information from it. You can also share it with people who have concerns about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U75	And now one additional question registered on the spot. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U76	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! At 8:00 this morning, we had an opportunity to meet with the Teams and ask you questions. For that, I would like to thank you very much for coming. I asked you several questions. I asked who instructed the Riigikogu to install fences in front of the Riigikogu. I asked why police protests were essentially restricted to controlling women and children with automatic weapons, dogs, special forces and other security forces. I also asked why the police tags had been removed and replaced by numbers. I also asked why Kert Kingo was harassed when he came to work. Then you said you couldn't answer that question, but you've been watching these events. This morning, half an hour ago, we had a meeting with Kristian Jaan. The first thing Kristian Jaani did was apologize to Kert Kingo for being subjected to excessive force. But all the other questions I put to you earlier, the Minister of the Interior has failed to answer, saying that he does not run these things, they are the decisions of the Police Director-General, they are responsible, and so on. I'm gonna have a question right now. When you wanted to take over, you said you were going to run the country and do everything you could to make sure people live here. What I do not understand right now is that if you are the Prime Minister, but you observe events side by side, and the Minister of the Interior doesn't know anything, then who is actually running this country. Then it's a police state if you don't know anything about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U77	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U78	Indeed, I had the pleasure of going to the EKRE Group this morning to present the White Paper with which we came up for consultations last week. It is true that you really had a lot of questions. One of these questions concerned the member of the Riigikogu, Kert Kingo, and how the police used violence against him. Of course, after that meeting, I immediately called the Home Secretary and asked what happened. It turned out that indeed members of the Riigikogu have a special right to turn left of the Russian Orthodox Church towards the Riigikogu, while all other people must travel around the church. Since the policeman did not know that Kert Kingo was a member of the Riigikogu, he was asked to travel around the church. Then the other policeman had come and said that no, he is a member of the Riigikogu, he can turn left here. Indeed, the Minister of the Interior also apologized for this. Members of the Riigikogu have a special right to turn left. But, of course, I don't know if this is a good example of police force. That cop was, I understand, a chaplain. But all the questions about police working arrangements are better answered by the police. For nametags, this is not a political level, and the Prime Minister really doesn't deal with police breast tags every day.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U79	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U80	Let us move on to the second question asked by Indrek Saar, a member of the Riigikogu. Answers Prime Minister Kaja Kallas and the subject is fair compensation for sick days. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U81	Thank you, President of the Riigikogu, for giving the floor. Prime Minister! Unfortunately, as the subject of my question shows, I have to ask again about sick days. The latest news is that according to the Health Board, job stations remain at the forefront, i.e. 72% of the colleges are workplace sites. The Health Board says, among other things, that they have observed situations where employers, for one reason or another, hide close contacts. This is also understandable, since [in an anti-dumping case] this means an additional cost for them. The Social Democrats have long proposed to compensate 100% of the absence of working days for those who have become ill or have been assigned close contact with the Corona virus from the first day. That would be fair. Our proposal also includes that the employer should not pay the first days, but pay the state. This is a relatively small amount, looking at the costs that we face, for example, during the corona crisis. In addition, the Estonian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises, in cooperation with the Estonian Trade Union Confederation, has sent a corresponding letter to the Riigikogu committees and ministries on 29 March and requested the same as the Social Democrats. We have repeatedly brought these arguments. But there is one thing we have not received: we have not received a substantive answer to the question why your government thinks that this is not necessary. Please explain! Do you think this is ineffective, unfair or too expensive? Give us a meaningful answer why this cannot be done from day one.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U82	Good questioner and Prime Minister, I would like to apologize to both of you for a moment. Procedural question, Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U83	I'm sorry it's not a procedural question, but I thought it was necessary to say because people are watching. This morning, indeed, Minister of the Interior Kristian Jaani apologized for yesterday's police action, which was very nice of him.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U84	Thank you. Prime Minister, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U85	Thank you. The best way to prevent the spread of the virus or infection is to avoid human contact. The fewer exposure, the less transmission of the virus from one to the next. It also helps to limit the spread of the virus by wearing a mask, a rule of 2+2 and all that we have agreed. The Government of the Republic proposed to the Riigikogu to extend the payment of sickness benefits from the second day of sickness until 31 December 2021. Indeed, it is different from the customary arrangement in force. We did this just because people wouldn't go to work when they were sick. The first day is the person's own responsibility, the second to the fifth day is the employer's responsibility, and then from the sixth day on, the sickness fund compensates. This responsibility is important in designing a pattern of behaviour, in fact, we are responsible for not passing on the infection. Employers have put in place a wide range of rules to limit the disease in workplaces. That's your percentage of workplace monsters I'm not sure it's the last one and it's quite correct. Just in case, I'm going over it: it's where there are more than five infected people in one place, but it doesn't show how many people actually get infected at work. But, of course, in those workplaces where people have to work, i.e. they cannot stay on teleworking, it is certainly important that people stay at home if they are sick or if they have symptoms. In order to limit the spread of the disease, it is equally important that close contacts remain at home. Therefore, close contacts also receive sickness benefits to ensure that they really stay at home. In the meantime, when we had a lot of infected people, we were in a situation where the Health Board was no longer able to call all close contacts, but now this situation should have recovered and the Health Board and the volunteers are doing this work again.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U86	The first question to be specified, Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U87	Thank you for your answer. But I'm gonna do it again. First of all, the percentage, this is the percentage said by the Health Board yesterday: 72% of the disease sites are workplace sites. I calculated the data two days ago, then it was 71%. I think I'm sure the Health Board and I can still get a relatively accurate hit on this number. The Prime Minister may, if necessary, overcalculate himself. But I still did not find out what your claim meant: the responsibility is for people to behave responsibly. Prime Minister! I think you were responsible for the disease, but you got the disease. I know a lot of people who act responsibly, but they've got this disease. It's inevitable in an epidemic situation that you're gonna get that disease. After all, what we are talking about is that it is unfair if a person is already suffering from this epidemic, his salary will be reduced and his motivation to stay at home when he is ill will be reduced. If you say the good news is that the northern part of the Health Board can now start finding close contacts again, then there are more people who are forced to stay home from work. And they lose in wages. If they are forced to stay home from work twice in a row, they will lose almost 40% of their salary, depending on how these work days are falling. This is deeply unfair to people who cannot work remotely and have to go to the service sector or to the production unit. As a rule, it is people who receive a lower average or average salary. As a rule, it is people who, as a result of this loss of EUR 100 or EUR 200, have a major impact on their livelihood. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Why do we act unjustly? Why are we putting additional pressure on it? Please explain in substance!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U88	Dear colleagues, if you ask your question, please do so more towards the microphone. I guess then for those of you who are watching us over the Internet, your voice will be better spoken. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U89	Thank you. What I thought about with this remark on the numbers that affected the workplace is that there is a difference: whether a person has been infected from the workplace or has been exposed to the workplace. People who have been infected from the workplace are 12%, while 43% of people have been infected from the family and 33% are unknown. Why am I saying this? Because the place of work, or even the place of work, is considered to be the place where five people have fallen ill in the same place. Then it's considered a fire. Since jobs are the places where people are exposed, there can be such a high percentage of all colleges in the workplace. But the infection at the workplace is 12%, so in fact, families are the most infected places. Thus, family infection cannot be prevented by sickness benefit being paid on the first day. You made this my example of me being infected. Really, I don't know where I got infected. I don't know where I was exposed to the person carrying the infection. I was in isolation before that, and yet I got sick. Indeed, it was at a height when there were so many infected people. The person who took the test from me told me that they already felt that the infection was spreading just by looking at the face. Would it have saved me from the infection if the sickness had been on the first day? No, you wouldn't. Would that have saved the people who get infected in the family circle? I wouldn't have. But, as I said, we just have very different political concepts, and we can argue about that. I will listen to your arguments, they are substantive, but they are equally on the other side. I hope that we will soon come out of this crisis, and that is not the issue anymore.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U90	And now one more question, Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U91	[[Silence.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U92	Dear Siim Pohlak! We can't hear you here in the Riigikogu at the moment. Please, let's try to reconnect for a second. Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U93	[[Silence.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U94	Still no one can hear your voice. I have a suggestion that we will, however, try to take this additional question if you can close Chrome on your computer for a moment and open it again. Let's hope that's possible in a few decades. Let's try it again. Please give the microphone to Siim Pohlak!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U95	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I hope you can hear me now, good chairman of the sitting.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U96	I can hear you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U97	Prime Minister! I will continue on the question of Indrek Island. In order for us to have as little compensation as possible for sick days, it is necessary to suppress the spread of the virus and prevent us from having the third wave that is now beginning in Germany, France and Sweden. I looked at the numbers before the meeting. Do you have any news about the borders? Are there any more severe corona checks at the borders? And I would like to emphasise once again: I am talking about the control of the corona at the borders, not the construction of a wall or the suspension of freight transport. Are more stringent measures planned? It is clear that people come from African countries, not to mention Western Europe, across the border without any control. They don't ask for anything from where they come from or where they've been and come in contact with, not to mention a negative corona test or a paper to prove the presence of antibodies. So what happens at the borders? We had an internal minister in the group just before Question Time started, Mr Jaani, whom we also asked about the subject of Latvia, and he told us that there is traffic on the Latvian border because the Baltic bubble still works and labour migration to Latvia must be allowed. In the last briefing, you told me that the Baltic bubble was finished. So how exactly are these things? And are you going to do something at the borders? I believe that Estonian companies, especially smaller companies, and neither the people of Estonia want to survive the third wave at all in the summer or autumn. Are you planning to tighten up the corona controls at the borders?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U98	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U99	Thank you. First of all, I will start at the back end, yes, this Baltic bubble, or the lightening border crossing between the Baltic States, was in force until 5 April, when we completed the procedure that the previous government had put in place. This means that we have common rules on border crossings with our neighbours. For example, in the case of Latvia, if a person is not a resident of Valga or Valka, he or she is subject to the same requirement of self-insulation or testing as those arriving from other Schengen areas. This means that border crossingrs must remain in isolation for 10 days, which can be released by means of two tests: the first test either 72 hours before coming to the country or on arrival and the second one not earlier than the sixth day after the first test was carried out. There are also exceptions that apply to the passenger service provider, to the carriers, as well as to those who have been vaccinated and those who have suffered from it. So it's the order that's in place right now. The question about the airport. At the airport, people should fill in a health form and then have the opportunity, as described above, to take the opportunity to take two tests or to be isolated. The point of filling in this health form is to know exactly where people are located, because then you can check whether they are fulfilling their isolation obligation. Testing cannot be made mandatory for the citizens of the Republic of Estonia. We have a constitution that talks about physical integrity, the Supreme Court has furnished it with its judgment, and no one can violently be forced to take the test. If you don't take the test, you'll have an isolation obligation, as I said before, just to prevent the infection from spreading and the infection from being brought into the country. We have also allocated additional resources, or at least we have talked in the government office about the need for more police officers to check border crossings and health insurance at the airport. So maybe it should work better now if it worked a few weeks ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U100	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U101	We move on to the third question, it has been submitted by the member of the Riigikogu Merry Aart, which is answered by the Minister of State Administration Jaak Aab and the subject is regional policy. Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U102	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! We do not talk very often and very much about regional policy as a whole, but rather about individual activities such as mosaic fragments. We all know that rural areas have lost a relatively large number of people, but on the other hand, there is a positive feature of the Coronian side of negative phenomena: quite a lot of people have gone to the country and they would be happy to stay in the country. I've been talking to a lot of people about this. They say they don't have an environment there so they can live there in peace. Here's my question. I know you're the person who knows the regional level well. I ask you what are the activities that support rural living. What could and should the country do to make rural areas recover a little, and people would like to stay and stay there?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U103	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U104	[[Silence.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U105	I'm taking the chairman's break because we're having connection problems right now. So break three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U106	Good fellows! Dear Minister, Break's over. It seems to me that we have overcome this technical problem. We are in line with the question of Jaak Aab. Please, Jack Aab!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U107	Honourable Chairman! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I'm sorry! I don't know what the technical problems were. I saw and heard, so I know the question Merry asked. I would like to thank the member of the Riigikogu for his question. Of course, regional development, regional development and regional policy are close to my heart. For the last almost three and a half years, I have spent most of my time dealing with these issues. Now, speaking of the whole picture, there is certainly no one magic wand that can contribute to the development of the regions. I guess we've been working for this [development]. If we look at the instruments that are targeted, in recent years two new regional programmes, the Ida-Virumaa programme and the South-East-Estonia programme with which we implement the support and measures necessary for the development of the local environment and entrepreneurship have also been opened. You can always do better and more. The questioner pointed out very well that when, during the corona crisis, there was an opportunity to go to the country and work remotely there or even in the rural area, either to create another home or to create a real home, many people wanted to take advantage of it and used it. We have also developed a number of actions and measures that would contribute to this. I'm not gonna talk about Internet broadband for a long time here. It will also be dealt with and provided for the next few years in the financing period of the European Union, it will develop quietly continuously and it will certainly have accelerated faster than in the past. In recent years, for example, tools have been added to make gravel roads dust-free, especially in certain areas such as South-East Estonia. With the support of European Union money, we have raised the coefficient of rural areas and counties, particularly in the form of programmes to strengthen competitiveness. But I think these are only the first steps. Three years ago, we also raised the municipal income base to 200 million additional funds, and I think that will also affect regional policy. During the previous government, we gave EUR 130 million to local authorities in crisis aid, and we have also proposed to support municipalities from this additional budget. A regional development action programme is under preparation, where public authorities, agencies and ministries should describe how they operate in priority areas outside Tallinn, Harjumaa, Tartu County and Pärnu. This is the plan we will draw up by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U108	Thank you. And now for a more specific question, Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U109	Everything is right, and everything is very grateful when these programs start up nicely, and they do. But I ask you whether you have also been discussing improving the living environment, including kindergartens, primary schools, doctor's points, etc., which are actually necessary for people so that they do not have to go anywhere very far.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U110	Thank you for the clarification. However, developments have taken place in recent years; rather, it is always difficult to find people. As you have noted, in recent years, health centres throughout Estonia have been established for European Union funds, which are intended for primary health care in both county centres and smaller centres. But rather, there is a problem with people, i.e. how we find family doctors there. We have also publicly supported moving to the country, but this aid is still not enough. So often the problem is the lack of people. Schools and kindergartens. I guess the local governments have a key role to play here. We have supported municipalities through a variety of programmes, and it can also be seen that investments have accelerated, whether the school network or whether the CO2 funds provide investment support to both kindergartens and nursing homes. The last rounds have been the choice of the municipalities themselves; there is no so-called sign attached to it. There is also an opportunity to do projects where you can, for example, take down an old building and build a new one, whether it is a kindergarten, a nursing home, a school or something else that the municipality needs. I was just saying here, in answer to the previous question, that we are drawing up a regional development agenda. We have action plans for two large regions, South-East Estonia and Ida-Virumaa, and on the basis of these action plans, we say, prioritised resources and activities have gone there. As far as the whole of Estonia's regional action plan is concerned, it is based, of course, on development documents, also on the development strategy "Estonia 2035," but this action plan includes specific activities carried out in the framework of European Union programmes in regions all over Estonia. Because the reality is that if we compare the indicators and levels in these regions, they tend to be quite similar. South-East Estonia and Ida-Viru County were once highlighted, but almost the same numbers actually apply to Central Estonia, Western Estonia and some other regions. We have a couple of developed regions, the rest need serious help and support. And there are positive signs. As you mentioned, in times of crisis, people have just wanted to live in the countryside and have a good living environment there. But there is also a tendency that returning from Finland tends to look at the countryside. And in some regions the balance of migration is positive, i.e. the people of Estonia come from the city to live in the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U111	Now one more question, Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U112	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! With the additional budget you mentioned, there is also a plan to support local authorities with large amounts. One of the additional budget proposals made by the Social Democrats, which unfortunately did not receive support, was the additional reimbursement of sick days from day one and 100%. Your government associates have repeatedly mentioned in the context of the additional budget procedure that local authorities could take charge of the payment of the additional benefit. We know that at least one local government has already done so, but it is one of the richest and therefore the largest and more opportunities of the municipality, the city of Tallinn. If we take, for example, the municipalities of Ida-Virumaa, where there is a very high incidence of disease, which is related precisely to workplace monsters, and the fact that the workplace specifics are very different from large industries, large collectives, commuting to work with buses, etc., then it can be said that these municipalities have suffered the most. Now your government's rhetoric is such that these municipalities should also bear the welfare of these people and the additional compensation for sick days. As you yourself have already mentioned, you are a very good regional policy expert and care about local governments. Why, as a representative of your government, are you putting a burden on local governments in charge of human health? Why do you suggest that local governments spend some of this money on crisis relief and promoting local life to compensate people for sick days? How will this affect our regional policy when there is again a capital with greater opportunities?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U113	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for your question. There were a number of issues. One of the main factors was the reimbursement of sick days. I would remind you that the first three days of illness were not reimbursed before the corona crisis came. There was now an additional budget last year, and there is also compensation in the proposal for an additional budget from the second to the fifth day, which has also been agreed with employers, and will continue to be reimbursed by the Health Insurance Fund. This is certainly a very big step forward. Yeah, well, I'm worried about the fireplaces, too, especially in the big work collectives. Now, when it comes to local governments, no one has given them any additional task. If the municipality wants to make grants, including compensation for the first day of sickness, out of its own resources or the extra money we have provided, it is welcome. When we talk about the money allocated to local governments, it consists of three parts. Firstly, 15 million are to support the revenue base, and that is where the extraordinary costs resulting from the corona crisis, or there are also fewer revenue received to cover their own costs. In this 15 million case, the municipality has a free choice of measures which it supports and what it does. For example, the municipalities of Ida-Virumaa receive 1.5 support from this 15 million coefficient. If others receive a coefficient of 1, the municipalities of Ida-Virumaa will receive a coefficient of 1.5. So there is a difference, as the income tax receipts of the municipalities of Ida-Virumaa were also modest in the first months of last year and in the first months of this year. This is certainly linked to various reasons, but one reason is that the restrictions have been in force for the longest time in Ida-Virumaa. This is what we support from this side, and the municipalities of Ida-Viru County will receive a higher coefficient for this money. In addition, we support the provision and improvement of distance learning, whether routers or whatever the municipalities want to provide for their children and schools. It is one million and it is for a specific purpose, there is not much choice, it is designed to facilitate and ensure distance learning. In addition, there are 30 million investment grants. Municipalities also have a relatively free choice here. We hope that more attention will be paid to ventilation systems in their institutions, schools and kindergartens, as well as to additional social services, for example, because elderly people need to be cared for at home, more food delivered home, and also food aid distributed. So we have paid attention to offering various solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U114	Thank you. I will finish addressing this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U115	Let us move on to the fourth question posed by Mr Lotman. Prime Minister Kaja Kallas answers this and the subject is the White Paper. Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U116	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! We've been waiting for you to perform here for days to present the plan you're planning to do to ease the corona crisis and what the government's programme is. The answer was that you can't come these days, but you're sending us a thorough white paper that reflects all these things. I have to say, this book gave rise to even greater uncertainty. Quite a blank document. It was already quite destructive criticism in the press as well, I am not going to repeat these criticisms right now, but it is incomprehensible even to the genre of this document. When we talk about the White Paper, there are different options. Whether it's like "The losses of the Estonian people during the occupation," a thorough review, or it's a clear government plan, such as that in English that is a road map. For example, Britain's homepage is excellent, yet in February the road map is being developed interactively, with a clear indication of what the goals are, what the dates are and what the government's actions are. And there's another big sign of danger in this book, but I can't ask you about that right now, I'll ask you about it in an additional question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U117	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U118	Yeah. I went to this big hall to introduce this white book, and I am now going to the political groups to discuss it. This morning I was in the EKRE Group, and tomorrow I will be in your group. The point of this White Paper is that, in the course of consultations, we will have an understanding at all levels of what must be done for one level of danger or another. We know which areas are most hit by these restrictions. We have already done this so-called exercise in locking up society several times. And nobody really wants to be closed. This means that certain steps can be taken in all organisations to prevent the spread of infection. That is why this initial draft is meant for consultation, so that these tables can then be filled with what each of us could do, what a person could do, what a country could do, such as a catering establishment, which could be done by a show or entertainment establishment, precisely so that we do not reach the next level of danger. You're saying we don't have dates and goals. We have a system of metrics that includes different metrics, and according to these metrics, this four-tier hazard level table has been created. Perhaps they should be put together whether the level of danger is low, medium, high or very high. And accordingly, there will be action plans. Why are there no specific dates? Because we don't know what date we're gonna reach some level. If we lock ourselves to a date, but the level of danger is very high, it is clear that if society goes loose again, there will be an increase in the virus or infection. If the plateau we're in is very high, this slope is so much worse than that that our medical system just can't handle it. So the purpose of presenting this draft or plan to you for discussion is to fill it with real content. Of course, the part that concerns the country that the country does in one case or another, we will do ourselves. But all the proposals are welcome, because the idea is that the document should be prepared as a social agreement that we do and how we live on with this virus.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U119	Now for the first point of clarification, Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U120	Thank you. Here I would like to ask two questions. First, this book or this document was presented to you by the State Chancellery and you sent it to the Riigikogu simply by [button] "Forward." When you introduced it here, it was as if you weren't familiar with it yourself. In your short speech, you mainly spoke about a traffic light, which is a completely ridiculous thing. But there is a very dangerous tendency here, and also in other projects of law or decision that you have sent to the Riigikogu: you want to delegate more and more of your power to the State Chancellery. That's the question of who's running our country. I understand your logic, you say, "I'm in charge. " But leadership isn't just about you standing here saying something. Governance is decision-making, implementation and responsibility. I want to know what your decision is and how you want to be held accountable. When this document says what we all have to do, i.e. what the government has to do, what society and what people do, it is not really what the government wants to do. There are only calls for people to behave in the face of one threat or another. And you said there were gauges. But I read in this document that metrics do not mean that they impose specific restrictions or support measures. The surveyors are declarative, just as there is a declarative traffic light. Can you imagine there's a traffic light on the street, as it is here? I'm asking for an answer!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U121	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U122	Thank you. First of all, this complaint, as if I didn't read the document. On the contrary, I have worked very hard personally on this document. The State Chancellery also helps write this document and communicate with organisations by collecting these proposals. You want the country to tell everyone what to do. I would like our social organisation to be one where people know and can take responsibility. The infection spreads from person to person, the infection does not spread, I don't know, from Riigikogu to government or government to some organization, it spreads between people. Therefore, people can also change their behavior so that the infection does not spread. Why else would we say 2 plus 2 rule? That means we're dating and keeping two meters apart. We say we wear a mask indoors, because then the virus won't spread. It's human behavior. This isn't some organization that's helping spread the infection. Now it's about the traffic light. You're saying the traffic light is mandatory. Of course, the traffic light is mandatory, but maybe you don't know, but I personally don't know who decides how long the green light burns. After all, it is part of this plan that the metrics that have been agreed are untied from this plan. All people can follow them, they are published on the crisis.ee page, but they can be used to determine whether they are yellow, green or red. Same as traffic management. Yes, we know how we have to behave when the light turns red, then we stop, i.e. we change our behavior, but who regulates how long the red light burns in the traffic lights for pedestrians, we don't agree.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U123	Now one more question, Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U124	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I will return to my first question today. You have stated that you have not been so familiar with the circumstances of the excessive demonstration of force that has taken place in these demonstrations, and you have been monitoring through social media. At least that's how I got it. And you don't make those decisions. Kristian Jaan, with whom we ended our meeting a little while ago, asked Helle-Moonika Helme as the last question, since when have the Health Board been handed out machine guns? In fact, some of the people in the blue suites or black suitcases had a Health Board label on their back and had an automatic in their hands. It was amazing that Kristian Jaani said that he had been following events too, but he doesn't know anything about it, and he takes the question with him to give an answer. It's amazing to me right now. It is, of course, the Government of the Republic that governs the life of the State and also gives orders to the authorities of the executive power of the State to act in this way and to carry out such acts as are necessary in a democratic society. But there is now a situation where the Minister of the Interior doesn't know what the Police and Border Guard Board is doing, and the Prime Minister doesn't know what the Police and Border Guard Board is doing. Basically, the executive authority, the police, is doing what they want. My question is this: are you even able and able to lead the country if you are unable to run the Police and Border Guard Board? Or have you accepted a situation involving a police state?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U125	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U126	Thank you. We have different jobs. Just as the Prime Minister does not run the Police and Border Guard Board, the Prime Minister does not run the Competition Authority, the Land Administration, the Tax Administration or all other agencies. We have different levels of leadership, and that is how it should be. The police act on their own threat assessment and take decisions at their operational level, and these questions about operational moves need to be asked. What are the rules they obey? Very simple. The police operate under the following laws: firstly, the Constitution, which is superior to all laws, is the Law of Law Enforcement and, in this case, the Law on the Prevention and Control of Diseases, is also the law on the prevention and control of communicable diseases. As far as I know, the police are working on telling people to disperse, because the risk of spreading an infectious disease is still high. And indeed, it's still high. Why are we still subject to restrictions? That's because we have to prevent this next jump where our medical system isn't gonna make it. That is exactly the case, everyone has a role to play in society as well as in the organisation of state life. And I don't think it's appropriate for a single level leader to go directly to the second level manager's job.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U127	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U128	Let us move on to question five. It has been submitted by a member of the Riigikogu, Helmen Kütt, a member of the government of the Social Protection Minister Signe Riisalo, and the topic is taking place in connection with the pandemic. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U129	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister for Social Protection! The pandemic has led to a greater workload for very many people, as well as a higher health risk. The Minister of Health and Labour has spoken a great deal about the concerns of health professionals and has sought solutions. The Minister for Education and Science has raised this as a very big issue and has spoken about the heavy workload of teachers and the help they need. The Estonian Social Work Association has addressed the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Social Protection, the Minister of Health and Labour as well as the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu and the Social Affairs Committee with its proposals concerning the state's budget strategy. Here are a number of points that are asked to consider and solve. I think you have a good opportunity to talk about what are the issues concerning social workers with which you are going to negotiate. Because, in the social field, it is the focus of this large volume of work [remaining]. Sometimes the only ones who go to a person who is left alone, namely care workers, social workers. Coping with people who are alone at home and need support, just as they needed before a pandemic, depends largely on social workers. Very little has been said about them. The local governments will certainly sense it and support it as much as possible, but, as you can understand, the topic that these people need greater support from the state as well, and that there should be equal guarantees of reaching them across Estonia, even in the form of training, needs more attention from the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U130	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U131	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mrs. Helmen Hunter! Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Helmen Kütt has raised a very important issue. And in this sense, I am pleased that the Estonian Social Work Association is a representative organisation of social work, but also a very good partner for the Ministry of Social Affairs. In its activities, the Estonian Social Work Association has actually received support from the Ministry of Social Affairs. Both reputational design in the field of social work and organisation of annual conferences, maintaining qualifications, developing professional standards, modernising social work ethics, mentoring for social workers, all of this is actually something that ESTA itself can do for this year and for the next year, with nearly EUR 200000 of the European Social Fund. However, as far as the State is concerned, both in the context of the supplementary budget and in the context of the RES negotiations, social resources have been planned. EUR 1.2 million of the additional budget planned for this year for special care and rehabilitation services. This resource will go first and foremost to provide workers with a vision and supervision service in order to keep the people who work at the heavy front line mentally healthy. Similarly, the provision of e-training to special welfare supervisors, as there are now and now more opportunities for training from a distance than when they come together physically. The purchase of tablets to customers, as well as the use of rapid tests to bring people in general and special care together with their loved ones. In a longer-term perspective, one very important issue that we have also put on the table in the negotiations on the state budget, namely a new form of financing in general care in order to reduce the costs of the individual and the individual themselves and to ensure a better quality of service. We also face major challenges in the financing of special care. I would specifically like to stress that we have the resources to implement the reform of children with special needs, but in the longer term. Most importantly, however, we continue and vigorously try to bring the mental health issues into the picture so that they do not fall off the table at the moment when the crisis seems to be over, but people still need support. So we also continue to have spiritual health in the picture.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U132	And now the first point to be clarified. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U133	Thank you very much. It's very good to hear from you about these activities and plans. Very many of these affected clients, or those employed by social workers. I simply stress that in this address there was also a request to ensure that the salaries of special welfare supervisors agreed in the 2015 regulation will increase by up to 95% by 2022 of the salaries of nursing staff. These are the very necessary steps for people working for social workers. So far, the Ministry has also been very supportive of all these fine events, which unfortunately now, during the pandemic, have not been carried out. That's great. I hope that this evil virus will disappear and these activities will continue, so that social workers can organise recognition events and training through ESTA. But just a question, now another aspect concerning data systems. SKAIS2, I don't want to call it that because I know it's a very big worried kid. In fact, the tools that social workers have, and these databases, which take a long time to complete, are not linked to each other in such a way as to ease the work, but, in fact, all this takes away a considerable part of valuable working time. Perhaps there is reason to admit that the SKIAIS2 has failed, to start a clean slate and to create a system that also takes greater account of social workers' proposals? How do you feel about that? But once again, thank you. Because it's about to be realized that as a person in the field, you're dealing with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U134	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mrs Helmen Kütt, for the clarification question. I'll come back to the last question for a second. With regard to special care and rehabilitation services, these are mainly meant for social workers, not for customers, as well as for supervisions, but also for e-training. Looking back a little bit in history, between 2015 and 2019 the gross wage of the immediate providers of special care has increased by 34%. However, according to the data provided by the Ministry of Finance, the average gross wage in social welfare in 2010 was 512 euros and had risen to 1062 for the previous year. Regrettably, this continues to be only 73% of the average gross wage we have in Estonia, and this is certainly a challenge that both the government and I, as a minister, have to deal with. The other half was the SKAIS2, which you mentioned. I think you mean STAR, which is a social services data register that is used by local governments and service providers. SKAIS2 or SKAIS as an ervikus is similarly a social service database, but it is primarily intended for use by public authorities. True, S.T.A.R. has been developed some time ago. All digital solutions and e-solutions evolve over time because life itself is progressing, and the convenience and convenience of the social worker is crucial in order for valuable social worker time to be spent not on the computer, but on working with the client. I fully agree that updating the social services data register is a constant challenge in my position, where the well-being and ease of work of the social workers in the local government are one of the objectives that we also seek to ensure more and more every day in the local government department of the Social Insurance Board. Whether it is a digital tool or an evidence-based working method, the implementation of which we help to support, or simply guidance and advice in drawing up a local development plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U135	Thank you. And now one more question. Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U136	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I will take note of your sentence in which you said, in answer to Mr Helmen's first question, that mental health is still in focus. We all probably know these stories about the increase in suicide attempts among children and young people, domestic violence, the spiritual concerns of the elderly living alone, the unemployed, the mental health of people with severe illness, the problems of families that have lost loved ones, etc. Apparently, there are a lot of topics in your administration that people who we often call clients are exposed to. But I don't want to talk about customers here. We know about the problems of access to psychiatric assistance, the cost of psychological assistance. I'd still like to be more specific. Tell me as much as you can in three minutes to explain in more detail. How does our current government still contribute and now intends to contribute in the coming months so that our people's mental health does not deteriorate further? Because this year's corona has probably had a major impact on the mental health of our people. And we'll probably see the fruits of it for years to come. In more detail, please explain what is behind the fact that mental health is still in focus!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U137	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U138	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr Odines, for a very well-founded and correct question. It is also reasonable to give two views here: first of all, the view that we are taking this year here and now at the moment of crisis, and the second view that we are trying to go to in the coming years. The additional budget for this year is planned at 2.85 million specifically for mental health services. This list of social problems you brought back a moment ago is certainly much wider, and there are also permanent activities in the area of domestic violence, victim support, etc. However, 2.85 million to have access to immediate assistance, access to clinical psychologists, access to the family doctor therapy fund, we will give more than a million more if the additional budget of the Riigikogu is handled nicely so that the service is available to people here and now. You're saying clinical psychology is low. I agree. That is why we also want clinical psychologists working in private practice to be able to provide this service, through family doctors. And there is also an important resource, one million, for those children who are self-injuring, for a very specific closed facility service for these children. But I am sure that additional funding will also be available for all the aid lines to maintain their capacity here and now, in times of crisis. The Minister of Public Administration has already talked about EUR 15 million, which goes to local governments and which can support people at the primary level with both mental health services and other supporting support services, whether it is a supporter of a family with children in distance training or support and assistance to older people who are isolated and therefore unable to cope with their daily activities. It is very important to stress that, according to recent surveillance studies, the most vulnerable group is young people aged 15 to 24, who are essentially at three times the risk compared to older people when we look at the frequency of their symptoms of depression, anxiety and exhaustion. In the long term, both primary and mid-level services need to be developed on mental health issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U139	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U140	Let us move on to the next question. It has been submitted by a member of the Riigikogu, Martin Helme, a member of the government, Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, and the subject is a police state. Martin Helme, please! [[Silence.]] Dear Martin Helme, you are not to be heard. Now it is, so please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U141	[[Remote connection]] I'm sorry! But actually, you should see me, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U142	I can see the photo.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U143	OK. Let's try. We have a very serious social problem and this problem is called building a police state. This police state is built in many different ways. Of course, part of this police state is a censorship for media authorities foreseen in the Media Services Act, while the other part is the new severe penalties and powers imposed on the police by the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases. And the signal from the whole country, which we have seen a lot in recent days and weeks, takes the view that there is a government that gives orders and orders, and then there is a people who must obey. A peaceful demonstration in Toompea began to gather against such signals and pending draft laws a couple of days ago. It was peaceful for days, until the police decided to escalate the situation, essentially use force against the people, and perform a show of intimidation and power. Among other things, barricades were placed in front of the Toompea Castle, the Constitutional People's Institution, without the Riigikogu's management being informed about it or asked about it. I have a question: who decided when and on the basis of what data decided that there was a need for confrontation between the people and the police in Estonia, and that disproportionate power needed to be used against peaceful demonstrators?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U144	Thank you. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U145	Thank you. Estonia is a democratic country in which everyone has the right to express themselves. Last year, when there was an emergency, demonstrations were banned, and even two people who wanted to protest in front of Stenbock could not do so. This is not prohibited at the moment, but we are dealing with a very high level of contagious disease. And in order to limit the very high prevalence of infectious disease, we have a dispersal requirement, i.e. even in the field, there is a requirement of 2 + 2. The police, working with the Health Board, have observed this dispersal requirement. I know that in these demonstrations, too, the police communicate peacefully and explain that people stay away from each other. I do not know that this would somehow be a show of force, but it is really to ensure that we do not spread the contagious disease again, so that hospitals are under pressure. I also read an article from a medical professional a few days ago. He wrote that he knew that he would see many of these very protestors soon in the hospital, precisely because this is where the contagious disease is spreading. So the police are acting according to their own threat assessment, and I think everything has been going quite peacefully. The Estonian person is quite peaceful in this sense. Of course, it must be borne in mind that provocators will certainly come into the crowd for such demonstrations. I was told by a protestor who expressed his concern that he would be given a coercive vaccination. I told you there was no plan. Then he told me how he heard yesterday when one of the protestors said we were throwing a bottle at the police. I'm sure that's not the way this lady behaves. He wants to express his concern at the demonstration, and he is right to do so. But people who do not have such positive and clear intentions for the Estonian state, in fact, may even be clear about the intentions, but they are not benevolent.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U146	And now the point to be clarified. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U147	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I hope I'm heard.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U148	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U149	Of course, I could not answer my question about who decided and when decided. I am very sorry that neither the Prime Minister nor the Minister for the Interior, with whom we had a meeting in the Group today, can absolutely understand what a great evil they have sown with the behaviour of this last week or weekend. We have suffered a disgraceful damage to the police's reputation, where police officers have been confronted with their own people. We have had a disgraceful alienation of the state and citizens. After all, we saw how peaceful demonstrations against the government or against government policy took place in the country, to which the power of the state reacted with practices familiar with Belarus, under the leadership of a liberal government. And stories about how outdoor gatherings are so dangerous that you have to go with automatics, rubber bats, dogs, to be honest, aren't you embarrassed? People travel more closely on the tram in the morning than they are on the Freedom Square. People who play the Estonian anthem on the cello or play the guitar will be taken away. And then they say the police's threat assessment. Such police or operational commanders shall be immediately removed from office. If you don't release them, you'll give a clear signal that you approve of all this. And in that case, your appointment is not suitable. Who is responsible for the fact that the Estonian state acted completely disproportionately against peaceful demonstrations?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U150	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U151	Thank you. Certainly, the protesters who express their opinion have the right to do so. That's the right in a democratic country. But whether there are 30 or 100, they still do not represent the entire nation, but represent primarily themselves at the demonstration. Again, we have restrictions at the moment. I agree with the growing tensions in society, and these tensions are linked to the frustration that arises from these restrictions. We're all tired of this situation. This corona virus has been harassing us for over a year now. And for more than a year there has been anxiety about the increase in infection rates, there is anxiety about businesses and organisations having to shut down, there is anxiety about people losing their jobs, as well as the fact that traditional entertainment is not currently possible because theatres, cinemas and other entertainment facilities are closed. As a result, tensions in society have increased. I assure you that the government's desire is not to keep the restrictions for one day more than is necessary to prevent the spread of the contagious disease. If we have rules, it is in the interests of all those who follow the rules correctly and take into account that the medical system still has a very heavy burden of more than 500 people in the hospital, who are corona positive and suffer from this disease very seriously, that those who do not follow the rules are called to order. Otherwise, there is no point in laying down any rules unless we adhere to them.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U152	And now for an additional question, Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U153	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! When I asked you why you did not intervene in the activities of the government or in the activities of the bodies that are subordinate to the government, you said that you were the Prime Minister and that this question had to be submitted to the leaders of the relevant body. But the Prime Minister! You're a woman, you're a mother, a child's mother. How did you guys look at those moments where, let's say, a cello-playing woman with her child next to her, and who gets pulled to the teeth by armed men, mother wants to take away, child panicked, crying? Or another case: the mother pushing the pram, next to the child, also hysterical. What's the "positive" emotional charge for all of this? How did you look at everything that happened, where in my opinion children were clearly overreacted and suffering in this process? The question is, did it move your heart in any way? Did you ever want to take the phone and get involved in this process, or did it leave you absolutely cold?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U154	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U155	Thank you. Since we are in the middle of discussions on the country's budget strategy, while the corona crisis is at the top, we are overburdened in hospitals, I really do not follow demonstrations on-line and what is happening there exactly. Therefore, all the descriptions you present here may be true, but knowing your own behaviour, as far as I have encountered you in the Riigikogu, I tend to believe that you do not always present the real truth. These are emotional descriptions. You say the police have overreacted. I didn't get the information that the police had overreacted. Once the police have crossed their jurisdiction, people will have the opportunity to turn to law enforcement agencies and have the right to go through the courts. As I have confirmed, everyone in the Republic of Estonia has the right to express themselves. But we also have rules that prohibit, for example, insulting a public authority, insulting the police, and penalties for that. Why? It is precisely because the credibility of the police is not undermined. The police support more than 92% of the Estonian population. I ask whose interests it is, after all, when the activities of the Estonian police are called into question. If there are isolated cases, they must be dealt with, but generally I, like the Estonian people, appreciate and trust the Estonian police.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U156	Thank you! I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U157	Let's move on to question seven. It has been submitted by Aivar Kokk, a member of the Riigikogu, and it is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, a member of the government, and the subject is excise policy. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U158	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Prime Minister! In the current situation, it is important not only to maintain public health but also to revitalise the economy through various measures. We can see that the increase in gas, diesel and electricity excise duties in May 2022 would be painfully hit by people and businesses who need timely support to emerge from the crisis. We know that in domestic households and businesses, one of the highest costs is electricity, the heating industry and the cost of transport. If the economic forecast of the Ministry of Finance turns out to be true, it is very important that, at the time of exit from the crisis, we do not place additional obligations on the shoulders of Estonian people and entrepreneurs. We have therefore initiated a legislative amendment in the Riigikogu, which would prolong the excise cuts introduced by the previous coalition until May 2023. That's where my question is. Prime Minister, how do you feel about this, in the current crisis situation, should we discuss matters and try to keep excise duties at the same level as in other Baltic countries, so that we do not burden our businesses and people and do not re-create border trade?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U159	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U160	Thank you. As you rightly pointed out, the decision to introduce excise duties on alcohol with a deadline of 30 April 2022 was the decision of the Coalition of the Fatherland, the EKRE and the Centre Party. Maybe the tax increase you're talking about was your own decision. I understand that your proposal is to reconsider this decision. Every tax policy decision has positive and negative consequences, which I am sure you know very well as the former Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Since you are the former Chairman of the Monetary Commission, I have seen what you yourself have said about this increase in excise duty. Aivar Kokk, an additional budget for excise duties on 6 April 2020: "We have clearly agreed that these [excises] will go down for two years. At the same time, we have a clause that, if the economy is already rising by at least 2%, we will come back to excise duties and then they will be quietly raised to some extent." The economic forecast of the Ministry of Finance for this year is 2.5%. So, at your request, excise duties would start to rise from next year. Growth is projected to be 4.8% by 2022. Now, if you believe what you said a year ago, you should have raised that excise duty or you should have raised it by next year. But I assure you, there is no such plan in this coalition. We have agreed that we have a tax peace. This means that we also do not raise or lower excise duties, which are taxes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U161	Specific question, Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U162	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Good Prime Minister! You're in one of your speeches... [[The connection's hacking. I can't hear it. The manager will intervene, but Aivar Chef will keep talking.]] At the same time, I have always said that it is important to monitor border trade and see what excise duties our neighbours have and not to raise their excise duties higher than those of their neighbours. If we look at the spring forecast of the Ministry of Finance now, we will read from it that due to the increase in diesel excise duty planned in 2022, a reduction in declaration is expected, which will lead to an increase of more than 6% in retail prices. The quantities declared will decrease by 2,6% compared to this year. The biggest negative impact comes from the increase in cross-border refueling. Refuelling, which was temporarily returned to Estonia, will be taken back to the neighbouring countries. It is also apparent from the forecast that, in the year before last, the border goods on diesel, reaching 65 million litres, are expected to decrease by 1.2%, or 10 million litres, this year. When we made this decision last year, most hoped that this year's corona crisis would have been overcome, but as we now see, the corona crisis will continue. Well, by the end of this year, we will be able to vaccinate our people, but in Europe we can see that there is already a third wave in progress and this crisis can be much longer. That is why it is proposed to review the decision taken last year and to extend the excise duty to keep it low.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U163	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U164	Thank you. As has been said, you yourself have said that these excise duties should be increased when the economy is already growing by at least 2%. According to the next forecast, the economy is expected to grow by 2.5%. That is why you yourself have made these decisions, after all, you had clear reasons for making these decisions when you put in the so-called sunset clause that these excise duties should rise back from 30 April 2022. As far as future-oriented decisions are concerned, I would like to reiterate that, since it has been our desire not to do tax increases or tax cuts, precisely because we have a crisis situation and we have promised a tax peace, the decision that you yourself have made will remain valid, namely that diesel and gas excise duties must be increased from 1 May 2022. So we will stick to this decision, and these are the reasons you can put forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U165	And now one more question, Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U166	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! I will come back to the previous question for a moment, so that it is not just the talk that has been said here by Martin Helme and his fellow fighters about peaceful demonstrations on Toompea. I would like to remind you that these demonstrations began in many ways by the fact that people began to gather and then there were threats against members of the Riigikogu. I was threatened with liquidation, my groupmates have been threatened with liquidation. We talked to the online police who approached these people. They said that they didn't really mean to physically liquidate the Riigikogu, but simply to liquidate the Riigikogu. But then came the threats of colleagues that bullets in their spines. The demonstration was carried around with a gallows' tree of traitors with a rope and a gallows' tree and a sign that it was a gallows' tree of traitors. So talking about a peaceful demonstration here maybe a little too much. I think the police have been very polite to say the truth, and I have also been suspended and asked where I am going. Well, I'm not as famous as Kert Kingo, of course. That's why I didn't take offense, I said I was going to the Riigikogu and there was no more problem. But I'm still struggling with the fact that in many ways these demonstrators and demonstrators have come together on the basis of false information. It does say that people are being vaccinated, that there is no korona, that hospitals are empty, that it is a tavagropp, etc. That's where my question comes from. Perhaps you have an opinion or an understanding of where such claims come from. Is this pure stupidity, or is this some kind of targeted information operation, or is it a combination of them?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U167	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U168	Thank you. Thank you for the explanations regarding this demonstration. I agree with you that there is a great deal of misinformation about this bill. I really like a quote that I often use. It's from Winston Churchill, who after World War II said the lie was halfway around the world before the truth got its pants on. If we put it in the context of today's information society, we will see that the lie actually spreads very quickly and has a great many believers. What's going to help you with that? I guess it helps to disprove all these false facts. Yes, the truth is much harder to get into effect, but we have also made a website crisis.ee an overview of the false claims that are spreading in connection with the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases. There are these statements and what it's really like to help people find the right information. Now the question is whether this is an information operation and if anyone is helping to spread false information. I have repeatedly said that there are certain people and groups who want Estonian society to be divided, so that we have tensions. Unfortunately, this is what people outside Estonia want, too, who may not wish Estonia so much good. Whether the people who spread this false information are just being used, or if they're malicious, I don't know what to judge. But I do suggest you turn to the crisis website.ee, where you can get this information that will help disprove the false claims that are spreading in the media.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U169	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U170	Let's move on to question eight. It has been submitted by a member of the Riigikogu, Heljo Pikhof, which is answered by the Minister for Social Protection Signe Riisalo and the topic is pension policy. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U171	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! As we may have seen and heard on the news of "Actual Camera" yesterday, 37% of pensioners who collected money in the second pillar decided to terminate the contract and withdraw the money. To date, there are nearly 8300 people who have entered into a pension contract with an insurer. And by the end of March, more than 3,000 pensioners applied to terminate the agreement. According to Eesti Pank's economist Kaspar Oja, the number of leavers shows that pension insurance needs to change. And the problem is payouts. I myself have repeatedly drawn attention to this in the Riigikogu, but it has remained for discussion. I fully understand the people who signed the pension contract. Let me give you a concrete example here. A person is... [[I can't hear the next one.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U172	I'm so sorry. Heljo Pikhof, can you hear me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U173	Yeah, I hear you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U174	But you haven't been heard for the last 25 to 30 seconds. I'm asking you to pick up the sequel again. Your voice has completely disappeared, so you have 25 seconds longer. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U175	Can you hear me now? I might say again, don't go missing. Yesterday's "Actual Camera" gave news about the second pillar...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U176	I can't hear you again. Your voice disappears in the meantime. Can't it be because you're somehow putting your hands on a microphone? I can't tell you what this is about, but you're gonna disappear completely in the meantime. Let's try it again. Please tell me your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U177	Can you hear me now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U178	If you're that way, you can hear it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U179	Okay. I'll start again, actually, it's a shame if it goes missing. As we may have seen and heard on the news of "Actual Camera" yesterday, 37% of pensioners who collected money in the second pillar decided to terminate the contract and withdraw the money. To date, there are nearly 8300 people who have entered into a pension contract with an insurer. And by the end of March, more than 3,000 pensioners applied to terminate the agreement. According to Eesti Pank's economist Kaspar Oja, the number of leavers shows that pension insurance needs to change. And the problem is payouts. I myself have repeatedly drawn attention to this in the Riigikogu, but it has remained for discussion. I fully understand the people who signed the pension contract. Let me give you a concrete example here. The person has reached retirement age and entered into a contract for payments from the second pillar. In 2011, it received EUR 52 from the second pillar and still EUR 52 in 2021. So it hasn't increased in time. The current laws allow money to be raised in the fund, but the private sector has not done so. This morning, when the Social Democratic Party of the Riigikogu met with representatives of Eesti Pank, I also asked how to get out of this dead end. And the answer was, this problem is solved by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Social Affairs. My question to the Minister is this: what are you going to change and do to ensure that the money paid out to old-age pensioners does not melt over the years and that people have faith in second-pillar payouts?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U180	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U181	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mrs Heljo Pikhof! I hope I understand everything you asked for. Well, it was a little intermittent in the meantime. But as Minister for Social Protection, my greatest concern is whether our elderly people, i.e. those aged 65 and over, are in absolute poverty or even in relative poverty. If we look at the indicators of absolute poverty, in fact 2.3% of the total Estonian population is in absolute poverty and only 1% of them are of retirement age. The situation with relative poverty is much more complicated, with 41.6% of people over the age of 65 in relative poverty. The picture becomes even more complex when it comes to a single-living pensioner, because 76.8% of them are in relative poverty. Of course, the biggest concern of the current government is how to maintain and increase pensionable incomes. A stable environment, including legislation, is certainly what helps to maintain a person's faith in the pension pool itself. On the other hand, a stable increase in pensions is also a challenge in order to meet people's real needs and costs. This coalition has set two goals. First of all, we plan to make extraordinary increases in old age pensions. I am in the Ministry of Social Affairs preparing a bill for changing both the basic pension and the national pension rate. However, the Ministry of Finance is preparing a draft, which should also include a tax exemption for the average old-age pension. So these are the plans of this government alongside teaching people about saving, collecting, and also smart choices with the second pillar.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U182	Specific question, Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U183	First of all, I have a procedural question. I thought the minister didn't hear me. I am happy to repeat my question, because I asked something entirely different when he answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U184	Please take another question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U185	I'd love to ask you the first question. I'm gonna go over what I really want an answer to. The problem is payouts from the second pillar of the pension. Those who now terminated their pension contract did not do so rashly. Let me rediscover this particular example. The person has reached retirement age and entered into a contract for payments from the second pillar. If it received EUR 52 per year from the second pillar in 2011, by 2021 it will have the same amount, so it has not increased in time. Our laws make it possible to raise money in a fund, but the private sector has not done so. The representative of Eesti Pank has said that the problem is to solve the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Social Affairs. And that's my question: what are you going to change so that the money paid out to old-age pensioners doesn't melt over the years, so that you don't get ten years and more, maybe the rest of your life, all the time, the same amount that you've ever been given?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U186	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U187	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mrs Heljo Pikhof! I'll come back to my last answer in that sense. The portfolio of the Minister for Social Protection includes dealing with old-age pensions. In the same way, we have aimed at advising people of retirement age and approaching retirement through the Social Insurance Board, and also by developing this capacity in the Social Insurance Board. The first steps have been taken and we will try to move forward. The logic of collecting the second pillar is largely a matter of the Ministry of Finance, which the Minister for Social Protection cannot change much. If the Minister of Social Protection, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, plans to solve pensions and older people's livelihoods, then I can do this first and foremost by raising the pension base as well as the national pension, but also, if necessary, by raising the income of a single pensioner, and precisely by these measures. For this reason, I cannot respond very well now to how to improve the logic of collecting the second pillar or how to make payouts better and more flexible so that people have higher incomes than the second pillar. Stability is, of course, important. When a person has started to raise money in the first pillar, it should be a long-term process that would result in greater payouts for a person in the future. Interim changes and confusion in the legal space will certainly not contribute to a stable collection.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U188	Procedural question Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U189	[[Remote connection]] I can't ask another question, but maybe I'd mention one thing. I have every confidence in Eesti Pank and Eesti Pank said that this is a direct task for both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Social Affairs. If the private sector does not deal with the growth of funds, these two ministries will have to solve the problem. I remember that when we made changes here, in earlier times this was also discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs and in the presence of the Minister for Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U190	Thank you. Let's move on. Additional question, Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U191	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. A little clarification in response to Heljo Pikhof: people still collect money in the second pillar, not in the first one. But my question. Since pensions are on your desk and you have very nicely identified both the subject of relative poverty and everything else, such as the issue of coping with old age, do you have a plan for average pensions to be exempt from income tax? And what can be done for working pensioners? What have you planned? Because there's two years to deal with this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U192	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U193	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mrs. Helmen Hunter! Yes, as I said in reply to Mrs Pikhof, the government has two big plans for pensions. These plans are an extraordinary pension increase and an income tax exemption for the average pension. Regardless of whether a person of retirement age is working or not, this tax exemption is planned. These discussions, how exactly this is going to happen and what amounts we can talk about, relate in the same way to both the resources generated by exiting the second pillar, and the coalition's agreement to spend only on increasing pensions and creating favourable conditions, as well as on the wider possibilities of the state budget. We will certainly spend a large part of our energy in the process of negotiating the state budget on discussing the good solutions for ensuring a higher pension for pensioners in the future. As I said, I and my officials have prepared a draft on the rise of the basic part of the pension, but also on the increase of the national pension, in order to ensure that it is primarily for older people whose pension has not been excessive so far. Income tax exemption for an average pension could rather help those over the age of retirement who have higher incomes. In order to maintain a balance between the different groups of people of retirement age, current plans are such. Which agreements and the numbers we will reach during the negotiations will, I believe, be shown in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U194	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U195	Let us move on to question nine. Asks Kert Kingo, answers Prime Minister Kaja Kallas and the subject is the rule of law. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U196	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! I am also talking about what took place last week in front of the Riigikogu and in Vabaduse Square and in several other places as a police demonstration of force, where special forces armed with special equipment and wearing masks used various means of coercion and aggression against people who peacefully expressed their minds. There were many children, women, and elderly people among those who were using such tools to correct them. None of these expressions of their mind had been identified as either a cold or a firearm. After all, the protesters had committed no violations, they broke nothing, they did not steal or defamate anything. People were just playing music and singing. The deployment of special armed forces to suppress the demonstration was therefore an obvious exaggeration of power and over-reaction. It was a demonstration of weaponry and force to intimidate people. And my question is whether, as your Prime Minister and Head of Government, you gave an order, as it was now in this Question Time, it became clear, at the request of Valdo Randpere, to involve special forces to suppress the demonstration of these people. Or if it wasn't you, who specifically gave the order? And then there is the question: who and how is responsible for this exaggeration of power?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U197	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U198	Thank you. As far as I know, these people are gonna show up today. Estonia is a democratic country where it is perfectly permissible to express its mind. Peacefully, these people can do it. Unlike last spring, when during an emergency, protests were banned, and even two people who wanted to protest against the government's actions at Stenbock were driven out of there, and people I know now can protest. And that's how it should be. The police will decide their moves according to the threat assessment. As far as I know, there have been no major incidents.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U199	A procedural question, Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U200	Thank you. I'm gonna have to be more specific now. It was said here that I had called the police or called the police. That's not true. What I said was that I was threatened to be eliminated. And I'm not gonna wait for my quiet and dying liquidation like that. So I did indeed appeal to the police for help and protection from a specific threat. This person was interviewed, and he claimed that he did not mean the threat as acutely as he described it. By the way, the same person threatened to liquidate Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U201	Thank you. I'm sorry, but that wasn't a procedural question in this case. I will conclude on this issue. I thank all the members of the Riigikogu for their questions, I thank the Prime Minister, the Minister of State Administration and the Minister of Social Protection for their answers. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U202	Ladies and gentlemen, Also on my left hand, please, maybe we can keep it down a little bit! We're few in the hall, but we'd still like to hear each other. The excitement is great, I understand. Nevertheless, we will begin the session of the 11th working week of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. And as usual, we have the opportunity to hand over drafts and inquiries. Mr. Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U203	Ladies and gentlemen, The Estonian Conservative People's Party has decided to submit a draft amending the Penal Code. We have two important, or three important, additions. First of all, the law is intended to be supplemented by § 1371 "Sun vaccination', which concerns placing a person in a situation where he or she is forced to vaccinate for a medical purpose by either violence, fraud, threat of harm, dependence on another person, exploitation of his or her position or termination of his or her employment relationship. Another important amendment to the Penal Code would be: §138 (1) is amended and worded as follows: "For carrying out a medical or scientific study with a person who had not voluntarily given his or her consent or who had not been informed of the significant risks of the study before giving his or her consent... " The penalty is eight to 20 years, or life imprisonment. And in order not to remain very airtight, anonymous, we would like to amend Paragraph 88 (1) so that, in addition to its immediate perpetrator, a representative of the state or a military commander who has ordered the commission of the crime or whose consent the offence has been committed or who has not prevented the commission of the crime, although it has been within his power, or who, knowing that the person under his authority has committed the crime, has not submitted a report of the offence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U204	Tarmo Kruusimäe, is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U205	Yeah, I do have a procedural question. This Question Time today, we could get an e-mail for that kind of information. We make a point, and we receive such one-sided information in response. There's no debate. Is the opposition responsible for asking too much, giving an information session input, or should we stick to more form of questioning, because the questioning actually allows for a real debate? Today, the one who asked the question in Question Time was asked, and then there was another person in the Chamber. If we were to look at all the points in Question Time today, they would have needed a longer debate, but it would not be allowed. How does the board deal with this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U206	Thank you! That was not a very procedural question. To comment, I will only say so much that as many as there are requests for questions in the Question Time, so many of them can be registered on the Board. And if there is some time left, then you can discuss some issues further. If there are fewer questions, we can allow two questions on the ground. Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U207	I have a procedural question. How do you know if there's time? In important debates, we must find the time, not so that we can talk if there is time. So should we extend the briefing, or should we focus more on the form of the inquiry, because then the debate is open? How do you figure "if there's time"?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U208	It's very easy to understand. If there are less questions than time planned, here's the practice that we're going to open the microphone for all the questions that come from the hall. If there are more questions than time, the Question Time according to our rules of procedure will still last 12:00-14. A member of the Riigikogu always has the opportunity to submit an inquiry. Mr. Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U209	Thank you, Mr President. I have a procedural proposal for the Bureau to consider organising an appointment for board members. Some colleagues have a great desire to discuss different nuances, and that could be done. Issues quite pertinent, but they could perhaps be discussed with members of the Bureau outside the Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U210	This can be done now, even on Ossinovski, by Evgeny. Please! All right, let's move on to today's hearing. We need to conduct a presence check. Please, presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U211	90 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present. For the sake of the protocol, I note that I have adopted a draft and that it will be decided on the basis of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U212	Today's first item is already familiar to us from Monday: it is an inquiry by Riigikogu members Raimond Kaljulaid, Indrek Saare, Ivari Padari, Heljo Pikhof, Lauri Läänemets and Eduard Odines into the design of tax policy. Raimond Kaljulaid makes an introductory appeal to the heirs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U213	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Colleagues! Dear Minister, It is no secret that the Estonian state has been spending longer than its powers, and that was also the case before the Coronavirus crisis. The State's costs exceeded revenue even when the economy was still in good times. At the time of the adoption of this year's state budget, the government forecast the general government budget deficit at around 7% of GDP. According to the new coalition agreement of the government led by Kaja Kallas, the government's aim is to quote'move towards a balance with the state budget', while under the coalition agreement, the government will again quote 'don't introduce new taxes and ensure a stable tax environment'. If there is no substantial increase in the State's tax revenue, the State must therefore reduce its expenditure. Prime Minister Kaja Kallas said to the national broadcasters last Sunday that his government (I quote again) "must find places to kill and make painful decisions." Several economic experts, as well as international institutions such as the OECD, have strongly advised Estonia to consider changes in the tax structure, including the introduction of property taxes. Estonia's tax policy favours the wealthiest people in many ways. One example is that in the previous crisis, VAT was raised to increase the revenue of the state, which, of course, hits more households with lower incomes. We don't tax property. For several decades, we have not carried out a regular land assessment. As a result, for example, the collection of land tax constitutes a rather insignificant part of the budget of the city of Tallinn, the largest municipality of Estonia. Estonia is known to be the only country in Europe where cars are not taxed, and we are the last country in the European Union in terms of the share of property taxes in GDP. When proposals for tax changes have been made, they are generally immediately rejected. I would remind you that the Minister for Social Affairs of the previous government proposed a solution for financing long-term care through care insurance. It didn't get anywhere. The city of Tallinn has proposed the introduction of a tourism tax and the creation of an opportunity to generate additional revenue for the city. That hasn't got anywhere either. The Minister for Health of the current government has proposed one idea on how to provide additional funding for health care, and this was also rejected without further ado by the other party of the government coalition. At the same time, for example, the United States and the United Kingdom, which have also increased expenditure and budget deficits in this crisis, are considering very seriously and are planning to make various tax changes to finance this area in the future. In its annual report submitted to the Riigikogu last year, the National Audit Office has stated that the sustainable offer of priority services, education, medical care, rescue and police is, in fact, in question everywhere in Estonia except Harjumaa and Tartumaa. And these are major systemic problems that require longer reflection than one electoral cycle. Certainly, the introduction or consideration of property taxes would not solve these concerns quickly, would not solve all these problems, but the debate on property taxes is still an opportunity to move forward with a broader debate on taxes. And I believe that it is precisely for this reason that Mr Hansson, the economic adviser to Kaja Kallas, raised this issue. I'm sure Stenbock's house will never do anything by accident. Finally. It is absolutely peculiar that we have taken a position in an exceptionally rapid state of technological, economic and social change, and for years and years and years, in a very long period of time, that changing the tax system is a complete taboo issue. Most Estonian political parties and politicians want to address the issue of taxation as much as the sea mine that has come to the surface. I think that there is an exceptionally welcome expertise in handling both taxes and mines, as well as a calm mind. And that is what I would like for the debate that follows here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U214	Inquiries for this inquiry are answered by Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U215	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for asking the heirs about this asset payment. I certainly agree with the introduction to the consultation on behalf of the Socialists that the issue of taxation is an issue that needs to be debated. This debate must be held. For my part, however, it would, of course, be a pity if this important debate were somehow reduced to a simplified debate on whether or not to introduce new taxes or raise existing taxes. In order to grow the economy, solutions that support new growth are certainly needed, which would support new technologies, better Estonian export capacity, export capacity of our companies and also investment in Estonia. How best to achieve this is how the tax environment, the wider regulatory environment, could support these objectives, and should be at the heart of this debate. We all know that we are about to have that time in Estonia or the situation in which people of working age are becoming fewer and fewer. This means that putting an ever-increasing tax burden on a growing number of taxpayers without, for example, seriously discussing how to reduce the burden of still quite large labour taxes in Estonia would be one-sided. But now you're asking yourself questions. Since the Riigikogu is now about two days behind the scheduled schedule for this week's agenda, I promise that I will be compact and concrete in my responses. A total of five questions were asked by the respondents from the Social Democratic Party. I'm not going to read the questions, but I'm referring to what the question was about. In particular, the questions concerned the analysis of one or the other property tax at the Ministry of Finance. The first question concerned property taxes, an analysis of property taxes. And there, as the inquisitor has also quoted, it is certainly important that tax policy is stable and simple. I would like to begin by stressing the decision quoted by the rapporteur that the current government is not planning to introduce new taxes. Also, analyses of the introduction of new property taxes by the Ministry of Finance in recent years, say, have not been carried out in the last three or four years. The second question concerned the taxation of real estate, whether we have analysed the taxation of real estate in the Ministry of Finance. Here, too, it is certainly known to the heirs that the introduction of real estate tax in Estonia in general has not found any support, and the Ministry of Finance has not carried out a separate analysis of this either. The third question concerned car taxation, i.e. the introduction of a car tax. Yes, again I can respond in the same way that the taxation of motor vehicles has not been analysed in the Ministry of Finance over the last few years. The last time the Ministry of Finance dealt with this issue was about five years ago, and lately the introduction of car tax has not been a separate issue. The heirs also have a question about land tax. In the case of land tax, there have been no changes compared to what was introduced in the first half of last year when it was decided that the next evaluation would be 2022. But it is certainly important that the current tax rate is decreasing. There are drafts in preparation under the direction of Jaak Aab and the government will present them to the Riigikogu shortly. The maximum rate for residential land is 0.5%, but also for land-revenue land. Similarly, as it was introduced last spring, the maximum annual land tax increase limit is 10%. So no human or legal person can grow more than 10% compared to the previous year. The draft also maintains the current system of tax-free domestic land. The last question was whether the Ministry of Finance had analysed any other additional introduction of the abovementioned property taxes. To conclude, I will simply reiterate that we are about to emerge from the crisis, hopefully, leading the country out of the crisis. Uncertainty, fickleness is so much without further tax confusion. We are not planning any new taxes, and that is indeed true. However, as has been said, if we look further, knowing that we have a number of challenges to tackle, both in the labour market and in the financing of different national policies and, in fact, in the course of major changes in the country, we will mention even green jumps, then it will certainly be one of the most important debates in the coming years, probably in the run-up to the next parliamentary elections. But I'm gonna stop answering what I started. It would be very important for this debate not only to focus on the debate on tax increases in a simple way, but also to look for ways of reducing the tax burden on workers and, above all, for the economy to help new growth through tax policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U216	Thank you! The questions will be started by Eduard Odines. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U217	Thank you. Good minister! Thank you for these answers, but it is actually very unfortunate to hear that, despite the recommendations of international organisations and the opinion of Estonia's own experts, you have not found an opportunity or the need to analyse the possibilities in our tax system. But I will guide you on your advice, and I will not talk about taxes. I'm talking about teachers. Estonia, as we know, has a very good level of education, but lack of teachers puts our education at great risk. The report of the National Audit Office, mentioned by my colleague Raimond, points out that we have a lot of pedagogies that are about to reach retirement age, with too few young people being added. It is already difficult to find qualified teachers in several areas of Estonia. The cuts promised by the Prime Minister must also concern the education sector. Good Minister, how can we solve the problem of lack of teachers without finding additional money in the field of education?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U218	Thanks to the questioner! The education sector, as well as the health and social sectors, as certainly internal security and rescuers, is clearly a necessity for all of them to meet the level of expectations that people have in their services. And I didn't say for nothing that the first thing was not to talk about new taxes or tax increases. In any case, by putting together the current national budget strategy in all areas, it is also the task of looking for ways of using public money, taxpayers' money as efficiently as possible and, above all, of directing it where the need is greatest. The state budget in Estonia is quite large and opportunities to do so need to be found. I can say that, at the moment, all the members of the cabinet are precisely looking for solutions and proposing reform proposals that will help the country to be better prepared for the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U219	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U220	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mr President. Good Minister, I will take your report from the last sentence. I also believe that taxes do not always have to be increased; sometimes there are opportunities to increase turnover. And here's my question. I very much ask for your position on the reduction of VAT on fruit and vegetables, which has been requested for quite a long time by growers. In Latvia, their VAT has been reduced from 21% to 5%. Four countries have not been brought down: Denmark, Bulgaria, Lithuania and Estonia. I know that the Ministry of Finance has carried out a study and has come to the conclusion that such an activity would not have a positive effect. But in every study, you get what you ask for. The aim of Latvia was not to lower prices to consumers, but to improve the competitiveness of producers and to legalise the entry of production into the market, i.e. to increase turnover. And that goal was achieved. Do you agree to consider lowering VAT on fruit and vegetables in Estonia as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U221	Thank you. For each additional benefit, of course, the first step is to look at how much this would actually help to alleviate pain. In the same way, any additional advantage will have to be used to dispel and immediately find the cover at which, or by reshaping, which cost savings will make it possible to cover the change. No additional incentives are currently planned.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U222	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U223	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! I will continue on the subject of teachers, teachers' salaries. According to the Lifelong Learning Strategy, the average wage of teachers was to be 120% of the average wage in the country as early as last year. The actual figure was 112% last year. At the same time, the decision of the previous government, which has frozen teachers' salaries in full for the next four years, remains valid. I ask for an answer, how and by what time exactly will the target set in the strategy on teachers' salaries be met? I am asking for a very specific answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U224	Thank you, good questioner! The country's budgetary strategy, which sets the framework for the country's financial resources for the next four years, is currently in discussion with the government. This strategy will be completed, as the law says, by the end of April. And then it will also be possible to answer your question more specifically, but certainly within the limits of the possibilities that taxpayers give to the state. All these discussions are taking place and solutions are being sought. As you are well aware, the other half of this we still have an exceptionally large budget deficit, which will come out of in the coming years and which will require very serious efforts and changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U225	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have quite a few points on the agenda today, and if we could maintain the substance of the question, it would be better. I understand that the heirs have been primarily based on revenue, not on expenditure. But the inquisitors will be able to clarify that with their questions. Please, Raimond Kaljulaid!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U226	Well, then I will respond to the invitation of the President of the sitting. I am based on the fact that the Minister of Finance himself called for a much broader approach to tax policy. I think that these things are all connected, that the revenue and expenditure of the state will eventually run into the budget. In this sense, I certainly would not limit today's questions to the Minister of Finance. property taxes only. But my question is this. As the Minister has just said, we have a very large budget deficit, we are facing severe cuts. At the same time, we know that, for example, in the case of lists of family doctors, the average list is significantly higher than the optimal list. Are the cuts that lie ahead also affecting health care?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U227	Thank you, good questioner! My call had to do with not only talking about possible tax increases or new taxes, such as questions of inquiry drew attention to it or focused on it, but also with regard to the possibilities that, through various tax reductions, would help the economy to grow again and thereby also bring greater opportunities for the country to take decisions. I don't know why you're only focusing on savings, which I'm sure you have to do. But, above all, there is really now the hope for all the cabinet members that it is precisely the longer-acting changes and reforms that will help to be better prepared for the future in different sectors. I don't think it's wise to just take out one piece and just talk about cost savings. But it is true that reviewing and saving expenditure should actually be part of the annual national budget strategy. This has not always been the case. We'll try better this time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U228	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U229	[[Remote connection]] Good manager and minister! Your government's priority is to so-called green turns and save our world from the end. And one of these measures is that substantial changes should be made to the means of transport, that is to forget about cars with diesel and petrol engines and switch to electric cars. In fact, in order to be at the level of the scenario, about 4,000 electric cars should be added per year in Estonia. I think it was a little over 300 last year. But my question is, since in 2025 and it's already close to Paris, for example, no longer driving a motor vehicle and no other places, they're gonna flow to us here. In this light, has the government not thought of introducing a car tax, in particular on diesel engines and petrol vehicles, to save the world? Because it all flows here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U230	Thank you. The government does not intend to introduce new taxes. Nor does it intend to introduce a separate car tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U231	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U232	[[Remote connection]] Minister, thank you very much. I have been approached by a number of entrepreneurs, as well as by many voters. My question concerns diesel excise duty. I would like to hear from you what are the plans for diesel excise under the plan to raise it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U233	Thank you. The benefit of excise duty on diesel as a temporary crisis measure in this law, which was adopted last year, will end in spring next year. This is the current framework, the current law that this advantage as a crisis measure will end. The general discussions are currently taking place within the framework of putting together the national budget strategy and, as I said to one previous questioner, these discussions will end by the end of April.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U234	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U235	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Here's the question. The previous government, well its more conservative parties, loved to talk a lot about family values and different family forms and traditions, but as soon as it came to specific financial issues or issues, their enthusiasm began to fade. For example, a husband's joint declaration. It used to be allowed, it's not allowed now. And my question is: is it planned to be restored in the near future or in some distant perspective? I think it would be essential and very family-friendly to remember.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U236	Thank you. This would certainly be a good and important measure. However, we can make these decisions within the framework of the budgetary forecast that is currently in place. And one of the most important tasks we have is to restore responsible fiscal policies, which means that the creation of further concessions or changes with very significant budgetary implications must, above all, take into account both economic growth and the need to restore the budgetary balance at one point. And if the budget situation again offers us such an opportunity, then surely the change you have mentioned is one of those that needs to be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U237	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U238	Thank you. Dear Minister, In your first reply, you mentioned that a reduction in labour taxes is necessary in order to grow the economy. In this context, I have the question: what are the government's plans or your own vision of tax policy? During the elections, you spoke very actively about the need to give the wealthiest people a decent 100-euro tax gift, giving everyone the same amount of income tax-free minimum. And on the other hand, in its time, it was the idea that the minimum wage would be exempt from income tax. In recent years, the tax-free minimum has not actually been raised, the minimum wage has risen a little further and will rise further in the future. What is your preference: should the reduction in labour taxes rather be based on the fact that the tax-free minimum should apply to the minimum wage, so that the minimum wage is exempt from income tax, to help those who have lower wages, or rather to help the high wage earners?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U239	Thank you. First of all, I do not think it would be wise to contrast two things. When we talk about changes to the income tax system and income tax, what we are looking for now is about older people. This applies to people of retirement age, including those whose health permits them to continue working at retirement age. When the budget options allow us to make a change, according to which the average pension in Estonia would remain exempt from income tax, this topic will be discussed again in the ongoing discussions on the state budget strategy, which will continue for the next few weeks in the government. But in the long run, yes, I think the subject of labour taxes needs to be taken apart by itself. If this year we are projected to have a situation where labour taxes account for 56.3% of all taxes, then this is a pretty high level, that is 19.7% of GDP. Above all, I think that this debate should be in the key to what kind of workforce we want to see most in Estonia, where we want to see growth in the future. As I said in the introduction, tax policy is certainly one of those measures that must be used to support future growth. This debate is much more complex than picking up a single tax and only playing with it between profit-and-losses. I very much hope that this complex debate will begin and that it will not only focus on tax increases, but also look for ways to alleviate the pains of which the shoe squeezes the most, perhaps it would be possible to discuss and make plans to reduce taxes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U240	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U241	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The tax system, I think, doesn't have to be uniform. The tax system must be fair. And when we talk about people with particularly low incomes, we are not only talking about pensioners, but very many young families are also in a poor position. I suggest you look at the whole community together. I simply cannot understand how, in your opinion, the Estonian state should proceed. In one way, you are saying that we need to start cutting back in order to achieve a budgetary balance, in other words, teachers need to raise wages and increase all other expenditure. Okay, a little efficiency squeezes out of that budget, but if we look at the use of euro money, the National Audit Office has said that over a billion euros will actually continue to cover the fixed costs of the state from euro money. This, too, must actually be covered by taxes. At what point do you come up with proposals on the state budget? How are we going to cover these fixed costs paid out of the euro budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U242	Thank you. For all fixed costs, the only starting point cannot be how to cover existing fixed costs forever and in an increasing line. Every year, if not every month, you have to review the fixed-cost automation that's been in the past. In the case of fixed costs, there are certainly places where inertia continues as it has been before. This concerns both euro money and the system financed by Estonian taxpayers' money. In addition, there is still a need to analyse where some activities can be redesigned, done something at lower costs or with fewer people, or end something altogether. This is actually part of the analysis that needs to be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U243	I would point out that when we answer questions, we all have one question about the floor. So, good Peter Ernits, you can't ask me another question. He's asking for Tarmo Kruusimäe. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U244	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I don't understand why I don't want to show a picture here. But that's the way it is. It's like two questions in a heartbeat. The first is: if and when, in the view of the government, could VAT for catering establishments be reduced? I would like to make the comparison that, as I recall in Spain, it is 6%, we still have 20%. After 2009, we raised that rate. We said there'd be good times. Well, good times we've been here and gone. The second question to the Minister is that the Ministry of Finance proposed that adults should be denied tastes in e-liquids. Does this have anything to do with tax policy? And can you tell me if the Ministry of Finance is still in that position?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U245	Thank you. Your heart theme in the form of e-liquids is well known to me since we were both members of the Riigikogu. In answering this detailed question, I think that we will probably have the opportunity to continue this debate, and then I would like to ask against this opportunity, unfortunately, under the Rules of Procedure, I do not have the option, which is your concrete proposal at this stage. It would also be possible to provide a more detailed answer. On the first question, I will reply in the same way that if you have a proposal to make an additional bonus, it would be good to hear how this particular bonus will help the most those you would like to support with this bonus. The general logic is that tax incentives in general are the most expensive way and not the most effective way to provide support to those who need it. Secondly, if you have a proposal for an additional bonus, make an immediate proposal on how it can be covered by what restructuring or expenditure cancellations.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U246	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U247	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. It is clear from your answers that the tax peace that the coalition has decided will be preserved. In terms of austerity or review in all areas, ministers have received their responsibilities, and that is certainly correct, because indeed, it is reasonable to review certain costs. At the same time, we know that the education and social sectors, as well as health care, especially the latter, have been in constant deficit. It has been pointed out that the social sector and health care, based on the share of GDP, are still underfunded. What else to save there is questionable. But the popular initiative was proposed a few years ago and the then Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik was very supportive of it, so to introduce care insurance. Is it completely off the table in this government? Is it being analyzed, or what's the status now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U248	Thank you. The package that Tanel Kiik, as minister in this area, and now also in Signe Riisalo's view of the future, will certainly provide the government with a view to covering the ever-increasing needs of the future, will be more detailed in the second half of the year. And, as you are well aware, it still follows from the logic that the minister dealing with this area will come up with proposals for his whole package. As has been said, in the second half of the year it is probably possible to come back to this whole issue in detail, but the most sensible thing is certainly to deal with it with a member of the government who is directly involved in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U249	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U250	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Undisputed taxes, including the introduction of new taxes, are a complex issue and a matter of caution. After all, we have choices whether new taxes, cuts or hope that economic growth will compensate for the needs of society. Now, if you look at May, when a new country's budgetary strategy is going to be discussed, there have been cuts. Surely you have your own vision of what areas should be cut. Can you give an example of three important places where cuts should be made? What areas should be put under pressure?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U251	Thank you, good questioner! There's no need to pressurize. But all members of the government office are doing a really good job right now looking for ways to shape work within the sector, looking at the future, so that the growth in current daily expenditure, which has still been quite constant in the meantime, is no faster than the growth in public revenue. This must still be the opposite: that costs will increase more slowly. Only then will we be able to solve this problem. And I will actually say thank you to Helmen Hunt in response to Ivar Padari at the beginning of his question. He stressed that there really was a tax peace, and so it is understandable and reasonable in itself that we are looking for places where the country can be more efficiently delivered and that it is possible to limit the increase in running costs that have arisen in the meantime. This is the principle that the members of the government office are really based on when they put together the national budget strategy.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U252	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U253	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. As an initiative, you have recognised that we are indeed in a situation where the share of the working age population is rapidly declining. It is also clear that new forms of work will in fact inevitably reduce the classic payment of labour taxes. You already said that, of course, we have a tax debate ahead of us. But the answer to all the questions was that the Ministry of Finance has not analysed anything in recent years. I would ask you this way: if you see that this debate is needed, do you intend to order any analyses? Perhaps it would be wise to do so instead of giving out the conflicting signals you have given in your coalition agreement. On the one hand, you have promised to reduce social, economic and regional inequalities, on the other, you say that no tax will rise. Well, you can say for now that we're borrowing a lot of money and doing it on account of it, but you're not gonna do it. You are actually increasing inequality and unfair treatment, for example, through the reimbursement of sick days, by means of an additional budget decision here today. But, yes, do you have an analysis planned?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U254	Thank you, good questioner! Indeed, there are fewer taxpayers, fewer people of working age in Estonia every year. And for them, let's say, for an ever smaller number of people, putting new taxes on their backs is something that maybe for a moment seems tempting from the perspective of a few individual sectors or somehow such a simple solution would rather say yes to a simple solution. But in essence, it will not help to solve this much more structural and substantive long-term problem if we simply impose an ever-increasing tax burden on a smaller number of people. I therefore believe that inventing new taxes does not really help us out of the problem or the problem that we have to solve. But yes, I actually have a plan in the near future to bring together one such think tank of people and thinkers operating outside the state sector, with whom to plan precisely how we can improve the country's competitiveness in the longer term. It's coming.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U255	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U256	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. I don't know how we've been so stuck in this two years. Everyone understands when they read the coalition agreement that there will be no new taxes and nothing will rise, nothing will fall. That's clear. But we are talking about crisis security in all areas and helping to meet the country's long-term objectives. This invention of new taxes and placing a greater burden on fewer and fewer people, well, it clearly indicates that the only objective of the tax system must be, as much money as possible, to rake together for the state. But it's not like that. The fact that our labour taxes are very high and our tax structure is uniform, after all, in the long term means that our tax system is susceptible to crises and that it does not help the country to meet its environmental objectives, for example... (The President: "Ask! ") Do you understand the need to diversify the tax structure?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U257	I think this is part of the debate that needs to be held. It's all a matter of consideration. Exactly: what are the opportunities to impose taxation on people at work in such a way that the entire tax structure also supports the changes that we are going to have to make, or are already in the process of doing. So it will definitely be part of this comprehensive tax bat, which would in essence be very good to consider with fewer time limits than it is to answer an inquiry in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U258	Good Minister, there are no more questions for you. Raimond Kaljulaid has now requested a word during the negotiations. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U259	Thank you very much, Mr President. And thank you very much, Minister, for these answers and for this dialogue with the Riigikogu. The Minister had a question as to why we focus on cuts. However, because indeed, the government coalition agreement precludes a change in the tax system and thus also the search for any additional sources of revenue. At the same time, there is a desire to move towards fiscal balance. This means, as the Minister repeatedly said in his replies, that all members of the government are looking for austerity points in their own area, i.e. cuts, cuts, cuts and, once again, cuts. And as the Prime Minister said, very painful cuts. Alternatives are not known to be considered. It was very surprising to me that the Ministry of Finance has not even analysed the issue of property taxes, which in fact has been a very important issue in society in recent years. On what ground, however, can the Minister of Finance claim that, for example, property taxes would in any way restrict growth or undermine the ability of Estonian companies to export their products and services? There's no analysis. It is not known what this would mean in terms of public expenditure, what it would mean in terms of revenue, what the impact on the economy would be. If the Ministry of Finance hasn't done these analyses, who else could do them? To mention that the subject of property taxes has not been topical and therefore has not been dealt with, this is not true. For example, the OECD has strongly advised Estonia to consider reducing both labour taxes and consumption taxes and introducing property taxes. So, yes, it is surprising that the Ministry of Finance has not carried out any analyses and more precise forecasts on this subject. All the more so, according to § 65 of the Government Act, one of the functions of the Ministry of Finance is the planning of tax and financial policy. How can policies be envisaged if alternatives are not considered? The Minister's replies also gave the impression that significant reductions can be found in the Estonian state budget and in our fixed costs. All you have to do is commit to this goal, and then it will definitely succeed. Colleagues also gave examples here, using the latest annual report of the National Audit Office, which spoke about the future of priority public services. This was the 2020 report. Some examples of statistics on priority public services. As I referred to in my question, there is an agreement between the various parties in Estonia that the optimal size of family doctors is considered to be 1600 people. The average size of the list in Estonia is 1699 people. The average list is larger than what is considered optimal. The National Audit Office has counted that 171 competitions have taken place to find family doctors in the last few years, 2015 to 2019. In 97 out of 171, these competitions failed, and no family doctor was found. Outside Tallinn and Tartu, access to the family doctor service is difficult and in fact family doctors are also missing in Tallinn. In the meantime, I will ask the President of the sitting if I can have more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U260	Three minutes is possible, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U261	I'm asking for three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U262	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U263	Let's go, teachers. It is very difficult to find teachers with the required qualifications. The Minister talked about the fact that we should make every effort to promote growth and exports. I agree with that. We must fully support the success of our technology companies, our IT companies in particular. This is one of Estonia's great unique strengths. But we are lacking teachers, including mathematics and science, which are the physics, chemistry and biology teachers most. They just don't exist. I cannot imagine how we can be successful, sustainable, sustainable in the field of technology if we do not have highly qualified engineers, programmers and other IT specialists. It is very difficult for us to train these specialists at higher education institutions if we do not have a good level of teaching mathematics and science in schools. The average wage of teachers is 112% of the average wage in Estonia, as has been pointed out here. The goal was to reach 120%. We have not achieved this objective. More than 800 teachers have received basic teacher support since its introduction. It was introduced in 2008. /2009. at the beginning of the academic year, an amount of EUR 12783. More than ten years have passed since then, the starting grant has not increased, it is still at the same level. The Police and Border Guard Board predicts that more than 350-400 police officers will leave the service by 2030 than they will come from the National Defence Academy among the police graduates. The number of police officers on the streets is reduced by 10%. The average salary of the rescuers in 2011 was 84% of the Estonian average. In the meantime, the economy has had good times, growing times, the average pay of rescuers in comparison to the average wage has fallen: it was 84% of the average wage, now 78% of the average wage. The rescuers work several jobs. It is very difficult for them to leave the service if they are born into a small family or if they are planning to have children, because it is not possible to make ends meet with the savior's salary. To sum it up. While, according to the Minister, the main objective of the tax system is to support growth and exports, the main objective of the economy and state policy, as well as the tax system, is to raise people's well-being, people's living standards. Ensuring priority services is particularly important: health, education, rescue, security, social protection. This is the objective of the State and must be supported by the tax system. So I call on the Treasury Department to do its job, to do their analysis. Our idea of tax policy has stopped. We need to get it moving again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U264	Please, Tarmo Kruusimäe will have the floor next.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U265	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good citizens of the Republic! Happy all the leme cub movers and, of course, my dear fellow workers! The only job that feeds is eating. Consequently, my question to the Minister for Finance on tax policy was also raised. Yes, he was very good at talking about whether you now want such a huge tax credit for everyone across the field, but I would remind you that before the 2009 cuts, we had a significantly lower VAT percentage. Then everyone across the field was slammed, and nothing was wrong. If we think that not all Estonians are belly slaves, that everyone wants to slim up, chew grass and nat or whatever and that's enough, some of us are old-school people too. There must still be potatoes and meat. You don't argue about taste, you fight about taste. But, for example, Spaniards support it; they have 6% VAT on catering establishments. They feel that Spanish cuisine and cuisine are good. And in European countries everywhere, VAT is still below this tax we are imposing. I don't think that Estonians are without any sense of taste, can't respect any food culture at all, and that eating is a fourth-rate thing at all or, let's say, cultural spending time. The previous speaker spoke about the rescuers and national security. But we also know that a soldier on an empty stomach doesn't fight and the savior doesn't save. Therefore, if we respect the Estonian cuisine, if we want to have catering facilities, we must admit that these institutions are in a very difficult situation at the moment. The government has given three different messages in one month about how long they can stay open and what and where. Those who survive could have some hope. And they could also be rewarded by the government lowering VAT on catering establishments. I think it makes the people richer and everything wins. The second question I had was about banning the tastes of e-liquids. I put the same question yesterday in the Committee on Legal Affairs to Elmar Vaher. I'm really following up on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance that e-liquids should be denied tastes. In that case, selling e-liquids to adults would clearly be selling some kind of mind poison. My question was, did the police give this input that it was a dangerous mind poison? For example, when a person vibrates plum-flavored e-liquid, he is insanely addicted, he is a threat to society, to himself and to the surrounding, so it must be banned. What is our proposal? Good Minister, liberal parties could stand up for people's freedoms to choose their own pleasant color, pleasant taste, pleasant smell and pleasant size. There is no need to dictate in advance how long someone's hair is or how long a dress must be, what colour it must be, which spears could be used by women. And that also applies to tastes. The simple question is: how many of these disproportionate and completely incomprehensible bans that have come from the Ministry of Finance are linked to our fiscal policy. How much do they give us? We saw that there was no tax revenue. Only border trade and the black market have grown, and this should not be the dream of any finance minister. Keit, you can actually change and influence these two things. And I will sum up my speech again with another little line of poetry that actually concerns the most important thing that we are all slaves to our stomachs. Hando Runnel has said that love goes through his stomach, only to find the right hole. Today, caterers want to know how our finance minister understands this poem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U266	The members of the Riigikogu have no more wishes for words. The Minister of Finance would like to make a little bit of a clarification. Please, Madam Secretary of Finance!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U267	Thank you, good manager. This is not so much a clarification, but since there is an opportunity for a final word and this debate has gone much wider than the questions contained in the question, I will take this opportunity. Indeed, since several times the questioners and other speakers and questioners have also referred to the budgetary plans for the coming years, I note that we are probably now in the Ministry of Finance for the most intense month of the year. The budgetary framework for the next four years, the budgetary plan must be ready by the end of April. In doing so, the main objective of the government is that Estonia will be among the winners in the world economy in the future in the international competition where the countries are among themselves. And this also directly affects the lives of the people, the lives of the Estonian people. To put it briefly once again: we need solutions that will support economic growth and thus improve people's lives. We need these types of solutions, not new taxes. In tax policy, the tax debate must certainly not stand by the fact that the first and only or main solution is to take more money than the taxpayer's pocket. First of all, it is not a solution, it is not a way forward, and second, it is by its very nature such a lazy solution. It still seems to me that this approach is based on the assumption that, in essence, we are simply not questioning any decisions made before. We do not consider reforms necessary and we will continue inertially on exactly the path that has always been, and we expect that everything that has been done, all the decisions that have been made, will be good, and we will just keep on ticking in all the ways that have already been decided. That's not a reasonable assumption. It is clear that reforms are needed, more is needed, not less. The automation of the budget that has also been through our debate is, in fact, one example. There is a need to look for ways to reduce automation, where most of the costs have been in place very rigidly for years, for years to come. It is true that reforms may also lead to a temporary cost that the start of the reform may be related to the cost. However, if the outcome of this reform in the future is either an increase in budget revenue or cost savings, such a short-term one-off increase in deficit is justified. However, yes, only if the calculation really matches and shows that the additional deficit that will arise in the future will be covered. To conclude, perhaps all of our current budget planning is indeed to keep running, daily, small spending under control. This is to ensure, among other things, that at some point we do not have to increase the liabilities of additional loans completely over and above our heads. Such a development would mean that we, with the other hand, will stifle our future growth, and that cannot be tolerated. The general principle must be that, when there are good times, which hopefully soon will come again, we must also avoid overheating the economy from the state side, and when there are times of crisis, as we now have, we need to be able to temporarily support demand. So our longer-term objective at the moment in drawing up the budgetary strategy is to re-establish the budgetary balance, to make a green and digital shift, and if it can be done, not only to achieve balance, but to re-establish the surplus. Otherwise, the plans don't make sense. The focus we have in mind is indeed to support new growth in the economy. And, as has been said, the tax policy under discussion must support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U268	Thank you, Minister of Finance. We have exhausted the first item.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U269	We will move on to the second item: the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Reuben Kaalepi, Paul Puustusmaa, Jaak Valge, Urmas Reitelmann and Alar Laneman concerning Estonian politics in China. The word "Ruben Kaalep" is given on behalf of the heirs, if desired.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U270	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! Honourable listeners! We are now discussing an issue that is a very important matter of the value of Estonian foreign policy. This concerns Estonia's relations with the People's Republic of China. As a nation state founded on the principle of self-determination of peoples, Estonia is in a very sensitive situation whenever it is a question of following these principles at international level. And that is why on 22 February we have presented an inquiry to the Foreign Minister, which, as an important point in the discussion of foreign policy before the Riigikogu on 16 February, highlights the fact that Estonia is extremely important in its good relations with China, that Estonia recognises a Chinese policy and that there is no intention to change it. The Minister of Foreign Affairs also named Taiwan as one of the Chinese regions. We believe that this is contrary to the current external policy development plan, which sets among other things objectives the preservation of a world order based on international law, serious consequences for violations of international law and the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms. It also requires Estonia to consistently focus on violations of international law by referring to specific perpetrators, to support countries that are politically and materially victims of aggression, to stand up for the consistent application of democracy and the rule of law, to stand up for freedom of religion and belief and the protection of religious minorities in the world, to uphold the rights of indigenous peoples, including the right to self-determination of peoples and to support the preservation and development of the cultural and linguistic diversity of the world. The Beijing regime, which controls most of China's historic territory, has systematically violated human rights and fundamental freedoms, international law and the rights of indigenous peoples in consolidating and expanding its power. Examples of this include the annexation of Tibet in 1951, the ongoing suppression of peaceful resistance, the restriction of religious freedom, the imprisonment of religious leaders and the policy of renationalisation, the imprisonment of the civilian population of Uighur in concentration camps in Xinjiang, their violent treatment, the obstruction of the Uighurs' right to self-determination, which is also increasingly called at international level genocide, the obstruction of the rights of indigenous people of internal Mongolia and the suppression of peaceful resistance, the threat of military invasion by the government of the legitimate Republic of China in Taiwan and repeated military provocations, the brutal violation of international commitments undertaken in guaranteeing the rights of Hong Kong and the suppression of this region to central government. Unfortunately, the views expressed by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, especially by referring to one of the Chinese policies, allow Estonia's position to be interpreted as a statement of support for the activities of the People's Republic of China in establishing its power over indigenous peoples and also to refrain from defending the right of the indigenous peoples to self-determination. It is clear that such a step would be contrary to the objectives set out in the foreign policy development plan and would seriously call into question the value-based nature of Estonian foreign policy. We therefore, as heirs, expect the Foreign Minister to answer eight questions that I am not going to read in the face of a lack of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U271	The foreign minister Eva-Maria Liimets will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U272	[[Remote connection]] Good afternoon. I hope I'm audible and visible.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U273	Fine.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U274	Thank you. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Mr Kaalep, thank you very much for raising these questions and the issue and the problem. I'll answer your eight questions first. The promotion and protection of human rights remains the cornerstone and priority of the external action of Estonia and the European Union. We are constantly working to ensure that serious violations of human rights are not overlooked and condemned. When assessing the human rights situation in different countries, we are always based on a number of sources. In the case of the People's Republic of China, the information we receive from the Estonian embassy in Beijing is important, where the analysis of what is happening in the country of residence is carried out on a daily basis and information about all current issues is constantly transmitted. We also have access, as a Member State of the European Union, to information provided by the Union's Representation in Beijing. In addition, we have overviews of discussions in the international organisations of which Estonia is a member, such as the UN and its sub-organisations, the UN Committee for the Monitoring of International Conventions and reports by independent international institutions. Estonian diplomats with the UN and other international organisations in Geneva also meet regularly with national minority organisations and associations. Based on the diverse sources, we must say that the information available on the situation of indigenous peoples in China is a serious concern. We have reason to believe that freedom of religion and belief and the rights of minorities are being restricted. We have therefore repeatedly raised this issue and made critical statements in various formats calling for changes to the situation in China. The second question and the answer to that. Since the restoration of independence, Estonia has been guided by a Chinese policy. The diplomatic relations of the Republic of Estonia were concluded with the People's Republic of China. This means that the Republic of Estonia treats the People's Republic of China as a subject of international law. Without violating this principle, Estonia, as well as the European Union as a whole, communicates in non-political areas such as trade, investment, education and cultural cooperation, such as Taiwan. Estonia has supported Taiwan's participation in the World Health Assembly, together with other countries of the same kind, which is particularly important given the need to combat the global COVID-19 pandemic. One Chinese policy has no influence on the implementation of our foreign policy development plan. Answer to question three. In recent years, Estonia has consistently raised questions about the human rights situation in all possible formats, both in our bilateral relations with China, at European Union level and with other co-ordinate countries in international organisations. Estonia has not been left out of any critical statement on the situation in China in recent years under the UN. The statements have criticised arbitrary detentions, large-scale surveillance and other restrictions on human rights, in particular with regard to Uighurs and other minorities in Xinjiang. Hong Kong's security and legislation issues have also been raised several times. For example, in July 2019 Estonia joined the United Nations Human Rights Council in a joint letter of 21 countries on the human rights situation in Xinjiang. In June 2020, Estonia joined the 28 countries' joint statement at the UN Human Rights Council, which was about the human rights situation in Xinjiang and Hong Kong. On Xinjiang Estonia also joined the United Nations General Assembly's Third Committee in 2019 with a joint declaration by 23 countries and in 2020 with a joint declaration by 39 countries, which in addition to Xinjiang also dealt with Hong Kong. We have also spoken about China in the UN Security Council, of which Estonia is currently a non-permanent member. For example, in May 2020, Estonia raised the issue of legislation threatening Hong Kong's autonomy in conjunction with High Representative Borrell, Germany and the United Kingdom at a meeting on cooperation between the European Union and the United Nations. In May 2020, Hong Kong held a discussion during the Estonian Presidency of the UN Security Council. Estonia has joined the International Media Freedom Coalition and the International Alliance for Freedom of Religion and Persuading, which has also discussed and made statements about human rights violations in China. For example, in January 2021, 16 members of the Media Freedom Coalition, including Estonia, made a statement on restrictions on media freedom, also pointing out that the journalist Chen Jieren was a prisoner for writing about COVID-19. In November 2018, in the framework of the UN General Periodic Review of Human Rights, the so-called UPR, Estonia made a number of recommendations to China to improve the human rights situation, such as the Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR) and its Additional Protocol on the abolition of the death penalty, the Additional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and the accession to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. Estonia also called on China to ensure free access to the Internet, guarantee freedom of expression and ban the physical punishment of children. In December 2018, Estonia, together with other like - minded countries, issued a statement condemning China's massive theft of intellectual property in cyberspace. In the European Union, Estonia has supported statements on human rights in Hong Kong and has actively contributed to shaping common positions. We have worked for a long time to get the sanction regime against human rights offenders adopted by the European Union around the world. For the first time, the European Union has created a framework for targeted action against individuals, entities and bodies, including national and non-state actors responsible for serious violations of human rights worldwide, participating in, or associated with them, regardless of where they were committed. These restrictive measures provide for a travel ban on individuals and a freezing of funds both for individuals and for entities. In addition, persons and entities in the European Union shall be prohibited from making funds available directly or indirectly to designated persons, entities or bodies. The framework for targeted restrictive measures applies to acts such as genocide, crimes against humanity and other serious violations of human rights, such as torture, slavery, out-of-court executions, demonstrations, arrests and detentions. Other human rights violations may also fall within the scope of the sanctioning regime if they are comprehensive, systematic or otherwise difficult for the objectives of the common foreign and security policy as set out in the Treaty. The establishment, review and amendment of the list of sanctions shall be the responsibility of the Council acting on a proposal from a Member State or the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Thus, the new human rights sanction regime in the European Union brings additional opportunities for sanctioning human rights offenders. We believe that this instrument must be used, if necessary, against specific perpetrators of human rights violations. On the bilateral side, we have raised human rights and the situation in Hong Kong at almost all meetings with Chinese colleagues. I also stressed the need for respect for human rights in my speech at the recent summit with China and the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. It is important to know that imposing sanctions is a legal issue. The attribution of human rights violations is always subject to specific evidence and an independent international investigation is often required to collect them. Unfortunately, in two years, UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet has not given the opportunity to get to know the situation on the ground in Xinjiang, nor has the European Union received this opportunity. The visit by Xinjiang to the ambassadors of the Member States of the European Union in Beijing has not taken place on the grounds that meetings with the people wanted by the European Union are not guaranteed. Answer to Question 4. The Chinese security law enforced in Hong Kong and its arrests and the removal of elected ambassadors are contrary to the principle of "one country, two systems" and the international commitments made by China. Estonia continues to draw attention to violations of international law in international organisations, the European Union and bilaterally. Since China refused to accept the European Union Member States' demarš on Hong Kong in Beijing, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did demarš in Tallinn in the same way as other European Union Member States. Estonia prefers to continue to act with its allies on such matters. Answer to Question 5. We are based on the principle that threats of force or use of force are not acceptable and do not comply with the UN Charter. It is important for us that the actions of the Member States of the European Union and NATO's allies on these issues should be coherent. Answer to Question 6. It has always been our view that human rights are universal and that their fulfilment is not just an internal matter for any country. One Chinese policy does not exempt countries from their obligations to comply with international law and to ensure compliance with international obligations under the UN Charter and international agreements to which the People's Republic of China is a party. Estonia has consistently pointed out violations of international law and continues to do so. Answer to Question 7. Estonia has not missed any suitable opportunity to draw attention to these problems. We have consistently made joint statements with other countries that require respect for human rights, including in Xinjiang, and supported the European Union's speeches on this issue in UN sub-organisations. For example, in April 2019 the European Union called for the release of Uighur detainees in addition to other human rights defenders at the EU-China Human Rights Dialogue. Answer to Question 8. We have addressed this issue at the meeting of the International Alliance for Freedom of Religion and Persuasion, which discussed the issue of freedom of religion in Tibet. Both the Tibetan Support Group of the Riigikogu, the Estonian Institute of Buddhism and other associations and organisations have been calling for the release of political prisoners and the cessation of violence in Tibet for years. In April 2020, 32 Members of the European Parliament called for the unconditional release of the Pantchen Lama XI. In April 2019, the European Union called for the release of Tibetan activists, writers and religious figures, including Tashi Wangchuki and Lobsang Dargye, at the Human Rights Dialogue meeting with China. This was a compact overview of what Estonia is doing in its foreign policy to urge the People's Republic of China to respect human rights, given the universality of human rights. Thanks for asking me about this. I'll finish here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U275	Minister, the members of the Riigikogu would like to clarify some other matters. First, Jüri Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U276	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! I... in such a way that, as an Estonian state, we want to draw attention to the problems of China, primarily in cooperation with the allies, and we still remain at the level of demands and reproach. [[The connection's breaking up.]] I would like to ask how we have progressed in the 17 + 1 cooperation format, where there are then some countries of the European Union and China. What is the result of this cooperation format so far, and how will the Ministry of Foreign Affairs see this cooperation format in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U277	Thank you for that question. The main objective of the 2012 cooperation format was to complement bilateral relations, in particular through economic cooperation. Thus, Estonia has participated in this format and contributed to economic relations between Estonia and China through this format. For example, the last question was the conclusion of an agreement on the facilitation of export and import of agricultural products. So certain activities have taken place through this cooperation format, but Estonia has not actively participated in this format recently. Estonia also decided that the Minister of Foreign Affairs took part in the last summit instead of the Prime Minister. And this format we have kept so far, we have been involved in it for economic, economic cooperation reasons. Today, Estonia is in the same way in this format and let's see how and if we will continue at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U278	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U279	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! You have told us very loudly about how Estonia has joined all kinds of freedom of media and conscience. But please tell me, how does the 327 SE, the draft law amending the Media Services Act, which actually limits the freedom of the media and also the freedom of conscience, comply with all of this? Are you aware of this, and how does it feel when we support the freedom of the media and of the freedom of mind with one hand, and when we restrict it with the other hand?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U280	Thank you very much for this question. The freedom of the media is very good in the Republic of Estonia. Estonia is the 14th largest in the world according to the media freedom index and there are many different publications in Estonia. Media pluralism, in my opinion, is very good in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U281	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U282	Thank you, Minister. Unfortunately, I have to say that for a large part of the questions you did not answer specifically and talked about the subject by referring to all kinds of international statements to which Estonia has joined on the subject of human rights. But he did not hear of any statement that would have been initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia itself. My question is what exactly is one Chinese policy in your interpretation. After all, it is generally understood internationally that this means the right of the People's Republic of China to full control of the entire territory it requires, thus excluding any support for Taiwan's independence or the national self-determination of Tibet and Uighurs, if this could lead to independence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U283	Thank you for that question. I answered that question before. Yes, the Republic of Estonia supports one Chinese policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U284	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U285	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. First of all, thank you for the quarter hour you've allowed me to take a nap. I dreamt that the border of Estonia was going against the Chinese wall. And from that, I wondered exactly where this Chinese wall was going to start and where it was going to end. And in this respect, the issue is evolving. You spoke about freedom of religion in the context of Tibet, but you did not say anything about Estonia's attitude towards the eradication of Tibet's independence, the gradual destruction of Tibet's totally unique, unique culture in the world by the central authority of the People's Republic of China and the ethnic cleansing against Tibetans. You also did not say that the Government of the Republic of Estonia, at diplomatic level, at the level of the Heads of State, raised these issues on another level. You said that two non-Estonian Members of the European Parliament have made a statement.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U286	Mr. Helme, a question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U287	This is not the foreign policy of the Republic of Estonia. What is our attitude towards Tibet, Tibet's civilisation and intentions in bilateral relations, in bilateral relations? To raise the subject?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U288	Thank you very much for this question too. I thought, for a very long time, that I explained how Estonia has proactively raised these issues, but I am happy to repeat and bring out some nuances more strongly. Estonia condemns the serious violations of human rights, then they are in China, Tibet or some other region. The repression of the people with force is deplorable and has been raised by Estonia. When we talk about bilateral relations, the Estonian Ministry of Foreign Affairs recently called a Chinese ambassador and addressed all these issues. And it is not that Estonia raises these issues only in international organisations. They are also on the bilateral table, and that is what I said in my original speech, and I will also repeat now, answering this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U289	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U290	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good minister! I'd like to find out a little bit about how this thing really is. China is a large country and, of course, it has its own interests. And should get along with every country, even the big ones. But there are opposite signals. One of your colleagues, the Minister of Defence, was the chairman of the Taiwanese Friendship Group for a long time, but you are talking about a common Chinese policy that Taiwan is a small part of it. On the other hand, my good painter Henn Põlluaas has written about the visit to China: our delegation also had Keit Pentus-Rosimannus and the high leaders of the Chinese Communist Party said that it was great, the Reform Party! We have a cooperation agreement with you. My dear Pentus-Rosimannus went red in the face, and when we later asked how this agreement was, there was no clear answer. And now my question to you. You have a clear picture in the government of how it really is. Do the good colleagues from the Reform Party have a cooperation agreement with the Chinese Communist Party and do they also support your views on what you have said, or is it more of the Centre Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U291	Thank you very much for these questions. I have just presented the government's foreign policy positions. With regard to China's wider policy, relations with China, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will soon take the Asian strategy to the government. It will then, of course, be possible for all members of the government to express their views. As regards the possible agreement of the Reform Party with China, I would very much ask you to address this issue to the Reform Party. I owe you an answer to that question right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U292	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U293	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! We have always been proud of our succession and policies based on state values. This is very important to us; we adhere to the principle of succession in every way, both in political and legal matters. So, what about this Republic of China? Doesn't that sound like some kind of double-crossing? And in order to rule out my doubts, I will ask you about a treaty that has been concluded, ratified in the Republic of Estonia in 1938. This is an agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of China, signed by the President, as well as Prime Minister Eenpalu and Selter as Minister of Foreign Affairs. Its first article made it clear that a permanent and eternal peace and friendship agreement has been concluded between the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of China. The sixth article states that the High Contracting Parties shall conclude, as soon as possible, a trade and shipping agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U294	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U295	I ask if this agreement is in force and I ask how far it is for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to conclude this trade and shipping agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U296	Thank you very much, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, for this historic retrospect. I admit I haven't studied historical Chinese relations documents. Today, in Estonia's foreign policy, we rely on the agreements that Estonia entered into after the restoration of independence, if these agreements were to be concluded. Of course, with those countries that never recognised the occupation of the Estonian state, Estonia did not have to enter into diplomatic relations agreements either. In 1991 bilateral diplomatic relations were agreed with the People's Republic of China. And in these documents, Estonia recognises one Chinese policy. Then, of course, Estonia continued to expand the contractual base with China, which was due to the interests that Estonia or China had at the moment. I referred here earlier to the fact that, for example, there is currently an agreement to facilitate the export and import of agricultural products. Such agreements have been concluded by Estonia with China according to the commercial interests of one or the other party or the interests of another.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U297	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out once again that we have one minute to ask the question. Let's try to stick to it! We all want to move forward today and there are many questions. Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U298	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Minister for Foreign Affairs, you have read out a series of measures that Estonia has joined or has done. The result is zero, isn't it? China is building the world's largest navy, the attack army is increasingly aggressive with all other countries, especially in the neighbourhood. There are no human rights, Tibet is still occupied. And the Chinese Communist Party has established such a unique high-tech one party with a very strong dictatorship. And we are also talking about China's objectives of creating a completely new world order based on China's relations with countries directly, not through international organisations, not through the European Union, not by respecting international rights. Please tell me whether you have observed the activation of Chinese diplomacy towards Estonia in recent years, so it goes past the general positions of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U299	Thank you very much. It is very important for Estonia to expand its value area, where the protection of human rights and the appreciation of democratic principles are at the forefront. And Estonia is working to expand such a value space. Estonia has also chosen organisations such as the European Union and NATO, which were created to defend these values, and Estonia is a member of them. In this context, of course, Estonia is concerned that at the same time authoritarian states are increasing their influence globally. And it can certainly be said that China has also increased its influence globally in recent years. If we go into more detail, we can say that cyber security, for example, is one of the specific areas in which we have seen that Estonia is also concerned by cyber attacks. Estonia, for example, has decided that we must ensure that our 5G infrastructure is as secure as possible. Estonia has worked with its allies in this area, concluded a memorandum with the United States to ensure that in future our infrastructure will be protected from possible attacks by authoritarian states and in the context of data protection. This is the kind of continuous activity that the Estonian foreign and security policy authorities are engaged in all the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U300	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U301	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I'll help you out. There is no deeper basis for truth in the agreement between the Estonian Reform Party and the Chinese Communist Party than what the EKRE forums occasionally encounter: how vaccines create a 5G connection and masks have worms. But if there's a question to follow here, I'll ask. Would you be surprised that there is a party in the Estonian country that speaks untruely under its name?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U302	Thank you very much for this information. It's good to know what our broader contractual base with China is. For me, it is certainly very important that people still choose to tell the truth first and foremost. It is difficult to comment more on your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U303	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U304	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, Lithuania has recently taken very important steps in China's relations, which have received international attention. He has pulled himself out of the 17+1 format and developed relations with Taiwan. Can't the Baltic States work together to develop their Chinese relations? And have you and your Lithuanian colleagues discussed these steps? Perhaps it is time to coordinate relations between all three Baltic states, especially towards Taiwan.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U305	Honourable member of the Riigikogu! Thank you very much for these questions. Estonia sees relations with China primarily as bilateral relations. Other cooperation formats have complemented bilateral relations. Estonia's strong preference would, of course, be to have a cooperation format between China + 27, i.e. China and the European Union, not the format you referred to, i.e. 1+17, in which only some of the Member States of the European Union have participated, among them Estonia. Estonia is working to find the best cooperation formats for relations with China, which take into account the wider interests of Estonia's foreign and security policy. And we will certainly work closely together and coordinate our activities with Latvia, Lithuania and other allies and co-ordinated countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U306	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U307	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! Does Estonia recognise the rights of indigenous peoples and the right to national self-determination as a principle in general?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U308	Thank you for this very important question. For Estonia, the protection of the rights of indigenous peoples is a very important area and Estonia has supported the rights of indigenous peoples in foreign policy since the late 1990s. This was one of the first human rights protection funds to which Estonia began to make financial contributions in order to defend the rights of indigenous peoples. However, there are places where the right to self-determination of indigenous peoples is not unambiguously compatible with national sovereignty and territorial integrity. In these places, it is certainly very difficult how one or the other issue can be resolved. However, as I have said many times today, human rights are universal, so regardless of territoriality, every country must ensure the protection of human rights in its own country, regardless of which minorities they are, they are indigenous peoples or otherwise minorities. Human rights must be guaranteed to all people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U309	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U310	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I have a brief question: what is Estonia's position in the border conflict between China and India?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U311	Sorry, I didn't hear the question. Can this be repeated?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U312	I'll ask you again, then. Can Helle-Moonika Helme hear us? Please, Helle-Moonika Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U313	Can you hear me? Can't you hear me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U314	Yeah, we copy.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U315	Very good! I had a brief question. What is Estonia's position in the border conflict between China and India?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U316	In such matters, it is very important that neighbouring countries resolve the border problem through dialogue. This issue certainly belongs to the area in which countries, in bilateral cooperation, have to resolve the issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U317	Good Minister, there are no more questions for you. Thank you! We're going to the negotiations. Ruuben Kaalep first, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U318	Thank you. Well, I have to congratulate the Minister for trying to answer questions, but unfortunately I also have to admit that the answers were largely disappointing. And then let's take it one by one in a row. To the first question, concerning information from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the situation in China, we received a positive answer that, yes, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is aware that the situation with freedom of religion and belief and the rights of indigenous peoples is very difficult, we have raised this issue, making critical statements. All right. In response to the question of how one Chinese policy affects the activities of the Estonian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the implementation of the foreign policy development plan, we received that one Chinese policy does not affect the implementation of the foreign policy development plan. We're about to get to the details. The third question, concerning the steps taken by Estonia to draw attention to violations of international law, also referring to specific perpetrators, was a long list of international statements, including UN statements, raising the issue of Hong Kong, and very many examples of statements to which Estonia has joined. With regard to the specific perpetrators of human rights violations, there were indeed sanctions and travel bans for people who are directly involved in human rights violations. Unfortunately, all this talk of sanctions went very smoothly on issues relating to human rights violations, but the issue itself specifically concerned violations of international law, as well as violations of the rights of the peoples to self-determination. When we look at the violations that China has committed at the level of its leadership, we did not actually hear anything about the specific perpetrators who sit on the leadership of the Chinese Communist Party. The fourth question concerned the serious consequences of the external policy development plan. The only serious consequence of this response was that Estonia continues to draw attention to this issue. The fifth question, again, was quite specific and concerned political and material support for Chinese victims such as Taiwan and Tibet. The answer to this was simply that the threat of force is not acceptable and the actions of the allies must be united, which means that once again no political and material support opportunities were identified from Estonia to these countries, although we should do so on the basis of the development plan. The sixth question concerned the rights of indigenous peoples, and this term was, unfortunately, consistently sought to be avoided by the Minister, talking about human rights that are universal. He claimed that one Chinese policy would not exempt us from following it. On the seventh question, we again learned that Estonia has not missed any opportunity to join joint statements at international level. But we did not hear of any statement that would have been initiated by Estonia itself or at the initiative of the Government of the Republic. Answering the eighth question, it was said that the release of political prisoners at the Alliance of Freedoms of Religion and Persuasion was required, and all forms of statements of support for the release of the panchen Lama were mentioned. It is, of course, very positive that the Minister of Foreign Affairs considers the Tibetan Support Group to be the official representative of the Republic of Estonia in the Riigikogu, but unfortunately we did not hear the statements and positions of the government. Is it possible to get more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U319	It's possible. Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U320	The most absurd moment arose in the round of supplementary questions, where I asked for clarification, which for Estonia still means one Chinese policy, which can be understood in very many ways, especially in this situation where we are also talking about the sovereignty and territorial integrity of countries. The Minister, however, confirmed that the rights of indigenous peoples and the right to self-determination are also important for Estonia. Unfortunately, the right to self-determination can only have substance if some people are so totally suppressed that by continuing in the composition of this country, a larger empire, they have no chance of exercising their self-determination, and then the right to self-determination provides that this nation has the right to declare independence and obtain its own state. And there is an obvious contradiction with one Chinese policy. In essence, we cannot talk at the same time about the right of indigenous peoples and one Chinese policy, because, in a situation where China is secretly committing genocide, it is not possible to support or support the continued existence of these peoples in the People's Republic of China under the Beijing regime. The agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of China was also published in 1938, which is in this sense a very interesting topic of state law that it concerns Estonia's relations with Taiwan. And since this agreement has not been repealed by Estonia for its part, in a situation where we, as a country, are clearly of the opinion that, for example, the Tartu Peace Treaty is a valid treaty, we must also consider this 1938 Treaty to be valid. Therefore, if Estonia has diplomatic relations in legal terms with both China at the same time, we cannot again talk about one Chinese policy. In summary, it should be said that it is time for the Government of the Republic to decide whether, as a higher principle, we will still support the right of people to self-determination and the rights of indigenous peoples, or whether we will support one Chinese policy. I am of the opinion that it is time to stop talking about one Chinese policy, to replace it with the principle of 'China's bad in China, China's money we do not want'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U321	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U322	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much for answering your questions. Answering questions also unexpectedly resulted in side effects. In fact, we learned that we have delegates who are obviously suffering from Herod's disease and are haunted by worms even in masks. Thank you also for this by-product in answering these questions. However, what I would like to say now to conclude your answers is that there is no need for any knowledge of rocket science to realise that the Republic of Estonia has no independent policy towards the People's Republic of China. There is no independent policy to look at relations with the People's Republic of China in a broader context. What do I mean? I mean, in a broader context, that our relations are still at somewhere in the best case at the 2000 level. We are denied the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and not just on the Chinese issue as a whole, to realise that the post-Cold War era is over. The post-cold war era is over! We're in a multipolar world. The West Block is weak. The United States is in the weakest state of the post-WWII period. The European Union is divided, the European Union is on the economic decline. At the same time, a very powerful and frightening bloc is emerging east of us, consisting of Russia, China and Iran. We can still find the little puddles here and there, but these are the three bearing beams. And these three countries and this bloc are already largely dictating the agenda of international policies and international conflicts. This is something our Ministry of Foreign Affairs is numbly overlooking, still talking about the European Union and NATO. The European Union and NATO are great! But the European Union and NATO, as I said, are no longer in their glory form. The United States is no longer in its glory form and, as a result, we must also re-evaluate the situation in our relations with other countries, including China. What do I mean by that? By this I mean that we have a choice whether we are contributing to the United States, to the security guarantees offered by the United States, or we need to think about how to ensure our security even in a situation where the United States' focus and security interests are shifting to the Pacific. The United States' interest and capacity in the European space to ensure the security of its small allies is significantly reduced. These are questions that we do not dare ask, and I can already imagine people with Herod's disease screaming again, that Helme is like that, and Helme is like that. But Helme thinks polyphonically. Helme doesn't think of stampides, Helme is not in the grip of compulsion, Helme thinks creatively and openly and openly. And that is the kind of thinking that is needed in our foreign policy. But we do not see that, and we have convincingly confirmed that now. Because, Minister of Foreign Affairs, we have no doubt for a moment that you have read us the clerks of officials. These were officials' talks, and these officials' talks very clearly indicate the brain-dead state we have in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I use brutal expressions, but I have said before in the Chamber of Riigikogu that there is a need for shock therapy in order for us to do something different from our russification and self-preserving fear, to do something wrong, to do something wrong within the framework of some context, to wake up. And China is just that. I personally have...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U323	Mart, do you need more time? We'll give you three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U324	... a place of concern for Tibet. 40 years ago, East Tibet, Amdo region, was inhabited by Tibetans. Today there are remains of Tibetans in the Amdo area, there has been practically ethnic cleansing. Ethnic cleansing has also taken place in Inner Mongolia. Internal Mongolia is currently being transferred to full Chinese administration and Chinese education. There is nothing to be said about this, because our dear allies have not touched on this issue; the internal Mongolian issue is practically not being touched on; it is like an internal Chinese matter. However, we are going to touch on the East Turkestan issue, the Uighurs, and we are going to do the right thing. But we touch it because we dare touch it. Because this, like the Hong Kong issue, is safe for us behind our big friends. Tibet is not safe and Inner Mongolia is not safe. But besides these nations, there are dozens of minorities in China who die quietly, who are quietly killed. We are not talking about human rights in these cases; we are not talking about self-determination in them; we are not talking about their own national education, about their own language culture. But actually, we should talk, because if we stay in the Western security room, and I'm convinced that we're gonna stay there, it's actually in our interest to point out these weaknesses and the weak spots that are used in this new global confrontation to attack the other side, to damage, to wage a propaganda war, whatever words we use. So, dear Minister of Foreign Affairs! You know how I wake up in the morning? I'm gonna roll over the edge of the bed and fall on the floor. That's what's about to blow your head off. I also suggest you roll over the bed edge in the mornings and fall on the floor and start thinking creatively! And don't listen to those fucked-up bureaucrats who make you talk points. I know you've outgrown yourself, and it's especially difficult for you to take my advice. But don't listen to them! Don't listen to them, you're a political leader. You must develop our new policy both east and west. I wish you the strength to do so, and I am absolutely convinced that your long-standing experience as a diplomat gives you the prerequisites. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U325	Thank you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U326	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good coworkers! Good people who are watching us over the Internet! This is what we have in real life: our employees, our ministers, are talking about one thing, but we as employers and when representatives of the people live their lives here. And I am honoured to read a document that I myself signed as chairman of the Hong Kong Support Group of the Riigikogu. The influence of the People's Republic of China threatens academic freedoms and freedom of the press. Public address to the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic, the governing bodies of Estonian universities, independent research institutions, journalism publications and all scientists, academics, journalists, cultural people and politicians working in Estonia. The increasing and expanding influence of the People's Republic of China on a global scale, targeting both academic studies in China and the free press in China, has become obvious and has received widespread media responses and monitoring reports. The authorities of the People's Republic of China have targeted investigators, journalists and institutions that are considered hostile to China. In particular, this concerns sensitive issues for China, such as some assessments of genocide-related repressions in Tibet and East Turkestan, restrictions on religious freedom throughout the country, disregarding the rule of law in Hong Kong and so on. This involves monitoring and tracking researchers and journalists, direct intimidation, sanctions, expulsion from China and the dissemination of visa languages, false information, as well as lure and bribery. Let us draw attention to some recent incidents that have led to public discussion: sanctions against ten politicians and investigators in the European Union in the People's Republic of China and four institutions which include a ban on entry into the People's Republic of China, including Hong Kong and Macau, and a ban on business, which also extends to persons and companies associated with them. Secondly, the pursuit and obstruction of journalists working in China and the expulsion from the country. During the last year, at least 18 foreign journalists have been found to be expelled from China. Thirdly, a recent commitment at the University of Oxford in the United Kingdom to provide students with their research work on Chinese research anonymously in order to protect students from Hong Kong, in particular, from possible repression by the authorities of the People's Republic of China, which gives them the opportunity of the so-called Hong Kong National Security Act established last year. On the basis of the above, we consider that Estonia cannot and must not remain in a passive and predictable position regarding the increasing pressure and influence of the People's Republic of China, as it is small countries that are most vulnerable to such influence. Estonia must establish and ensure with national policies (in cooperation with the European Union and other countries) the ability to monitor the influence of the People's Republic of China on an ongoing basis and, if necessary, to implement rapid countermeasures, to protect the security of its citizens as well as the students of foreigners studying and working here, especially China, Hong Kong and Macau, and to guarantee academic freedoms for all in the field of Chinese research. To this end, we call for: all Estonian students, researchers and lecturers as well as the leaders of universities and research institutions conduct and organise scientific research and academic discussions on Chinese topics freely, without censorship and self-censorship, and without allowing the authorities of the People's Republic of China to influence research in any public or hidden way in a direction that could tilt the results of the investigation and, more broadly, limit academic freedoms; all Estonian journalists and media publications be attentive and responsive to official and informal attempts by the People's Republic of China and demand and ensure access to all necessary sources of information concerning China; The Government of the Republic will invest significantly more and more intensively in Chinese research to create a better and more comprehensive capacity to understand China and disseminate objective information related to China, including strengthening cooperation between government agencies and researchers; The Riigikogu, in cooperation with the Government of the Republic, universities, research institutions, think tanks, experts, will develop a comprehensive and up-to-date Chinese policy that will provide a legal framework for responding quickly and effectively to Chinese influence...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U327	Would the performer like an extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U328	... carried out by the latter by means of digital means, economic activities and academic cooperation, as well as intelligence and lobbying activities of Chinese citizens and other public and non-state open and hidden activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U329	Thank you. Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U330	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! As both a state and a society, Estonia must give priority to Estonia's security interests in any cooperation projects with China. It is no secret that China's main objective of long-term influence in a foreign country is to improve China's image. The introduction of new technologies will help China to further strengthen its position in the world, which is why we need to take extreme vigilance into any information, either in Chinese intelligence activities or in Beijing's influence. It is particularly important for a small country like Estonia that the European Union's policy towards China is coherent. As a country, we need to be cautious about the influence of the People's Republic of China on academic Chinese research, as well as the influence of free press in China. The Chinese propaganda industry has started using Western information channels to spread its narrative. As a society, academic institutions, as well as the Estonian press, can help the country to maintain the discussion, paying attention to China's attempts at influence. As a country, we must seek a united approach from the European Union to China, and it is also important to seek the support of the United States, our biggest ally. We must be prepared to address these issues thoroughly in society and to make sure that Estonian policy-makers have a clear understanding of China's activities and role in the international arena. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U331	Thank you. There are no further requests to speak. It is still possible for the Minister to speak if he wishes, but he has not signalled it to us. We have therefore closed item 2.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U332	Let's keep going. The next item is also an inquiry: the inquiry into democracy and respect for the rule of law in the European Union submitted on 15 March 2021 by the members of the Riigikogu, Ruuben Kaalepi, Kalle Grünthal, Mart Helme, Helle-Moonika Helme, Leo Kunnas and Anti Polandmets. The representative of the heirs in the Riigikogu is Reuben Kaalep. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U333	Dear Riigikogu! We will continue again on a similar subject regarding our attitude towards the self-determination of peoples and issues of indigenous peoples. In our inquiry on 15 March, we will reiterate the foreign policy development plan endorsed by the Government of the Republic on 9 July 2020, which requires Estonia to stand up for the consistent implementation of democracy and the rule of law, to protect opinion and freedom of expression, to stand up for freedom of religion and belief and to defend the rights of indigenous peoples. The development plan also directs Estonia to participate in shaping the future of a strong European Union, based on clearly defined national interests, and to give priority to the development of the European Union within the framework of the Treaties, involving as many Member States as possible, to strengthen the unified functioning of the European Union and to increase its influence in international relations, and to help shape and implement the European Union's common foreign, defence, security, trade and environmental policies. On 8 March 2021, the European Parliament decided to remove the immunity of three Members in favour of the independence of Catalonia. Taking the ambassador's immunity will enable Belgium to extradite Catalan independence to Spain, which wishes to prosecute them. The trial of Catalan independence is clearly politically motivated and is the result of their support for the separation of Catalonia from Spain. The European Parliament's support for such political persecution puts deep doubt on the respect of democracy and the rule of law by the European Union and on the rights of freedom of opinion, expression and belief and indigenous peoples in the European Union. We therefore ask the Foreign Minister to answer the following questions: First of all, "How does Estonia assess the political trials in Spain and the political persecution of Catalan independence? " Secondly, how does Estonia intend to react to the question of democracy and the rule of law at European Union level? Third: How does Estonia intend to react to possible violations of the European Union's treaties? " Fourth: How does the independence of Estonia stand for the freedom of opinion, expression and conviction of Carles Puigdemont, Anton Comin and Clara Ponsat, MEPs? "And finally fifth: "What measures does Estonia take for the rights of indigenous peoples, including the right to self-determination in Catalonia?" Indeed, I very much hope that we will have more substantive answers to this question than to the previous one, so that they do not contain contradictions between Estonian principles on the one hand and the rights of indigenous peoples on the other, and we will have confirmation of our faith and hope that the rights of indigenous peoples will be the number one priority for Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U334	Thank you. The answer is now the Foreign Minister Eva-Maria Liimets. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U335	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, honourable Members of the Riigikogu, for these questions. We are pleased to continue this debate and to respond to the five questions that we have just heard. The Kingdom of Spain is an important partner for the Republic of Estonia in the European Union and a close ally in NATO. The bilateral relations between Estonia and Spain are strong and long-term, and on 8 March we celebrated the 100th anniversary of diplomatic relations. Spain is a democratic rule of law, so there is no doubt that its internal political disputes will be resolved democratically in accordance with existing legislation and the Spanish Constitution. Estonia supports the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Spain. Catalonia is an autonomous region of a democratic state and all processes for seeking greater autonomy must be carried out democratically and in compliance with Spanish law, in compliance with the rule of law, and in accordance with the Spanish constitutional process. The removal of the immunity of Members of the European Parliament, Carles Puigdemont, Anton Comin and Clara Ponsat, was a decision taken by the European Parliament during the democratic voting process, which was also in line with the assessment made by the European Parliament's Committee on Legal Affairs. The Member States of the European Union and the other institutions of the European Union have no competence to intervene in the European Parliament's decision-making process. In accordance with the Treaties on European Union, the European Commission controls the enforcement of European Union law, including the Treaties, by the Member States. The Treaties of the European Union provide for appropriate procedures for this purpose. The right of people to self-determination is a very important principle of international law. The main content of the right to self-determination is the right of a national minority to pursue its own political, economic, social and cultural objectives without separation. Protecting the rights of the indigenous peoples of the world is a matter close to the heart and an important priority for Estonia in our human rights policy. This has been the case since the late 1990s, as I have just referred to in the previous question. Estonia participated in a group of countries that developed and presented the UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples in 2007. Estonian experts have repeatedly been members of the Permanent Forum of Indigenous Peoples; they still are. For example, Sven-Erik Soosaar is currently a member. We have consistently supported the Forum of Indigenous Peoples and the United Nations Fund for Indigenous Peoples. With the active impetus and support of Estonia, the European Union has included the rights of indigenous peoples as its priority in the UN Human Rights Forums. Estonia has over a century of expertise based on research and direct contacts about the life and situation of Finno-Ugric indigenous peoples in the Russian Federation. At international level, we have committed and consistently raised the issue of the vulnerability of these nations, the suppression of economic, social and cultural development. These were examples that the rights of indigenous peoples are on the table as a very important topic for Estonia, it has been part of Estonia's foreign policy for a long time and it will continue. The situation of the Catalans cannot be compared to the fate of the Finno-Ugric small people today. The Catalans have extensive autonomy, their cultural, educational, social and economic interests are self-targeted and their rights are protected by European values-based agreements laws. At the end of last week, the Spanish Minister of Foreign Affairs visited Estonia. In his interviews with the Estonian public, he also highlighted very clearly the fundamentals of the Catalonia Troubles and described how the Spanish Government sees this issue. These articles may be of interest to the members of the Riigikogu who are seriously interested in the Catalan question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U336	Thank you. There are also questions for the Minister. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U337	Thank you. Well, we finally heard about your interpretation of the self-determination of the nations. This, according to you, is the right to autonomy without separation, to exercise that autonomy within the country. Listen, do you really consider the fundamentals of the creation of the Republic of Estonia, the Estonian manifesto of independence, which very clearly refers to the right of the peoples to self-determination as a supreme principle on the basis of which Estonia is separated from the Russian Empire at all, in your opinion, is this all trivial? Should Estonia be a part of the Russian Empire again, as the right of the peoples to self-determination, in your opinion, does not include the right to independence?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U338	Thank you very much, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, for this question. First of all, as regards the independence of the Republic of Estonia, I am of course firmly convinced that the Estonian people had the right to independence and to defend the independence of the independent Estonian state is a sacred duty of every member of the Estonian government. As far as the Catalan question is concerned, I said very clearly that the opportunities that the Catalan people have must be carried out in accordance with Spanish law, according to Spanish law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U339	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U340	[[Remote connection]] Mr. President! Minister, thank you very much. I'm so sorry, I'm sorry, but this is the story we were told in the Soviet Union. I have been to the Catalonia local parliament and government building and I have seen that these are very nice medieval buildings. I know they've had a kingdom in their time, and they're very proud of it. But if we replace here the words that you said to them, their self-realization, national self-realization must be carried out within the framework of the current legal space, then exactly the same thing the Soviet Union told us. Since you have your own republic within the framework of the Soviet Union's legal space, you have your own language education, you have a university, you have your own parliament, you have a Supreme Council, you have a municipality to exercise your independence according to the legal space definitions that exist in this large Soviet Union. And now you're telling us the same thing about Catalonia. Isn't it lethally hypocritical?! Frankly, I don't want to offend anyone in any way. It's just disgusting.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U341	Thank you. It makes me a little reluctant to draw these parallels with the Soviet Union, because in the case of Spain, we are talking about a democratic country. In the case of the Soviet Union, we talked about dictatorship. In this context, these parallels cannot be drawn. And I would like to point out, however, that when I described the situation in Spain, I referred to the existence of constitutional mechanisms and, according to them, this right of self-determination of the people should be exercised.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U342	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U343	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President-in-Office, and a good minister. I am pleased that you called Spain a democratic state. I am actually asking, in the light of this, whether it is not hypocritical that we are reacting forcefully, resolutely to what is happening in Belarus and Russia, which is condemned, because there has been violence against the specific structures of peaceful citizens. But if the same is happening in the middle of Europe, in the European Union, in a democratic country in Spain, as you have just said, when there is a dispersal of demonstrators, as was the case in Catalonia, or in the middle of Europe, it is as if everything is okay. Isn't that a little hypocritical?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U344	Thank you for these questions. I would like to return to the universality of human rights. Freedom of expression is a form of human rights and, of course, every country has a duty to respect these rights. And when peaceful demonstrations take place, of course, they are not allowed to be suppressed by force. In my report, I have not pointed out anywhere that the disbanding of demonstrations by force has in no way been approved.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U345	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U346	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! The independence movement in Catalonia has been completely peaceful, unlike, for example, the Basks movement. However, one of the leaders of the independence movement, Mr Cuixart, then vice president of the Autonomous Community of Catalonia, and a whole group of other members of the administration were simply imprisoned for peacefully trying to achieve Catalonia's independence. There is no definition for them other than political prisoners. And it was done under the colonial law of 1821 that could not prevent the Spanish Empire from breaking down. Can we really call it the rule of law or the rule of law?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U347	Thank you. In detail, I cannot comment on these detentions, but as far as compliance with the rule of law in the European Union is concerned, a format has now been introduced in the European Union, in which Member States will gradually introduce their own domestic situation, respect for the rule of law. Soon, when this debate reaches Spain, it will certainly be clear what criticism is being made of them. Estonia, for example, presented itself in the second half of last year and this was a very interesting debate. Estonia was able to introduce how Estonia adheres to the rule of law. So in this context, the European Union has established formats for possible violations of the rule of law in one Member State or another.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U348	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U349	[[Remote connection]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U350	Hello!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U351	Dear Minister, The situation is, of course, very interesting and creates certain parallels and, in some respects, concerns. Spain is a very important ally to us, and it seems that, by valuing the allied relationship, we are prepared to turn a blind eye to the fate of the Catalans. Apart from all such ekvilibristics, all the terms, and being a democratic rule of law, how does it seem in practical terms to you whether in practice all the freedoms and rights, including the right to self-determination, are guaranteed to the Catalans?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U352	Yes, in this respect, it is true that in a democratic country, minorities are guaranteed all rights, including human rights, just as different ethnic groups in Estonia are guaranteed the same rights, including socio-economic rights. And so are the Catalans. I can, of course, rely on this information that is publicly available. But apparently only 35 to 37% of the Catalans who spoke along in the last elections in Catalonia would want to become independent. So if we are discussing here today whether the right to self-determination is guaranteed there or not, it seems to me at least that this is a part of the request of the Catalans. However, there are catalans in Catalonia that may not be interested in independence and total self-determination. So in this context, as we are talking about a democratic country in the case of Spain, I believe that it is appropriate to trust these voting results and this information.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U353	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U354	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I listen here and I think. When we talk about democracy and the rule of law and an independent country, how can we view or comment on the European Union's attitude towards, for example, Hungary and Poland? How would you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U355	Thank you. For some time, the issue of the rule of law and its approach have been of concern to the European Union, both in Hungary and in Poland. These are 'G7' discussions and it calls for situations to differ in Poland and Hungary and for these two countries not to be taken exactly the same way. However, the situation in these countries is being discussed in Europe and both countries are being called upon to pay more attention to the rule of law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U356	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U357	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! As far as Poland is concerned, I have one good example for you. On judicial reforms in Poland, the father of our constitution said that the Polish judicial reforms were nothing more than what Estonia did in the 90s, and then no one was interested in it. So I would say that I have a great request to get into the subject so that we do not harm our very important ally, our NATO allies, and so do Hungary. Have you personally deepened the Polish judicial reform? And if it isn't, my suggestion is to do it and see if it's any different from what we've done.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U358	Thank you very much for these suggestions, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. I'm sure I'll look deeper into them. I very much agree that Poland is an extremely important ally for Estonia, a cooperation partner in NATO, defence cooperation, cyber security cooperation and many other areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U359	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U360	[[Remote connection]] President-in-Office of the Council. Good minister! If we look at Catalonia and listen to you say that there are 34% of those who want independence, and the rest do not want it, if we take a comparison, take events to Ukraine, for example, Donetsk or Crimea, then how do we view the percentage at all, if there are occupied territories or territories that are, how do we say, populated with a different nation? So are we saying that this is all legal?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U361	Thank you very much for these questions, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. I would like to come back to the fact that we are talking about the democratic rule of law in the context of Spain, and it is therefore appropriate to consider the figures of those people who have taken part in the referendum as reliable. They were just expressing the will of the people who were there. When we talk about occupied territories and the situation in Crimea, they are in no way comparable. Certainly, the comparable votes that have been organised and carried out under the conditions of occupation, in a state of compulsion, in a situation where we do not have enough information on actual and reliable voting data.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U362	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U363	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good minister! We have already spoken here before that the Riigikogu can think of one government of another in this Chamber, and now I come to this third institution, the President of the Republic. All that talk you had was a beautiful story you said here about the situation in Catalonia. But recently, the President of the Republic made a one-day visit to Spain, met with the King, the Prime Minister and other leaders. Do you have any information that the President of the Republic, who represents the Republic of Estonia in international communication, expressed similar views during his last visit to Spain?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U364	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, for these questions. Estonia's foreign policy is uniform and generally Estonian representatives; the representatives of the Estonian state express similar, similar views on Estonia's foreign policy issues. As regards the visit of the President of the Republic to Spain that you have referred to, I cannot say, unfortunately, whether these questions were on the agenda. I therefore also have no information on the position of the President of the Republic in a possible debate or the answer to a possible question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U365	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U366	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I understand that the answers are quite identical to those of you in the compound sentences, rather full of pulpit, and there is no clear answer. But now I'm asking you what would still be the broader message. Could this message be what we have developed in Estonia, that if you participate in democratic elections, do not publicly say your choice, but say that it was me and my conscience at the ballot box? Is this the right and politically correct approach so that people do not have problems afterwards?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U367	Honourable member of the Riigikogu! Thank you very much for these questions. Indeed, at elections, each person has the right to vote according to his or her preference. Whether that person wants to do so in public or in secret, it is up to each individual. In order to generally speculate on what the results of the elections could be, research companies are also conducting confidence polls in democratic countries. This is once again the choice: a person can inform the surveyer of his or her choice in the vote or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U368	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U369	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister. Here you first answered Moonika Helme that you have not approved what is happening in Catalonia. But I have a question because in the European Parliament, all Estonian ambassadors, with the exception of Jaak Madison, voted to remove the integrity of the Catalan ambassadors. How do you comment on that? What are we now at last: are we the European Union or are we not the European Union? Please state clearly and specifically.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U370	There is nothing to add to this question. As regards the possible votes of Members of the European Parliament, this is the choice of Members of the European Parliament who vote in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U371	Peter Ernitsa has a procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U372	Good manager! I have a procedural question. We have problems with e-mails in this country. But my question is, if we have a difficult speech by Mrs. Foreign Minister, I would like to know if this connection is such between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Riigikogu, or if the Minister of Foreign Affairs is somewhere in the remote forest corner that the connection is very poor.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U373	Yeah, it's been messing with our own system. But Mrs. Foreign Minister, as I understand it, is not at all in Estonia. So what about the e-mails on his side, I can't comment on that. But we are still trying to do our own questioning, because it has been possible to understand most of it. Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U374	Thank you. Madam Minister of Foreign Affairs! You have pointed out here on several occasions that some countries and cases are not comparable. I'd say all things are comparable. In fact, in history and political science, there is even such a thing as a comparative method, but the other thing is whether these cases and countries are similar. These are two different things: comparability and similarity. But my question is actually this. You noted on several occasions that Spain is a democratic country, but somehow it turned out from what you said that perhaps Poland and Hungary are not quite democratic. You see, analysts and political scientists, political scientists rely on different databases or measuring systems to determine democracy. On what basis, for example, do you say that Spain is more democratic than Poland or Hungary?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U375	Thank you very much. I hope I can hear the members of the Riigikogu well. I hear your questions very well, and indeed, I am not in Estonia, I am on my way to Ukraine. In answer to the question of democratic countries, the countries belonging to the European Union are democratic countries. I referred to the fact that in Hungary and Poland there are certain issues which have been discussed between the members of the European Union... whether the legal developments that have been carried out in one country or another in recent years comply with the rule of law. [[The connection's breaking up.]] These discussions in the European Union under Article 7 go on for several years, it is... factual, but it does not mean that these two countries are not at all... countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U376	Thank you. There are no further questions for the Minister, so we can go to the negotiations. First, I give the floor to Reuben Kaalep.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U377	Honourable Riigikogu! To be honest, it was a little frustrating to hear the answers to both of these questions. Now let's get this last one over with. What did we hear? First of all, that Spain is a democratic rule of law, while Hungary and Poland maybe are, perhaps not. And while there are political prisoners in Spain and there is a clear persecution of the peaceful independence movement, it is a democratic rule of law and we have no right to criticise it. The whole process of independence, if one nation wants to be freed from the power of another country, must, in any case, be governed by Spanish law. We support territorial integrity. To be honest, how many nations have won their independence under the law of the country in which they have become free? They said that there is no political persecution in Spain, there is no repression of the independence movement. And then we finally got an answer to an important question that hindered the understanding of the Minister's replies to the previous question. It turned out that the Minister felt that the right to self-determination would apply to the nations only as long as there was no desire to separate from another country and declare independence. The right to self-determination applies only domestically and it determines what cultural autonomy this people can have. This also explains why, in the Minister's view, one Chinese policy does not prevent us from standing up for the rights of indigenous peoples. At the same time, I am obviously not mistaken when I say that the majority of experts in international law who have dealt with the rights of indigenous peoples are of the opinion that, in a situation where one nation is democratically expressing the view that it is necessary to declare independence, for example because of forced repression, because of the state's policy, the right to self-determination includes any right to independence. The question arose whether the Minister considered the Catalans to be indigenous people at all, whether they were subject to the same principles of the Convention on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples to which Estonia has joined. And when the question came up, the comparison between the Soviet Union and the present Spain, because these answers and arguments were indeed very similar: we heard that, since Spain is a democratic rule of law, one nation has no right to independence when it is part of it. Only in the case of a non-democratic country is the right to declare independence. At the same time, this contradicts the answers to the previous inquiry. China is obviously not a democratic rule of law, but Uighurs, Tibetans, even Taiwan, do not have the right to independence. In fact, the desire to talk only about human rights through all the answers of the Minister sounded comprehensive and final, because it is a suitable subject for liberal globalist ideology, while the rights of indigenous peoples are something quite different. And when all of this is summed up, as I said when I asked the Minister: the fundamental foundation of the Estonian state, to which Estonia has been created as an independent state, is the permanent right to self-determination of the peoples, as the Manifest for the Peoples of Estonia says in 1918... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U378	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U379	This fundamental foundation, to which the Republic of Estonia has been created, obliges us to be sympathetic in our foreign policy through the ages, to encourage those nations who have not had this happiness and the opportunity to fight their independence through the storms of history. And it has also been a feature of Estonian culture, of Estonian national consciousness through decades, of our cultural figures, our spirit elite, to be concerned about such issues on a global level. Take the example of Linnart Mäll, a great man, a spirit giant, who, among other things, was a great promoter of Asian culture in Estonia and the leader of the issues of the rights of indigenous peoples there in the late 1980s, initiated the creation of the Unrepresented Nations. The aim was precisely to give a voice and a say at international level to those small people who have been suppressed by the great powers who have not had the opportunity to exercise their national self-determination. They must also have the opportunity, at global level, to exercise themselves, as the United Nations offers. However, it is a privilege to be a member of the UN only in those countries that have internationally recognised independence. Now, if you sum up the government's positions that glow through the answers to both questions, it does not seem that the current government considers those principles, the values on which our country has been created and for which the Estonian cultural elite has been standing for decades, to be irrelevant. Instead, we have chosen a very stupid, very dangerous path, a gentle ice walk, where we are subject to the colonialist policies of the great powers, where indigenous peoples and small peoples will remain oppressed and human rights will only be an argument as long as it does not conflict with the imperialist ambitions of the great powers. I hope this attitude changes. This can be changed by the fact that the Estonian people find the principles on which this country is created. The self-determination of nations must be the deeper basis for the global political level of the world, for which the Republic of Estonia must stand by its original principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U380	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U381	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, ladies and gentlemen. I will sum up the color of the answers to the two enquiries, the content of the answers, the nature of the answers in a single word: depressing. It is frustrating because Estonia does not have its own foreign policy. What? There's cowardice, there's kissing, there's hypocrisy. Oh, how tough we are to defend human rights and civil rights when we can scream from foot to foot on this subject like blame and threaten Julk-Jüri! Russia will crucify, in Russia Navalnyi will release immediately! The same special forces sitting on Toompea are about to go, make a Chiki brik quickly with one of our helicopters, get Navalny out of the prison camp, save democracy in Russia! Oh, how we fall on the Belarusian dictator when it beats people! But for some reason, we consider it a democracy when the Spanish authorities beat up their own people. I recently saw video footage of the German police dispersing a public demonstration. And it wasn't some Muslim demonstration where cars were burned, incendiary bottles were dropped, and shops were looted. It was a German demonstration, a German demonstration, a cry for help. Because they're losing their country. The way the police beat people, dragged women and children across the country! It's depressing to see a man about my age, 70, standing in the middle of the street crying because the police are dragging his beaten wife away. It's a democracy, friends. We have nothing to do with human rights violations. And then we're talking about East Turkestan, Uighurs, because it's approved. Here we can hump our feet again and scream about how the Uighurs are being bullied, how I don't know what they're doing to the Uighurs. Of course it is regrettable, of course it is condemnable, of course we do not have to keep quiet. But we are silent as a stocking against this ethnic cleansing, the terror that is happening in Tibet. Does the Minister know how the nuns in Tibet are forced to become prostitutes? Does the Minister know how people are set on fire there and then they say that they set themselves on fire? Does the Minister know how the monasteries are being looted there to get people out of the neighborhood to empty the area of Tibetans and settle it with the Chinese? Do you know all this? Is this a violation of human rights? Does it deserve to be interfered with by the Republic of Estonia? We value human rights so much, we have human rights on our shield all the time. Does it deserve that we constantly focus on this issue, with examples? No, it is not worthy of the Republic of Estonia. Only Arnold Rüütel has had the courage to accept the Dalai Lama. The rest of the guys have gotten us all into the bushes quietly. It is cowardice, hypocrisy, sucking up, not an independent foreign policy of an independent state. And now we are also going to talk a little bit about the recent initiatives of the Minister towards Russia. Well, as we know, we have a mainstream decision to give up the peace of Tartu, the Tartu Peace Treaty to put it under Kalev, not to talk about it and, of course, to give up 5.2% of the territory of the Republic of Estonia without creating any problem on this subject, without requiring legal recognition of Tartu Peace without requiring any compensation, without requiring anything at all. I hear you're going to Ukraine now...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U382	Excuse me, do you need more time? Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U383	...or you're already in Ukraine. Do you suddenly advise the Ukrainian Government to give up Lugansk and Donbass, as well as Crimea, as well as Crimea? Turkey is currently fighting for Crimea, by the way. Turkey stated that it would never agree to go to Crimea in Russia's possession, Russia's composition. Maybe you'll advise the Ukrainians to give up Donbass and Lugansk what you're messing with. We gave up the peace of Tartu, we gave up the areas after the peace of Tartu without receiving anything in return. Now that is our foreign policy and you represent this foreign policy. I'd say so. I worked at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in its early days, and I have immensely good memories of the insane enthusiasm that was taken care of for Estonia. Fortunately, we were not yet in the European Union. It was then obvious that we were standing up for Estonia, not for the European Union, not for any European values, not for any imaginary human rights and universal human values, which are self-evident. They do not need to be repeated all the time and cuckoo about how we stand up for them. But we stood up for Estonia, where these things are self-evident. And then, when we started negotiating our accession to the European Union, it was as if an evil spirit poisoned the whole house. I couldn't work in that house anymore. That evil spirit came into that house. Estonia became something that was no longer to be mentioned. National interests, God, are you out of your fucking mind?! And that's how it's been going on and on until today. And that is why we do not have an independent foreign policy, and that is why we need to hear here, in this Chamber, in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, which should be one of the most important beacons of our statehood, such a dull pulpit, such a talk written together by officials, this self-denial of endless self-denial. Wake up, people, wake up in that house! The Ministry of Foreign Affairs doesn't need one independent state like this. We need a Ministry of Foreign Affairs composed of bold, creative and unstandardised people on the diplomatic front. If we had been negotiating the withdrawal of Russian troops the same way you are doing foreign policy, we would still have Russian troops in here to this day. At least Paldiski would still be their military base. But we didn't negotiate that way. We had brutally, at times almost manually, talks with members of the Russian delegation, and we achieved that there were no Russian troops here anymore. Take the example of this Ministry of Foreign Affairs that we had until 1997! It was the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of a truly independent country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U384	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U385	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank... the political party or, more specifically, its members for their discussion of the subject. [[The connection's breaking up.]] But where this issue has finally come to now, the fact that we are now completely breaking down our foreign minister and our foreign policy, is no longer good at all. On the contrary, I would very much like to congratulate our Foreign Minister, who has come before us and talks about what our foreign policy vision envisages. We must have our own foreign policy line as an independent state, and the Minister will wear it. I myself am a great fan of Asian lands. I am the head of the Taiwanese Friendship Group in the Riigikogu, but I am also part of the Chinese Parliamentary Group. I do not think that we are getting anywhere with our demands here, for example, on Taiwan's independence, because Taiwan's independence can be decided by the Thais themselves. And just like the Catalans, Catalan citizens themselves, in the composition of a Spanish democratic state. It's not up to us. The worst part is that we are going to demand it publicly here. It is primarily up to us to protect ourselves. It is up to us to pursue our own interests and to defend human rights internationally. We must show it in action according to our own values, according to our own values. I agree that very much or too much is only about human rights, there are few acts. There's gotta be more to it. This is definitely a place where the Estonian Ministry of Foreign Affairs can also contribute. But just by bragging, we're not getting anywhere. By cutting down our own country or by cutting down our foreign policy, we are not going to get very far. Once again, thank you for setting up this subject! Thank you very much to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his presentations. We will continue with our common foreign policy on international soil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U386	Thank you. That concludes the negotiations if the Minister does not wish to make his speech. But that is the wish he has expressed, so there is still a word for the Minister. Please, Eva-Maria Liimets!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U387	Thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I would very much like to thank you for the opportunity to participate today on an important issue such as human rights. I also very much acknowledge that the members of the Estonian Riigikogu have such a deep interest in human rights policy, but also in external communication. I am certainly looking forward to another opportunity to further develop these discussions. I would certainly like to stress once again that for Estonia, the topic of fundamental human rights values remains important in Estonia's foreign policy. When we talk about Ukraine, Estonia is very concerned about the fact that part of Ukraine has been annexed since 2014. The reason for my visit to Ukraine is certainly to express support and solidarity to Ukraine today in this difficult situation, where some of their country has been occupied. Thank you again and have a good day.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U388	Today's item number three is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U389	Let's move on to the agenda. The fourth item is the draft law amending § 62 of the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs 215. This is a third reading, and it requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu. Before going to the vote, it is possible to negotiate with the representatives of the political groups and Tarmo Kruusimäe would like to speak from the Isamaa Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U390	Thank you, good vice chairman. Dear colleagues and, of course, citizens, voters and all those people who have ever encountered some unpleasant situations! You do know, yes, that in the case of misdemeanour, if you are a victim, you will not be able to simply retrieve these personal data in order to reach an out-of-court agreement. If you have suffered any damage to your health, you will not be able to do so in advance, but if the whole situation has been dealt with, [all] you will be able to appeal to the court. This, however, actually increases the workload of the courts. We know that our courts are grinding slowly, but fairly. Now put more load on to make them grind even slower, that's wrong. The Chancellor of Justice has also drawn attention to this on several occasions, and I have also come to this in my personal experience. I have had the honour of being a member of the juvenile committee for 11.5 years, and whenever I have asked why you have not solved these situations between yourselves, it is not possible to find out. A child refuses to say that he's done some kind of shit, though perhaps, or perhaps, a parent will still pay for it. But this situation has not, yes, been normal. I am pleased that last June, on 17 June, the Committee on Legal Affairs initiated an amendment to § 62 of the misdemeanour procedure. I want to tell all citizens that the Riigikogu grinds even slower. There's always two things that affect it. One is how all kinds of media shape our general opinion and attitude. And, of course, another important factor is where the wind blows. I don't think it's necessary to wait for these different, vague, big things. Every ambassador, every political group, has the right to initiate [drafts]. If you see something out of place somewhere, that's the way it is. We don't know where everything went wrong, but at some point, when people's rights began to be dealt with, we tended to the fact that the perpetrator had more rights and at the same time the victim had left us in the background. This is not a reasonable situation. Today we will solve this problem. It's been dragging on for a long time. As I said, there are several arguments. Now the victim has the right to access his own health damage documents. Even in cases where minors have done something, it is possible to agree out of court. So the Fatherland has to say it's good. Citizens, if you have a problem, don't spam us with these mass letters. Everyone remembers who you gave that vote to three years ago or two years ago. I know there's you and your conscience at the ballot box, one of two reminds me of that ambassador's name. He's the one we need to turn to. Please support the bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U391	I don't see any more requests to speak. As has been said, this is a bill that requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu. Let's start preparing the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to the vote. I shall put to the vote at the third reading the draft law amending § 62 of the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs 215. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U392	No protests have come to us from anywhere. There are 93 ambassadors in favour of the draft, no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U393	Let's go to the fifth item on today's agenda. First reading of the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act and other laws initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group and Riigikogu member Raimond Kaljulaid. I invite Riina Sikkut, a member of the Riigikogu, to present the draft. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U394	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, We've been talking a lot about sick days, but it doesn't seem to be clear. After all, sickness benefit in itself is a very important part of the social security scheme. Its aim in Estonia has been partly to compensate workers for the loss of earnings, as people have cardiovascular diseases, colds, depression, fractures and, in a clear way, the worker must have some compensation to stay at home and be treated and then return to work. In this case, we are talking about ownership, about the employee's interest in staying healthy, about the employer's ability to design his motivation package as he pleases, and part of this motivation package can also be a generous sickness benefit. For example, if we reduce the compensation for sick days or increase the burden on employers to compensate for sick days, the social partners must agree among themselves what is right and fair. But we are not talking about whether a person with cardiovascular disease or a fracture can heal himself at home and then return to work. We have been in a crisis since last spring and, as we have seen in the emergency situation, compensation for the first three days of illness was implemented very quickly and as a very important measure, so that all people who feel sick could stay home immediately and not go into a job to spread infection in fear of income loss. Of course, we were also afraid of the disease, and 55,000 more were taken during the emergency period than in previous years. In total, compensation for the first three days of sickness cost around EUR 7.2 million. Ah, in an emergency, a total of 134000 sick lists were collected. But we're in a crisis, the threat of infection hasn't gone away. In the autumn, we discussed at length and the government finally came to a solution after four months or more of the debate, with 70% of [remuneration] being reimbursed in cooperation with employers from the second day of sickness. But we are still in a crisis, we are not talking about the short-term, perhaps one-off, need for a person to be put at risk and stay home for the sake of everyone else's health, but about the fact that the government has a limited number of instruments to control the infection. One of these instruments to reduce workplace sites, to reduce the spread of infection at workplaces, is to compensate more generously for sick days, so that people don't have to go to work in fear of income loss, thinking that maybe I don't have a corona, or that if I don't go to the test, I don't know, and maybe it just goes over and maybe it succeeds that no one gets the infection. There's no way to blame a person for hoping that he's not the one who gets the disease or who's passing on the infection. Now, in a crisis situation, we have actually come to what we read in yesterday's paper that jobs continue to be at the forefront. At the same time, the Health Board points out that some of the superiors hide close contact data, do not recommend giving up close contacts and are not directed towards self-insulation. On the one hand, the fact that a person does not want to lose income, on the other hand, clearly the employer also needs this worker. For example, you can get an infection when driving a bus to work, in recreation and smoke corners. To date, 72% of the colleges have workplaces, 61% of them are in Tallinn. Indeed, family infection is also increasing, so that some of this infection is not from workmates. As the Prime Minister said in Question Time today, 12% of the infection has come from co-workers and a third do not know where the infection came from. But whether the infection is in the family circle or somewhere else, if now an infected person, instead of staying at home with signs of disease, goes to work, travels to work with his colleagues in the morning, cooperates, takes a lunch break, then he passes the infection on to his coworkers. Now, let's review the same arguments that may have seemed completely logical in order to design the sickness benefit system before the crisis. For example, it's a liability. Understandably, for all social security schemes, there is a risk that it will be exploited, that the benefit will be received by a person who is not entitled to it. The more generous the scheme is, the greater the risk, and the more people who see that it may be useful not to follow the rules and to scheme for themselves. Of course, everyone misses pre-corona time, and so we argue with the principles of normal time. But if the criterion for compensation for the first day of illness is a positive test result or close contact identified by the Health Board, as well as close contacts included, then a person simply does not choose to stay home. Whether the sickness benefit can be less generous, we can start talking again after the spread of the contagious disease. The person is ill and must remain isolated in close contact. So this responsibility is entirely there. If the majority of the Riigikogu really thinks that this 100% of the first day is too generous and that a minimum wager still has to pay a fine of almost 100 euros for us all in two weeks' stay at home, then fine it, but we will compensate for the second day and 100% or the first day and 90%. There are opportunities to make adjustments to better meet all our expectations. But we cannot use the argument that we had in the pre-crisis period. Now, all this discussion and thinking and agreeing with the social partners. When we discussed the generous reimbursement of sick days in this very Chamber in the autumn, [we heard] both the government by the chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, and the Social Democrats suggested that [this debate is] very good and should, of course, think further, but we still need to take the time to find a solution that fits all ages and is something universal. Then they thought and discussed it for over four months. They thought, discussed, and developed a solution for four months. Temporary, as temporary as it can be. And now we're talking the same thing again about what to do with these sick days. The contribution of the social partners to changing labour legislation and social security schemes is undoubtedly a priority. We could leave much more working life for workers and employers to agree on. But we are not talking about a long-term reorganisation of the sickness compensation scheme or an increase in the burden on employers. On the contrary, we are talking about a crisis measure, about an instrument to limit the spread of infection, and about mitigating the burden of compensation for sick days for employers. Today, just as last spring, the resources for compensation for damage caused by restrictions are available in the supplementary budget. So if a company, you are in the tourism sector or somewhere else, has lost a significant part of its turnover, there is no employment for employees, then it is possible to receive crisis support. It is undoubtedly reasonable; it will help businesses survive the crisis and provide jobs for people. Those companies, for which we can say they are lucky, they can still produce food, they can still deliver goods to people at home, they have work, they do not have lost turnover, but they have the costs of personal protective equipment and restructuring work, so that people from different shifts, for example, do not come into contact with them, find a replacement if a person gets sick of finding a replacement, especially if specific skills or knowledge are needed when we are talking here, for example, about raising dairy cattle or producing bread, [it is difficult], and then they also have to pay compensation to a permanent person at home. You pay a replacement worker and compensation for a permanent person at home. It's a double load. If we knew that this crisis would last a month, [it could be said] well, hold on, it will be over. But we can't afford it. We cannot afford this to any of our employers. Rather, we will see that next year it will continue in the same way. These companies will have to bear this double burden. Now, the argument that the employer can be more generous and the local government can be more generous and pay the compensation itself from the first day of sickness. Yeah, it could be. In the event of illness, we see that jobs where people are being taken by bus in the morning, where there are large groups, jobs where work cannot be taken home, work that cannot be done on the long road. Perhaps the current compensation scheme for sick days is asymmetrical and the burden is asymmetrically borne by employers. This employer, where the risk of spreading infection is higher for workers, because workers work in large groups on the ground, there is a higher risk of infection and there is a higher risk for the employer that he can bear this burden. In contrast, it is pointed out that the second-day compensation already has an impact. That's great! It is very nice that it has been confirmed that the generous reimbursement of sick days leaves more sick people at home. This is exactly what we have been talking about so far, and similarly the survey has shown that nearly a quarter of workers, looking back at this year of crisis, say yes, they had a colleague who went to work sick, and 84% think that a more generous sickness benefit would have allowed the sick person to stay home. We are saying that Tallinn has decided to pay this compensation itself. It is excellent that a well-managed municipality decides to finance the first days of sickness. But local authorities are in a very unequal position. Government, various ministers have said that really, we are allocating funds to local governments in an additional budget, and at the expense of this, the first days of sickness can be financed. But in the same way, we hear in this Chamber that the ventilation systems in schools can be replaced at the expense of this, that it can cover other costs associated with the crisis. So this one amount of money that the municipality gets isn't enough to do all these things. If the compensation for the first day of illness is an important instrument and actually allows for a reduction of job openings, it should be national, valid in the same way for everyone, especially since, as Helmen Küttt has pointed out, this additional budget is largely financed by loan money and we will take it all together, we will pay everyone together, but the people of Tallinn will benefit now. Why such inequality? In times of crisis, inequality is amplified anyway. The role of the state should be to level it out. Then, in view of the fact that there is still the hope that we are now going to emerge from the crisis, the infection coefficient R0 is less than one, is in the range of 0.8 to 0.85, and we hope that it will stay and fall further. This means that we still have a relatively high number of infected people for several months, but according to the messages, the restrictions seem to be being relaxed. That makes sense. People are tired, no one wants the restrictions to last a day longer than necessary. But the spread of infection does not ask whether people are tired or whether we have restrictions. This means that, despite the significant mitigation of restrictions, it is necessary to motivate people to do the right thing. If we do not do so with restrictions, this can be done, for example, with a more generous sickness benefit. If, after deregulation, the government's plan is still to do everything as well as possible, to test widely, to identify the sick and close contacts, to send them home to isolation, then we can also see that not all people in close contact and, unfortunately, not all people with a positive corona test are staying at home. They either come back to work or ignore isolation rules in a different way. Instead of fine and punishing them, in the case of working people, the fact is that they do not need to lose their income is the joint contribution of all of us so that people can treat themselves calmly, stay at home, follow the rules without losing their income. And as I said in the case of employers, the burden is very unevenly distributed, the same applies to workers. People who work in larger groups cannot work from home and often earn lower than average wages. If the problem now is the high cost of sickness benefit, we will put on the ceiling that, for example, the ceiling is the average salary or median salary. Those who earn less than this will receive their full pay as sickness benefits, or those who cross this border will receive either 70% of the total or how we agree. So there are actually options. I would not write off the more generous compensation instrument for sick days if we wanted to get rid of the restrictions, because even in the autumn, as we have the spread of infectious diseases, the infection is becoming more widespread, with more colds and other diseases. In order for these sick people to stay home with the first symptoms of the disease, so that they go to the test, so that employers do not have such dual motivation or failure to give up close contacts, because it means both finding a replacement and paying sickness benefits, it would be essential for the state to bear this cost as a crisis measure. We all understand that, even in the case of deregulation, we need to take further steps to prevent the spread of the virus. What is very surprising is that there are actually no substantive arguments against it. No one says that more generous compensation for sick days does not work or is not suitable or does not help to limit the spread of infection. We also heard in Question Time today about how the government does not support the generous compensation for sick days, but mostly in a world-view. Although we are talking about a crisis measure, the argument we heard in Question Time is similarly a pre-crisis argument, where the individual's own responsibility is important, where we shape social security schemes in agreement with the social partners, where the world view is what determines decisions. But instead of defining the nature of the workplace, as we heard today in Question Time, the emphasis could still go on solving the problem that we still have so many workplace hotspots. It is therefore completely incomprehensible why the constructive proposal of the opposition aimed at curbing the spread of infection does not even recommend further discussion. Although there is no alternative plan, no one has come up with a plan to draw the line on the spreading of workplaces, how to motivate these people to stay at home, how to achieve compliance with isolation rules without any restrictions or orders or prohibitions. I hope for a meaningful debate and support for the draft tabled by the Socialists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U395	Good waitress, there are some questions for you. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U396	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good Riina! You really bought me. I was thinking, for example, if I were under your command somewhere in socialist Sweden or the People's Republic of China, you'd be fine. But no kidding now. So let me ask you if you have any information that the KeRe Agreement, I mean the Coalition Agreement, is either amended or amended or is planned to change it. The question is that we know that the coalition agreement is now more important to us in the Republic of Estonia than the Constitution. If it's not changed, it's like there's no hope. I read the coalition agreement, which says that we will continue to pay sickness benefit until the end of 2021, where the employer will pay compensation from the second to the fifth day and the sickness fund from the sixth day. If that's true, this whole discussion here is pretty barren. Or what do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U397	Thank you for your question. I am also amazed that the coalition agreement is the most important document we have here. But the fact that, until the end of the year, 70% of the second day will be reimbursed to employers by sharing this contribution, as agreed, is very nice. However, in addition to the fact that an additional crisis measure could not be implemented in a situation where we have many job stations. I guess the coalition partners couldn't see it coming and writing it down. Just as many lines and measures of the additional budget have not been detailed in the Coalition Agreement, it is exactly the same crisis measure that can be implemented if necessary, in addition to what has been agreed with the social partners. The second good thing you pointed out in the question is that the second day's compensation is valid until the end of the year. Maybe then we'll be in exactly the same situation in the fall. Once again, we will discuss what to do with these sick days from 1 January and how to reach an agreement on this and what kind of scheme to take forward. Evidently, during the next season of the spread of infections, we will need this generous reimbursement of sick days. And that is where it is interesting that the draft tabled by the Socialists on 17 September already provided for a more generous reimbursement of sick days for two winters, explaining in the explanatory memorandum that it will probably take at least that long before vaccination will have an effect and we can get rid of the need to motivate the corona positives to stay at home. Then we also wrote in the draft that after two seasons, after two winters, we should assess whether the scheme is working, whether people stayed at home more, whether it works so well that it could be implemented after the crisis, or whether we will return to the pre-crisis system and say that people have greater ownership.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U398	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U399	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! We now have a White Paper coming to the Riigikogu. I think it would be a very good idea for 100% of the first day to be in there as a crisis measure. There could be "memos," when it would be implemented, when employers would no longer pay for the first day, the second day, etc., when the state would assume this responsibility. In my opinion, it is pointless, or somehow, to introduce these special measures every time, again and again, during the outbreak of this particularly contagious disease. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U400	Thank you for your question. Indeed, the White Paper proposes an agreement on how we act as a society in terms of the spread of the virus, and sets out what a person can do for himself, what can be done by an employer, and thirdly what can be done by the state. In the case of a country, I think it is a very important measure, and it could easily be mentioned in the White Paper, to motivate corona-positive and close contacts to stay home with a more generous sickness benefit.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U401	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U402	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I am very pleased that the Social Democrats have decided, despite the fact that everything in the coalition agreement states how life works for two years, to submit their drafts, because otherwise the opposition in the Riigikogu does not make any sense. The question is, however, about the treatment of employers. We are very much told that we have agreed to continue in the autumn [current sickness pay]. How do you feel that if this draft were to receive support, whether employers, both small businesses and large enterprises, would have been treated equally, because public funds would be used as a crisis measure and, in fact, employers would be able to apply their funds to, for example, replacements and other costs? After all, this would actually be a very useful measure for employers, and this has been alluded to by both small businesses and trade unions. In fact, in the Committee on Social Affairs, Arto Aas, who represented large companies, said that this would undoubtedly be the right measure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U403	Thank you. Indeed, trade unions, the Small Business Association and employers' representatives state that, as a crisis measure, the state can decide to fund more generously the retention of sick people in their homes, for example, if this obligation is not imposed on employers. Now we are talking about the cost being borne by the state. Now, on this sectoral equality or equal treatment. Like last spring, the criteria have been set for measures to receive crisis assistance from the state. They should be. Very good. In a clear and transparent manner [has been stated], who qualifies as qualified. Some sectors that have been hit more by the economic crisis are more supported and have a very logical sectoral structure. But if we keep looking. If we do not have an uncontrolled spread of infection, but the infection is still spreading and we do not know who it is going to hit, whether it is hitting a worker in the tourism sector or a farm worker, an office worker, a kindergarten teacher, then develop a measure that would suit those employers whose workers, for example, have created a job centre [is very difficult]. It is very difficult to develop a measure that suits both large and small, both in Tallinn and Valgamaa. But sick days are the kind of solution that already works, that exists. Everyone knows how to apply for it, how this data exchange and everything else works, and it's sector-neutral. This help, this relief is going right where the infection is. There is no need to put in place a separate scheme and administration, but really to allow more generous reimbursement of sick days for the corona-positive.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U404	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U405	Thank you for the floor. Good Riina! We've had a lot of discussions on this, but there's one thing I don't understand. Maybe you can understand. I've asked the Prime Minister many times, and I also asked the Prime Minister at Question Time today. I don't understand what an argument is against these sick days. Do you understand if anyone is personally opposed to this? Today I asked the Prime Minister again why they were giving birth to new injustices. I didn't get a substantive answer. But a nice lady just after Question Time wrote to me and said that you know that the Prime Minister isn't going to understand it, because he still gets paid more than all the people we stand for, even if the sickness is taken off. Is this the case that the Reform Party simply cannot be expected to understand those people who first and foremost get hit by these sick days by cutting off that first day and reducing it by 30%? Or do you have another version to explain it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U406	No, I also have no idea why, in a situation where there is no substantive argument, [it is not to be done]. In order to limit the spread of infection, especially in view of the future, it would be an important complementary instrument. This is a very constructive proposal by the opposition and expenditure is not high in the context of an additional budget. I myself have said with a smile that members of the Riigikogu cannot take a sick leave. Whether we're sick, we're home, we're still getting paid. It's exactly the same with the members of the government. There are people who have spent their lives doing work that can simply be done at home with a computer. Even if your throat's fast, you don't go to work to spread the infection, but you can still get your job done. I also don't know if I've ever had to take a sick list in my life because the job can be done from home. Indeed, empathy is necessary to understand that very many people in Estonia work differently. They have to go to work. By going to work, the risk of getting infected is greater than for many others. They use public transport or take the bus organised by the employer. Work is done behind production lines or in premises where there may be dozens of people, where keeping distance is not possible during the working day, and even using personal protective equipment is still at risk of disease. I also think that if people have not been in this situation, it is very difficult for them to imagine how many people in Estonia would actually get relief from this measure, and this may be an obstacle to such a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U407	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U408	Thank you. Honourable waitress! We have recently been able to read on the news that the government has concluded a compromise with one opposition party on a draft 347. There were broadly two parts in this draft: one was sick days, and the other was about police rights. Since this criticism of police rights was mostly just bullshit, the government began to solve a non-problem, but what is quite a problem, i.e. the reimbursement of sick days from day one, they did not solve that problem. What do you think you should do in this situation? Should the corona-positive come here for a week to hug before Parliament so that the government can understand that this is actually a serious matter that should be resolved?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U409	Thank you. Just as there are many real concerns or serious concerns that those who really need help do not sound loud enough. They do not have public relations, they do not have access to power politicians, they cannot negotiate appropriate restrictions or support measures. But those who have these instruments will have the right decisions for themselves. It is the same here that, even if there is no real concern, if the government turns out to be unpleasant enough, it is as if the desired result is achieved. But by making constructive suggestions, arguing, explaining, hoping for empathy, the result is zero. Rather, the 347 part of the sick days is being arranged to adopt it in an urgent manner under another bill, as we have seen. So, really, what do you recommend to people who want to be reimbursed for more sick days? Indeed, direct contact must be established with members of the government and a story presented.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U410	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U411	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Riina, the representative of the good initiators! I have a very simple question. This kind of connects with Indrek Saare's question: why doesn't today's coalition support this bill? We know very precisely that the Reform Party does not exactly support this in the coalition. In my normal life, I would understand this completely too, because, in the worldview, just the Reform Party thinks that people have to live on their own, and the less the country contributes and supports it, the better. But it is a crisis situation and it is one of the best measures to prevent this disease. Have you understood, Riina, whether the Reform Party, in this crisis, in this corona disaster, attaches less importance to the health of the people of Estonia and our getting out of the pandemic than its own ideological views? Is it more important for them today than for the people of Estonia to follow an ideological view?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U412	Thank you. After all, the Reform Party does not generally support support support measures in general, nor does it strongly support entrepreneurship support measures. Well, the cost of the budget and everyone should manage themselves, and we have fair competition or free competition here, but somehow the additional budget has support measures for businesses. It can therefore be seen that it is still possible to overcome such an ideological barrier and to plan support measures in a crisis situation. Why this has been done for businesses but not for people who are stable at home with disease is incomprehensible. From the Prime Minister's answers, for example, in today's Question Time, I really get the impression that it is a purely world-view preference, a lack of understanding that a measure is needed or that it would benefit in terms of resolving the crisis and managing people. So here is a world-view barrier that has not been overcome in the crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U413	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U414	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good Riina! I too cannot understand why the government does not support this very necessary and effective measure. All the more so since many of our neighbours have had a very good impact on the full reimbursement of the same sick days. Perhaps the question is that today's Prime Minister's party likes to save money. Just a few days ago, there was news in our national broadcasting that every new day limits the Estonian economy at least 7 million euros minus. Please, Riina, please explain to the Prime Minister once again very clearly how our proposal will help to improve this negative impact on the Estonian economy and budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U415	Thank you. This economic growth does not come from anywhere else, except that the people of Estonia must be able to work. The jobs they can do are healthy, and in order for them to remain healthy, it is essential that all colleagues with symptoms, all corona-positive colleagues, stay at home, people who feel sick go to test and close contacts remain isolated, as the current health department prescribes. So this 7 million cost will only occur if we let this virus grow and we let it grow in a situation where we have a way to better control the spread of the infection. Very often we either confuse this short and long-term perspective or fail to take both into account. The fact that sick days, for example, are currently an additional cost in the supplementary budget, and this makes the balance worse by EUR 8.5 million, is clear. Everyone can see it. Perhaps it will scare you if the budget deficit continues to increase in the current situation. In the same long term, if we think that EUR 7 million per day, not to mention the methodology, but certainly this crisis cost per day is very high, if we can avoid the third wave by applying this 8.5 million day of sickness more generously to the sick, then this win in millions is superbly higher than what we spend on sick days.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U416	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U417	Thank you. We have talked very much in this context about the various practical reasons why this change is needed: in order to save the economy in order to alleviate the constraints, so that people are at home, etc. But I'm gonna ask you for an ethical assessment of a situation where a person who can't actually feed his family in any other way than on his way to work, and then he's gonna get a call from the Health Board and tell him that now you're home for two weeks, and that's why your pay is going down, I don't know, for example, 200 euros this month. Is it on the state's side, in the context of ethical infection control, to require a person to stay home at the cost of the well-being of his family?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U418	Thank you. That's a good question! This is undoubtedly not ethical. Putting people in front of difficult choices, where he and his colleagues are on one side, and coping with the family on the other side. This morning there was the Riigikogu Working Group, where we really were very interesting in discussing whether the crisis is a kind of mirror, as we are now talking about the ethical and very difficult choice of each person, whether to put the family's livelihood in jeopardy or the health of ourselves and colleagues. After all, this crisis also reflects the choices made over the longer term. Take, for example, the elderly who spent working life in the Soviet Union. What are we talking about? What was the cost of saving a nursing home while working in the Soviet Union? They have survived all these shocks, and now we do not give enough importance to the social sector, there are no home services, there are people who have to pay for the care home, the pension is relatively low. Now the vaccination, too. If you're lucky and you have a good family doctor, you're gonna get one shot of that first 36 Pfizer run. If you don't get that lucky, you're still waiting. There is a great deal that we have not been able to contribute to the social field and value older people in 30 years. All this is reflected in the crisis against, the priorities we set, the choices we make. It's exactly the same for Russian-speaking people. In 30 years we have not been able to deal better with integration, reduce segregation in Tallinn or Estonia in general, and then, in the rapid phase of the spread of infection, we have to say that we lock or lock Lasnamäe. But actually, this is a situation where we are the result of our past choices. These are very complicated, including ethically complicated choices to what to do. In a crisis situation, it is easy to apply harsh restrictions or to lay down commands and languages. This is also socially acceptable. But what it really reflects about our choices, and also about ethical choices, is what I think the government should now take into account when setting priorities for vaccination or designing other measures. In fact, this ethical choice exists all the time, but I'm not sure if any member of the government has consciously thought about it, and just as much about the ethical choice that every korona-positive has, whether to follow the instructions and rules of the Health Board or make the right choices for themselves, for their livelihood.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U419	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U420	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Dear Riina! I may not have listened very carefully to the discussion, I had a very long, more than half an hour [long] phone call with one of Kohtla-Järve's shop vendors who gets 600 euros' salary. He asked me for advice on what to do. He had a colleague working sick, and now they're shutting down the whole store because it's a small store, they're all close to each other, and from my 600-euro salary, I didn't know how to fast confirm or disprove his calculation, but he calculated that he's getting more than 100 euros less. It's a single mother, and she cried for over half an hour on my phone, and I didn't really know how to comfort her or explain to her how the state could help her. Riina, maybe you're a more empathetic person than I am. What advice would you give to those people or to us whom such voters call and cry in the pipe?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U421	Thank you. Indeed, the current situation is that a servant of EUR 600 will lose a hundred euros in close contact at home, and this is a very important part of the income. Unfortunately, unlike the trauma of the disease, few may suffer several times, a person may be in close contact repeatedly, even several times in one month, we have heard these examples. In such a situation, it is incomprehensible why both quarantine and sick leave are not more generously compensated. For a low-paid person working at the Kohtla-Järve store, the loss of income in this month is really great. And as the members of the government recommend to contact the local government, that's all there is. If the social security system lets us down, it is either compensation for sick days or future retirement, then the local government's income support is the lowest safety net that should eventually keep us all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U422	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U423	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! When Eduard was called by a person who is concerned that now the shop is closing down and indeed, in close contact, people are staying at home and my income is falling, then another local government manager called me, who said that it is a very strange situation that the rich are getting richer, the poor are poorer. The rich have something to share, for example, the city of Tallinn. I very much appreciate the city of Tallinn, but small places cannot allow it, because the money that comes to the municipalities is said to clean up the ventilation of schools and kindergartens, support those in need, pay mental health benefits, everything else, and then also pay for the first day of sickness. I think that there is unfair treatment here for local governments too, because some are then, like, better, others worse, and people's resentment of local governments is actually greater. Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U424	Thank you. I fully agree that this is not the way to make people who have sick days allowance, really as Eduard showed, lose 100 euros per month, look at the municipality to see why you are not compensating, in a situation where perhaps the municipality has decided to clean up the ventilation of the school at the expense of this extra budget subsidy. I remembered another suggestion from the government that a teacher's bonus or a bonus should also be paid out of this ventilation money. This recommendation has also been made. For me, too, when we are talking about regional inequalities and imbalances that we have in Estonia anyway, to build the resolution of the crisis to be dependent on the financial livelihood of the local government, is extremely incorrect.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U425	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions for you. Thank you very much. There is now the floor of Mr Hele Everass, member of the Committee on Social Affairs, on this agenda. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U426	[[Remote connection]] Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Am I an answer?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U427	You're a great guy right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U428	[[Remote connection]] That's great. The Committee on Social Affairs discussed the draft on 22 March and a very thorough presentation was made by Riina Sikkut, the representative of the initiators of the draft. Next, Ülle Jordan, representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs, gave an overview of the position of the Government of the Republic. The Government of the Republic discussed the draft at its meeting on 18 March and decided not to support it in its proposed form because it is planned to extend until 31 December 2021 the sickness benefit scheme, where the employer pays the sickness benefit from the second to the fifth day and the sickness fund from the sixth day. In addition, insurance cases have also been specified. Everyone is clearly [in law] who receives this insurance benefit and in what situation. Of course, there was also a discussion in the Commission. Mrs Helmen Kütt was concerned that payment of sickness benefit for the second day would still not solve the problems and that people could still work sick to keep their income. He asked the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs why they were dealing with the consequences rather than eliminating the cause. Ülle Jordan replied that the current practice, though short-term, but still the second to fifth day compensation, has already produced positive results, according to the Health Insurance Fund. Helmen Kütt asked on what basis this positive was assessed, and Ülle Jordan replied that it would be monitored on the basis of the number of sick leaves. Priit Sibul then asked what the employers' position was on this draft. Riina Sikkut replied that in the past, the Estonian Employers' Confederation and the Estonian Small and Medium Enterprises Association have not supported a change in the sickness compensation scheme, but that is precisely because for employers this means a significant increase in the financial burden, but the current draft does not increase this burden and therefore it is expected that employers will also support it. Then decisions were made. It was proposed that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 13 April 2021. Secondly, it was proposed to reject the draft. There were 7 members of the Commission in favour and 1 against. Hele Everaus, the speaker, was appointed before you to represent the Governing Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U429	Thank you, good waitress. You also have at least two questions. Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U430	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Madame waitress! Unfortunately, I have to ask you the same question I asked Riina Sikkut. What is your advice to the Kohtla-Järve shop vendor, who, for the first time at home in close contact, loses 120 euros of his 600-euro salary, and if he accidentally gets sick or gets in close contact for the second time, then the second time, which makes his monthly income almost half of what he misses because of this korona and once because of a colleague who has come to work sick. Is your advice the same as your colleagues in the government to turn to the municipality, the municipality will find this support in the crisis aid, ventilation money or social benefits, but it is not the government's concern, let the local government handle it on its own? What is your advice to such individuals?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U431	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much for your question. It was not in the Commission's way of discussing it, as you might think, but I understand the concern very well. I think there are a lot of problems. An individual solution must be found at every level and in every situation. I could give you that advice if I... I have also been approached by very different people with very different problems, and I will then try to find a solution in this particular situation, but at this point in time, in general, I do not dare to give you any advice on what to say.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U432	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U433	Thank you, dear waitress. Yes, you can always sew a tailor's suit, but we understand that in this epidemic situation it would be much easier and more effective to solve it in general and at national level. After all, it concerns thousands, potentially tens of thousands of people and their concerns about income or the very bad dilemma that I do, whether I take a risk with regard to myself and others' health, or if I lose a significant amount of my salary. As a doctor, as a person in this field, can you find a clear reason why the state could not cover this rather low cost, in addition to all other costs, in order to make compensation for sick days much fairer and help us save health for the whole of society? Can you give me a meaningful explanation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U434	Good questioner, unfortunately your time is up.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U435	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, colleague. That's the right question. If I had a bottomless wallet, if I had power, I'd pay for everything in this life. But you know that this particular solution is not the solution to all the problems. Knowing the costs that were already covered in health care and the social sector before the crisis, which are now getting worse, alas, a balance must be sought here. I don't think it's all perfect what we can do right now, but we're in this situation. I can tell you that I have had to see my whole life how, because we don't have a wallet as it should be, the very seriously ill have to leave much earlier, even though they could live on. So this is real life right here in Estonia. We need to look for balance and look at the big picture. We cannot make individual decisions without looking at it. I regret to say that this is the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U436	Now Paul Pulpland.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U437	Thank you very much, manager. I have a question for the waitress. Is it known that the parties to the coalition are in any way negotiating or planning to amend the coalition agreement concerning the arrangements for the payment of sickness benefit? What's in the coalition agreement, we know.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U438	[[Remote connection]] I don't have that kind of information.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U439	Honourable Light Everaus, there are no further questions for you. Thank you. Do you want to open negotiations? Looking at the board, that's a wish. I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask Evgeni Ossinovski, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U440	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Well, what do I say? Long and hard, for six months, we have been talking about this. It's like water on a goose's back. There is no substantive objection to this frankly thought-only proposal that 100% of their previous salary has been reimbursed to patients with corona and their close contacts. The overwhelming public interest is that these people stay at home and, of course, it is unethical to require them to stay at home at the cost of losing several hundred euros of their previous income. It's all clear. Mrs Everaus said that this was a question of opportunity, that balance had to be sought, that there were other situations in which there was a lack of money in medicine. Yes, Estonian health care as a whole is underfunded, I absolutely agree with that. In my time, we have directed an additional 1% of GDP to health, precisely in order to improve this situation, and this should undoubtedly go on. In this regard, Mrs Everaus should, of course, address the Minister for Finance, who is part of her party, who has said that she is not going to solve these problems. However, in the present case, this argument is not adequate. We are talking here about EUR 7 to 8 million. Every day, the corona restrictions cost the Estonian society as much as this measure for the whole year. In fact, if [this measure] is able, for example, to reduce our infection by 10 to 15%, then it will certainly also benefit society financially. This is a gain, not a cost, because by this we will be able to reduce more quickly the other restrictions that exist in other sectors of the economy. But no, they still don't. We read in the paper how the coalition has entered into an agreement on a draft of 347. Now, as a result of all this stupid bullshit, excuse the expression that we have heard, how the police are going to take the children from home by force as a result of this bill, and I don't know what else to do, [we have] completely crazy talk [heard], there are people who have been misled from time to time, there is a compromise on this point and this bill is being amended. The government has been looking for and finding a solution to the non-problem for days. Imagine that! The only real problem with this draft is the reimbursement of sick days. There has been no initiative in this regard to actually find a friendly solution for people so that we can really allow them to stay at home. I will not repeat these long rational arguments again; Riina did so very well. When I thought about it, I was loomed in a work of art. I brought this for you to show. It's the work of one of Narva's photographers. His name is Maria Kapajeva. Yeah, Mr. Chairman too. I give it to you, Mr. Jüri Ratas, because to the hall I also made a bigger printout. He's made a photo exhibition and a book about the era of Kreenholm. Kreenholm as a social symbol, the attraction of tens of thousands of people throughout their lives. He's made a very good book about these good women, mostly women, but also about some men, the photo exhibition, I suggest you get it, where it's really different from Kreenholm. In the context of today's debate, I looked at the postcard I had on this desk, and what is currently happening in sick days was woven by invisible people. We are saying that we actually have thousands of people who have to go to work to do the work we need. They can't do it from the distance of [the work], but they can't be noticed. They won't be noticed. They have no problems, but the concerns of those who vocally express their opposition, whether legally or illegally, and do so through the press are resolved. But these people are real, they are real Estonian people and there are many of them. Not just a lot, but they are actually in the majority of Estonia, and they not only wait and do not need us to actually resolve this issue, but they also have every moral right to have this decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U441	Thank you. Any more calls? There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The Steering Committee has proposed to reject draft 341 at first reading. Let us begin with the preparation of this vote. Can we go to the vote? Thank you. I shall put to the vote the draft proposal of the lead committee 341 to be rejected at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U442	With the result of 60 votes to 26, 1 abstention, 341 have been rejected at first reading and are excluded from the procedure. That concludes the fifth item.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U443	Let us move on to the sixth item, this is the first reading of the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act initiated by the Isamaa Group. I ask Urmas Reinsalu, a member of the Riigikogu, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U444	Thank you. Honourable representative of the people! This draft law concerns an extremely important issue. This concerns the main challenge we are facing in terms of how to tackle coronavir in a more effective way. The different, faster spreading mutations of the Corona virus travel across national borders. An effective measure to prevent them is the imposition of a duty to test general persons prior to or immediately after their arrival, which is theoretically provided by the law in force. But the current practical system is built up backwards. It is usually possible to get rid of self-insulation by using two tests. In order to avoid wider restrictions on cross-border movement, it is appropriate to establish a general test principle. I would remind you that this principle has also been supported by the Scientific Advisory Board in several of its presentations to the Government of the Republic this year. Why hasn't this been done before? According to officials, the failure to implement such a system in the past has been due to the fact that the Health Insurance Act provides for the implementation of a quarantine provided by sickness benefit in the event of refusal to diagnose. However, in the case of an existing reverse self-insulation system, no sickness benefit is paid for being self-insulated. Enabling the system proposed in the draft will place particular emphasis on the introduction of general testing in cross-border movements and will provide a legal opportunity to seek harmonisation of rules, particularly with the countries of our region. I would like to remind you that the general principle of testing to prevent the British strain was introduced at the beginning of this year in essence by the majority of European countries. We can talk here about a great many of the Member States of the European Union. It is also legally necessary to make testing a primary requirement and quarantine an alternative to refusing it. Right now, the situation is backwards. In short, what does this bill allow? This draft law removes the technical obstacles that the government is now claiming to have to face in the absence of universal border testing by the government. Now, here we have been talking, and the Prime Minister has also referred to 'fundamental arguments' as to why it is not possible to test at the overall borders, as if it were contrary to human rights and fundamental rights. I am sure that the initiators of the draft do not agree with this approach. This is proportionate, namely, to prevent cross-border transmission of the virus in a situation where we have already seen and paid an expensive price for the mass spread of the British strain across national borders to Estonia. I believe that when we talk about returning to normal free movement, it is certainly reasonable for us to cooperate with the countries in our region in such a way that similar measures have been implemented, as other countries in our region do. That is why this vote is essentially about this bill. Do we think that a measure to control the corona virus should be implemented, as proposed by the Scientific Advisory Board, which is used by most European countries and which has been considered proportionate and appropriate in order to avoid a general ban on cross-border movements, as well as the European Commission's recommendations, providing for either testing or quarantine? According to the model we have proposed, this is an opportunity for the government, but we must certainly first of all create this legal basis so that there is no inappropriate implementation here. Secondly, I would like to stress that we actually had a talk about this in the old government, if Jüri remembers. And then there were officials who said it couldn't be done because the law was legally flawed. I asked when the Social Security officials would work it out. They said they're working on it. We cannot stall, Parliament must come to the aid of the government if this legal framework has not been achieved so far. And who comes to the aid of this other than the benevolent Fatherland Party, in order to close this gap so that we can protect Estonia, the Estonian people in the most efficient and proportionate way from the cross-border spread of the corona virus, precisely in the conditions of spread of mutated virus strains. So I'm asking the National Council to support this bill. It is a draft law drawn up in a spirit of cooperation between political parties, which is written out of only one clear objective: that we are able to rule out this virus without fail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U445	Thank you very much, good waitress. You have questions too. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U446	Thank you. I have a number of questions on one issue, because they are very short. First of all, can I get it right, give the waitress a ballpoint pen, please give one that writes that this testing system has been used in several countries and it has justified itself? Secondly, if it were applied in Estonia, it would not be in any way contrary to our legislation, and these interpretations that it is as if it were touching people's integrity are not relevant? And if a person doesn't want to take a test and is being quarantined, it's not taking a man's freedom, as has been interpreted, and there has been opposition to such arguments?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U447	Thank you. This is a series of extremely important problems. First of all, is the requirement to diagnose infectious diseases in any way, whether the requirement for diagnosis is imposed at national level or whether this diagnosis is for cross-border movements, contrary to international human rights or the logic of the Estonian Constitution? No, it's definitely not. I would point out that the current Law on the Control of communicable diseases also provides a general mandate that the Health Board can arrange for the diagnosis of persons for the control of communicable diseases, and if a person refuses to diagnose, it is actually a rather misleading idea, created by the Prime Minister, that people are somehow being tested forcefully. Nobody's talking about some kind of human force testing. If a person generally refuses to test the principle, and no doubt all people have the right to return to Estonia, then he or she must remain in compulsory quarantine. According to our draft, the principle is that this compulsory quarantine should not be compensated if it returns to Estonia in a supranational movement, but would be self-isolation without a claim for compensation. Now, is testing an appropriate measure? Yes, I think this is the most appropriate measure. If we are also talking about the widespread spread of the national virus now, we have seen them, especially in the epicentric regions, failings in the organisation of testing sites. It is certainly reasonable to organise this at national level. If, of course, we want to step-by-step return to normality, we will achieve that we prevent the spread of the virus and that the virus is at a low stage of spread in Estonia until it subsides, then it is certainly particularly important that the income of new mutated strains is prevented. We see that, unfortunately, the UK strain was not able to respond to it quickly enough. After all, we have now stated, and this has been demonstrated by the University of Tartu survey, that the South African strain is, indeed, to a limited extent, but it has already been found in a limited sample, which was probably a sample of 300, on several occasions. And we also see a number of areas in the world where the spread of the Brazilian virus strain has become prevalent. In all this logic, the starting point is precisely that if we have a method of effectively preventing the spread of the virus, the spread of mutated strains, we should use it without stretching. In the current situation, officials have identified a legal vacuum as one of the problems. This will be removed by the draft of the Fatherland if we adopt it, and I think it is appropriate. The second problem that the Prime Minister has highlighted, as the helping hand of the Fatherland takes it away, is that it is against fundamental rights. But I can assure you unequivocally and clearly: it is not against any fundamental rights. The diagnosis requirement can also be established according to the current Law on Control of Diseases.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U448	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U449	Thank you very much, manager. Yes, Urmas, an extremely good initiative! I have to say that the talk that something is against fundamental rights, I have noticed that in the current government a little bit against understanding what is against fundamental rights or not, is wrong. But I say that the initiative is exceptionally good and, in my opinion, supporting or not supporting this draft shows quite clearly who actually wants to fight the new, invading strains of the virus more effectively, who does not want to. So in that sense, this initiative will bring the truth to light, and soon. But the question is, what you referred to in your speech was that we had a pretty good government, rather recently, where we had some pretty good cooperation partners, in fact, that the bill was basically being dealt with, but that the Ministry wasn't ready. And then you said, a little uncertainly enough, that the current government, like, wouldn't pick up a pipe on this thing. Or I did not understand whether or not the current government had said anything about this draft, had in any way responded or had not responded. What is the current government's position on this bill, can you say?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U450	The position of the current government, I must say, as regards the organisation of universal testing, is vaguely negative. And, of course, with regard to this legal issue, the government says that it wants to solve it in its own way, in a more appropriate way, in order to provide such a legal basis in the law, but we cannot separate the objective from the instrument. The law is still for man, not the man for the law. Our goal is that this law will also be implemented by the government. Certainly today's parliamentary vote also shows how much the representative of the people wants to use the measure considered reasonable by the Scientific Advisory Board and other countries in Estonia as well. And let's say, even in the context of this patchy law situation, the previous government, on one occasion, considered it reasonable to apply it. And that was the very first dramatic moment of the spread of the UK strain. When European countries, including Estonia, stopped direct air traffic for a certain time at the end of last year, it was clear that the people of Estonia had to return to Estonia. Then the principle was introduced, which was now abolished by this new government, that a person must take a test, be quarantined and re-tested after quarantine, and that was, in fact, a legal quarantine. I don't know how many people used paid quarantine, but it was due to this current law on communicable diseases. According to the logic of our draft, this self-isolation, if a person refuses to test, would not be worth paying for this difference.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U451	Priit Onions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U452	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Urmas! Our initiative is absolutely reasonable, unfortunately only stuck in Parliament's corridors for weeks. If we were to look at which strains are coming up, of course we would have expected it to be processed more quickly, because the government has not dealt with this issue in this form at all. It has also been supported by the Scientific Advisory Board. What do you think the problem is, why doesn't the government really support it? Because also yesterday in the Committee on Social Affairs, when we were discussing the virus, while government representatives try to please people, talk about possible reliefs, but clearly Henry Kattago, who introduced the White Paper to us yesterday, said that in fact we are in the red zone and in the most difficult situation, nothing will change here in the near future. Then why are we not taking these preventive measures?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U453	I think that the quality of decisions, the speed of decisions and the purpose of decisions in the triangle ensure effective crisis management. Unfortunately, we have seen that crisis management has recently been intermittent, and the fact is that figures also reflect this. Now, when it comes to the risk of the British strain's income, we were aware of that in the beginning of February. This draft law was put into parliamentary procedure by the Isamaa Group on 8 February. And we repeatedly reminded the public and the Prime Minister of the need to introduce a monitoring system, as did Mr Ossinovski and other Members. Unfortunately, it was only in the beginning of March that there was a signal at the level of the government that the British strain has indeed begun to spread widely in Estonia and its spread rate, according to scientifically different estimates, is 50% faster than the previous strain, and its consequences we have seen in part in the current third wave of Estonia. So one thing is the draft, the other is the implementation of this substantive policy. Yes, it is regrettable that our motives kept this bill in a drawer for two months. During that time, the British strain has become a mass in Estonia. We can't look back today and say that it was put under a rug to wait until the problem is resolved. The problem hasn't solved anywhere. The fact is that when we look at the latest statistics and pan-European statistics worldwide, the corona virus is once again in a rapid rise phase and most European countries use a method, evidence-based, method recommended by the European Commission, which has not been considered necessary in Estonia. We have tabled a draft law on this; this draft law has been hanging for two months in Parliament's proceedings. The reason is that there is a legal vacuum. We could solve this if the majority in Parliament were prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U454	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U455	[[Remote connection]] Dear Chairman, Good Urmas! For as long as I can remember, you've always supported the ideology of testing. Surely this is a step in the right direction. At the same time, I am still asking about their possibilities and dangers. Certainly during the summer period we get some relief from this virus, but there is no doubt that a debate across Europe would be needed on how to better manage this virus in Europe, how to create a unified system. Is there anything going to happen in this direction? And from the point of view of the dangers: can't our domestic regulation go the way that, in a sense, our previous item on the agenda has gone, that a message is coming from the government, but let the municipalities do it? Where there is an airport and where there is an external border, let it be settled on a municipality-by-government basis, after all, the money has been allocated.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U456	That's a serious question. I think that Estonia is still a unitary state and that this type of health crisis must be managed not from the bottom up and not from the side, but from the top down. There is no doubt that the current right also gives local authorities the power to implement additional safety measures, and this is absolutely appropriate. But it is certainly not conceivable inside Estonia that the municipality controls the external border of Estonia. This right to set up external border control measures, no confidence measures for the municipality. Nor is it legally conceivable at national self-government borders. However, I do think that when we are talking about improving testing possibilities and making them more accessible, indeed, the practice of several countries is that, as part of a national policy to mitigate restrictions, there is also a large-scale improvement in testing opportunities, including the availability of rapid tests. There have been doubts about whether or not to use it in Estonia. There is also a need for clarity at national level in these matters. Not that it's allowed in any way, can be used, but it's really like you can't use it or there's a hesitant position. We consider it most important, after all, to prevent the spread of the virus in a mass situation, especially in relation to jobs or places where people are working together every day, so that people's health can be quickly diagnosed in these places. Now, as far as this draft is concerned, it must be said that it does not in itself entail additional costs for the State. After all, he actually takes off the compensation for quarantine, which is paid for days of illness, in the event of a cross-border diagnosis, if a person does not want to be tested. However, it is clear that if the government decides by means of its act to impose a general testing obligation at national borders or a prior test requirement, for example, within 72 hours before it is in the current model, if this principle is maintained that foreigners must pay for it themselves and the state pays for it to the Estonian people, then there will certainly be some costs for this testing if the state pays for it. And what's important about this whole test logic at the borders is that we've seen one thing in practice. The question is whether people comply with the rules of self-insulation when they have to be quarantined in close contact. I think, according to general demographic research, people's behavioral patterns are the same when they come back from abroad. And here we have seen numbers: I think 61% of people follow these rules, and over 30% of people, according to the survey, do not follow these rules. Consequently, the most effective measure is the most definitive measure if a person shows a negative test prior to entry or takes it at the border. Then it will certainly be considerably higher that a person is not at least healthly manifested by the carrier of the virus at the stage where the test is already negative.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U457	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U458	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I don't know if it's any consolation, but just so you know, the last draft, initiated by the Social Democrats, was also presented in February, true, 10 days later than yours, but you can see today in the Chamber. So we're both in the same position. This, of course, is terribly unfortunate, because the draft that you have tabled is very important, as is the Social Democrat draft on preventing the spread of the virus. My question is, why don't you explain it a little bit for the sickness benefits? That if a person refuses a test at the airport, he will not receive any sickness benefit for seven days. Is that it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U459	Thank you. Well, a practical change in the situation for people in terms of the days they've been reimbursed doesn't bring along our draft. As it is now the case that when a person is self-insulated, this self-isolation itself is not refundable either. But actually the principle is, our logic is that it has to be defined, but right now testing is only an alternative to possible self-insulation. We say that testing before entry or at national borders should be confirmed as a general principle. In fact, it has also been admitted by [others], I have spoken to several of the relevant State Chancellery, experts of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and the Ministry of Justice also took the view that quarantine can still be an alternative. The first logic must be to diagnose an infectious disease, and quarantine is either an additional measure or a substitute for it. And indeed, this situation has changed somehow. In this time of urgency, as dynamic as the virus spreads, I think it is necessary to draft an antivirus-related bill. The political will of the coalition is a question of its own. But I think it is fair to have different alternative approaches to the legislative initiatives on anti-virus, which are proposed, to bring it to Parliament without stretching. Play hide-and-seek with yourself, I'm sorry, it just doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U460	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U461	Thank you, Mr President. In the Committee on Social Affairs, we heard that the government did not support this draft because they considered the proposal of the Fatherland too narrow. They plan to come up with a much broader approach and this broader approach is described in the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases, where, in fact, just as snails were pulled out of the house, this house is somewhere empty and we do not know exactly what it is going to do with it. They have this wonderful view. Whether it will or will never materialise will likely be shown to us by the future. However, the government was only there to compensate for sick days. You have just explained the question of Helmen Hunt, but please explain to the coalition ambassadors that the first objective here is to test ourselves so that we can deal with prevention and the sign of danger.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U462	Thank you. Yeah, that's true. That is the first goal. This gap, which in January the officials brought as a reason that it is not possible to impose a cross-check. We already wrote the draft decision on the test in the government there with a pen, it was already there, and then at the same time there was a reason that, no, it cannot be done in this form. I asked why it is not possible to do so, the crisis has lasted for nine months, and if there is such a legal gap, the law must be amended. They said yes, we're working on it. Now we see that it has taken months to deal with it. But I have to be honest with you, there's one thing about how at law level it's solved, but it's only a tool, it's only about closing a loophole. It's not at law level to decide what time and what people are being tested for, what the virus is. This particular decision-making responsibility is still the responsibility of the government or the delegated authority of the government. However, I would like to point out that this draft has not arisen from emptiness, but in February at least two reports from the scientific councils have given an unambiguous message that there is a need to introduce non-discipline testing. And in this situation, I find the Prime Minister's position, which is incomprehensible or inconvenient, that this cannot be done, by referring to the human rights argument. In this sense, too, in terms of the position of the government, when you read the government's view of this bill, it is somewhat dim that, on the one hand, it is said that it is not possible to do this in itself in relation to human rights, but the way in which it is done has been developed much more widely by the government. One argument in two can be competent, but not both at the same time. This is such an elementary basic rhetoric course, which now runs counter to the general government approach. You can't get these things like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U463	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U464	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good Urmas! In my opinion, why you voted against the previous draft actually supported it in order to reject it at first reading. Why aren't you and your party supporting full medical benefits for the first day of the Corona patients and their close contacts? There are no good arguments against that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U465	Thank you. A good rhetorical question, Mr Ossinovski, to move away from the issue when we are talking about introducing a general test. The Postimees wrote that Ossinovski and Ansip are Estonia's largest, most skilled blanks. In the case of the previous draft, our line is actually, I can tell the questioner, consistent. We did not support this model in the previous government in terms of both economic considerations and the substantive implementation logic to which this burden lies in the implementation of this draft. And we're not turning the page because we're just in opposition and we're making popular decisions. The Fatherland also makes or expresses the necessary decisions in the opposition, which may not be popular.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U466	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U467	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! I have a question that voters actually ask very often. Is the bill going through or not going through, one thing, but why has the current government not put in place an emergency situation? I would have dared to say that if we had a special situation, we would have gotten the infection rates and all these other things down. And the question is simple for people: is it the lobby of tourism companies, or is it also the problem of making further payments then?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U468	Thank you. This is an extremely wide range of topics opened by a good questioner. The honest answer to why there is no emergency situation is, in fact, the clear approach of the Prime Minister and also the political rhetoric that the country must be kept as open as possible. And this political rhetoric does not really coincide with the introduction of an emergency legal regime. And here I want to pay tribute to the Centre Party, George Ratas. The Centre Party also expressed its sympathy with Mr Karilaid, in fact, to the fact that the legal regime of the emergency situation is an appropriate method of preventing the virus in an emergency situation. I would like to say even more, I think it is also a constitutional method. We have now come to a situation where, instead of getting out of the acute crisis in the emergency regime on the basis of a clear monocrat model of governance, we have given additional responsibilities to the person in charge of the emergency situation as well as the powers to exercise it over the authorities, we have now chosen the logic of some of the orwellian emergency situation in Estonia. The Prime Minister points out that we actually have an emergency situation, but we do not have an emergency situation in the legal sense either. It is and it isn't. War is peace. And what does that mean? This means that we have actually taken on, for example, the competences of the various institutions, the powers of the police, the competences of the Rescue Board, to give the Rescue Board police tasks, the police are dealing with a health crisis, etc., and so on, to sign up for such things in the ordinary laws. I think that, in itself, when we talk about the governance and responsibility of a state governed by law, it is much more vague and the logic of the state's functioning blurring, that, as a matter of principle, we may have an eternal or, in terms of a legal regime, an ethereal special situation, but the legal framework for when it ends, and the granting of powers when it begins, will become very foggy. In the event of an emergency at this stage of the crisis, we have also seen the confusion that has arisen, for example, with tests. In the previous stage of virus circulation, there was, for example, a member of the government who carried out the duties of head of emergency work and was involved in the acquisition of personal protective equipment. Yeah, there was a specific piece of work to do. Similarly, today we have seen such a risk of a governance scheme in relation to the organisation of testing. On Monday we discussed this in the Commission, we were invited officials, it turned out that the general head of the testing organisation in Estonia is a very sympathetic head of department of the Ministry of Social Affairs. I asked you how you were driving. We have a large committee, we have a whole room full of people, we run it through this committee. And I asked that if you are a leader and the Minister of Health has said that another project manager must be appointed, what do you think this project manager will do as a leader? Well, it hasn't been decided yet, and it can't be said yet what he's going to do. In short, the chain of command cannot be in a crisis, let me quote here Lennart Meri, who used words at the fifth anniversary conference of the Estonian Constitution, namely, in terms of the chain of command of the military crisis, stretch like a bull's drool. I'm sorry! And the same question concerns the issue that was raised with hospital leaders. A serious question in relation to the fact that when we saw the most critical stage of hospital congestion, where it is also necessary to direct staff from one section to another in different parts of the hospital's work, there are no doubt rigid limits to the tasks of a contract of employment that people have to perform on a route. And there was also a request from the hospital executives, I would like to mention Dr. Ralf Allikaveed, for example, that it should be more flexible. This flexibility would, in fact, have been allowed by the legal regime of the emergency situation, which specifically says that people can be directed to different parts of the work under exceptional circumstances. This is precisely a legitimate measure to resolve the issue. So, in that sense, the point made by the Prime Minister or the logic of the government coalition that a special situation means only that soldiers can be used on the street for more than 30 days, that is, in reality, if we take apart the catalogue of competences given by the current law, it is not true. The key issue still comes down to the fact that the special situation allows for such a model of governance in a different, very different sector. And I don't think it's point to be afraid of such a model of leadership. This particular situation is clearly legally framed and subject to judicial review. Here it is attempted to give the misleading impression that there is a real coup of power or something else that an emergency situation is being declared. This is a health emergency, there is a clear framework, dates and times for which it is valid. And there is no point in taking leadership decisions in a hesitant way. The crisis is making mistakes, we know that all governance mistakes are being made in all crises, it is inevitable in crises, but the most critical resource in resolving these crises is time. Time cannot be regained, as we have seen in several phases of this crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U469	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U470	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I have also been trying here for almost a month to find out from both the Prime Minister and Minister Kiige why it is still not advisable to take these borders under strict corona control, to talk about demagogy, how the country cannot be locked down, etc., etc. Is it really the government's failure here that they still cannot control the situation and do not want to assume any new responsibilities in relation to borders? Or is it simply a political confrontation to oppose the previous government and perhaps more conservative political parties calling for stricter corona control at the border? And if this is a political confrontation, I believe this is not the place to play political games. Why do you still not suggest that the stricter control of corona at borders be imposed, which is actually supported by your draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U471	Thank you. It is also incomprehensible to me, which are the motives. I very much want to hope that there really is no political inspiration behind this to oppose it. Because this bill is not a day-to-day bill; it is not party policy. The motivation behind this draft, or the examples of how it is used at national borders, is that of other European countries. I do not think that we have any doubt about looking at Germany's competence in science-based and evidence-based virus control, certainly the best scientific expertise in the world, and Germany is using it entirely in this way. The question now is that we have to understand. I understand the desire to see why this bill was held in custody for several months, that perhaps the crisis has already eased in some way. Yes, the British strain has come here on a massive scale, we have missed this obstruction well. But now it's possible to stick this bill in a drawer somewhere. Unfortunately, I say frankly, the crisis has not resolved, as I pointed out in previous examples. The crisis is moving into a new and more complex phase, and we must therefore also apply these forms of work, methods that are evidence-based, which are really for people, rather than, on the contrary, they create clarity. And I would like to emphasise once again that they are also creating clarity in the context of cross-border mobility. When we are also talking in the next phase about the humanitarian crisis that has been going on for months, which concerns temporary workers who are in Finland. These people have not been able to come to see their family because they have had to earn bread in Finland, otherwise they would not be able to return to Finland. In such a situation, I think that the starting point for resolving this issue, also with transnational agreement, is to try to offer confidence measures to the Finnish state as well, how it can safely organise the cross-border movement of people. I think that this introduction of the principle of over-the-counter testing would certainly also be the provider of an important argument for these negotiations. So let us think that we do not have the time to play such political games. This is the moment for us to at least give the government a chance. Maybe the government doesn't want to use it for any reason, but at least this tool is there. And I would point out that, when we talk about some radically mutated virus spreading here, in this case, in this logic, this principle of over-testing is certainly much more appropriate than the principle of complete closure of borders.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U472	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U473	Thank you very much, manager. Urmas, very precisely, you have described the situation we have. And if we already know from the media that the third wave of the evil virus is collapsing its horns somewhere beyond its borders, then we have to think about it, that's very right. You have referred well to exactly how vague it is in the description of the current situation, how hazy a management scheme we have here, how they are currently trying to create these heads of work in steps, and the concrete management is still blurred. Of course, I could have asked you this proverb says that it's good to fish in the swampy water, that's what the fish they're fishing for. But in fact, you already said in the previous answer that you don't know what kind of fish it is. It's incomprehensible what a fish is that they can catch in such a mess of water. But the question is very simple. If we take such a situation as to assume that the government still wishes to understand this need for over-the-counter testing in an emergency situation, would it be possible to do so without introducing this law, without dealing with it, if the real situation had actually been declared and defined? Would that be possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U474	Thank you. Let's just say yes, it would be possible to introduce it, but then with logic such as diagnosis or additional quarantine, that means that in that case it would be reimbursed by the sickness fund with the logic of the sick days. Our model takes that responsibility away. And we can discuss whether this is appropriate. Hypothetically, for example, a person who is paid for two weeks may also arise, then it is enough for him to simply visit abroad once, return again for two weeks or ten days, and this would certainly not just be fair in terms of the logic of the days reimbursed by the sickness fund. Now what concerns this crisis management model. Yes, our leadership model is currently insane, and in this sense it is more dangerous that, as an old officer of Leo, this crazy model of leadership knows what I'm talking about. Indeed, in Parliament's proceedings, we have a complete blurring of the responsibility of the entire model of crisis management, the model of developing policies for civilian crisis management and control. Indeed, it is a question of choice whether the centre of resolution is the Prime Minister alone or not, or whether he is a minister in this field. I would point out, for example, that the National Defence Act is clearly fixed: the solution to the military crisis is managed by the Prime Minister. And now we are being presented with a note, very symptomatic of the current crisis management situation, a bill that states that the management of these crises, which are important, is being run by the government in a collegiate way. What does that mean? The whole government is in charge. But I am of the opinion that in this acute crisis phase, the basic assumption is that there is a monocracy of leadership responsibility. Crisis resolution cannot be managed in a crowded struggle. I think it is appropriate for Parliament to seriously delve into this draft law and to make these choices in such a way that the crisis still has one leader who needs to resolve this crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U475	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U476	Thank you. A third wave of pandemics is developing in the world. The Prime Minister, however, repeats that the virus is spreading in families. We do not have an emergency situation because it is not necessary because we have a substantive emergency situation and we can do everything we need in this substantive emergency situation. There are several charter flights from Estonia to Turkey, where it is known that the epidemic situation is very poor. We can't cancel these flights because we don't have an emergency. But we have a substantive emergency that won't allow such things to be banned. Is there anything in this dark situation other than the unwillingness of the government or the unwillingness of the Prime Minister to take responsibility for it, and that is why he blurs it, and the result is a selective rule of law in which no one is responsible, but, without anyone knowing, the riot police appear before the Riigikogu without action?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U477	Yes, I think that this is certainly a threat to such selective application of the law and, as a consequence, to selective liability, and, worst of all, to selective decision-making on practical matters. It's really problematic. I also looked at it with surprise when the Minister for the Interior or the Prime Minister says when there is, rightly or not, in front of Parliament, it is a question in itself, people, and the corona rules must, of course, be observed, but there is an event in which the police are present, surely this is a very big event, that we do not know anything. I am not paralleling these people, not at all, who have now expressed their attitudes in protests. But let's just take the logic that if Prime Minister Ansip had said at Bronze Night that I didn't know anything, the police would be dealing with me, it wouldn't concern me, it couldn't say such a thing. If there is a real crisis event that is important, then, in the case of important issues, in fact, the Heads of State must have information and decisions must also be taken, it is in no way a police intervention. There is no doubt that decisions cannot be made on the surface of an individual case, it is the resolution of the police case itself, the issue of operational tactics, but there is no point in sneaking away from responsibility on substantive issues. That's not the solution. Of course, the emergency regime is designed to have a clear, sole responsibility for resolving the crisis. And this responsibility is also balanced with powers of power. That's the way it's supposed to be. But right now, it will remain on the surface of a number of different institutions, and then it will be convenient to put these decisions aside somehow, as we now see in this bill. Just two months, I don't know whose drawer that bill was in. It was in the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, it was in the government drawer, it was in a drawer somewhere. But it is not possible to regain time from the crisis. It's a naive idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U478	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U479	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! Now I'm based on what's been said. When the Prime Minister has said that we have a basically special situation, that in fact means that we have a normal situation. It can't be that I'm almost pregnant, which means I'm not. It is the Health Board, not the Prime Minister, that announces the medical emergency. Am I right to understand that, under normal circumstances, all these restrictions, which the Prime Minister has signed, are quite controversial, and that people, including businesses, can bring them to justice?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U480	Thank you. No, I do not believe that the current decisions that have been taken are in any way unlawful, I do not make such a statement. They're acting under government orders. But, indeed, the question is that if there is a particular right, if there is a critical legal regime, then there is no doubt that the head of the emergency is the case and that the decisions will also reach this level nationwide. In the current resolution of the crisis, yes, it could be argued that these decisions should be made at a significantly lower level. This poses a real threat to the multiplicity of decision-making competences. What did we see? We also saw this when we remember, for example, the controversy about the use of AstraZeneca, the first injection to people under 60 years of age. While there were many communicators, there was no communication manager at the emergency stage. The Auditor General wrote to the Minister of Health and Labour about this, pointed out that there must be one person in charge of vaccination who has the authority to make a clear decision on whether or not to do so. And likewise, there must be a communication manager who communicates it out. But then there was in every corner a person who said and very vaguely, let's say that all things were then that we recommend and may consider and may be reasonable and may not be reasonable. It is one thing to speak as academically as it is after the parliamentary elections in Israel when the government is put together to discuss academically. But here we are dealing with tens of thousands of people, here we are dealing with thousands, thousands of people in the organization who have to make decisions with vague communication. In fact, there are several sources of communication, they compete with each other. Clarity must be created in these matters. This clarity is, in fact, the most operational solution for exiting and managing this crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U481	A procedural question, Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U482	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a procedural remark or say, I don't know, a procedural problem. This concerns equal treatment. People are different, and some people have speech problems like me. I envy my colleague, Mrs Puustusmaa, who will be able to say a great deal in this minute. I'm gonna make it half the time. I don't know how to reflect this in the Rules of Procedure, but I noticed that a cripple notices another cripple. I'm not the only person in this room who's having speech problems, and I can't come with you at the speed of speech. It is simply such a protocol for the sake of a note.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U483	Thank you. Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U484	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! First of all, I would like to thank you for repeating these very important principles of leadership written in bloody letters throughout human history. It really is. I was worried during this discussion that this crisis and dealing with it will provide clues in case we are threatened by a much more dangerous, much faster and more fatal crisis. Could there be a situation, then, that we have a crisis, but, formally, we do not have one, but not so much? Is my interpretation too arbitrary, or should we now draw the right conclusions in this crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U485	Yeah. I think that you, General, have a very relevant diagnosis that there is no difference between the types of crisis in itself, say, the management task or the ability to make decisions in crisis at a higher level. The health crisis is being managed poorly or is being managed worse than the military crisis or the crisis that has arisen due to the internal security crisis or the ecological disaster. After all, the reality is to find the moment when a decision is needed. And here, in a democratic country, it is not possible to lead side by side. Let's say that in the event of a military crisis, the various authorities, the military advisor, the Commander of the Defence Forces, in the event of a health crisis, the management of the Health Board give their input, but the final decision must still be taken by the person who holds the responsibility for crisis management. It cannot be replaced by collegial action. It's very important. I was just going through some documents. There was controversy here in the first phase of this crisis, when there was also the announcement of an emergency situation last year on 12 March, then the Health Board gave an assessment, which was the widespread spread of the virus, marked by different traffic lights logic, in Estonia, that its probability was low. It was a decision for the government, but the government gets different information, different expertise, and it's impossible to distance itself. Decisions must still be taken in one direction or another and the decision-making authority or, in a specific case, the non-decision-making authority is responsible. The Prime Minister has proposed, in his own right, that it is very grateful to have a dialogue with Parliament on the functioning of society in a virus situation, and I consider it important that Parliament gives its input, and that is one input from one of Parliament's political forces. I am sure that we will also be able, if the Chairman of the Riigikogu coordinates, to put together, perhaps on a wider platform, common positions on what measures would be appropriate to control the virus in the current situation. Or Parliament does not have to develop its own proposals at a technical level on more nuanced issues, on which Parliament considers that the government must find solutions or propose alternative decisions on how to move forward. The crisis returns itself every morning. This is also the logic of crises.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U486	I see, Peter Ernits, that you are using such a very interesting solution, I have never seen such a solution, frankly. I think we're gonna make it. A procedural question, Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U487	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! In fact, it happened that at first there was a procedural question when my colleague Lotman complained that he spoke more slowly. But I wanted to point out procedurally that some of my colleagues have a much more agile finger. For example, Mr Kruus, who is now a minister, and I was very jealous and tried to learn from him. The differences are enriching. But it was a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U488	Thank you. Peter Ernits, please, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U489	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. It's about the Health Board's assessments. The rapporteur said that when the emergency situation was announced, the threat assessment was not much, but now that special units and dogs were brought out, we heard this morning that the threat assessment was extremely serious and had to use such extraordinary forces. Are these Health Board assessments even adequate?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U490	Thank you. With reference to the foregoing, I would say that man is the sum of his weaknesses. Even all the weaknesses we have make us the person we are. There's nothing wrong with it, separately. Now, as far as the specific risk analyses carried out by the Health Board are concerned, I do not think that I have any reason to question them on the basis of specific cases. But I certainly expect that, if decisions are taken on these grounds, they should also be available to Members of Parliament under legislative supervision, should these Members be interested. And it is certainly important in the rule of law that we understand the level of decision being made, and we understand who is the decision-maker, when was decided and must be fixed. Because what is the question? Also in the case of vaccination on Monday, the Auditor General pointed out that the vaccination plan, the vaccination plan in itself, has not been confirmed by anyone in Estonia. The document shall bear the date of 19 January. It is important to know this because, in reality, we understand that no one has confirmed it, but on the basis of this, the country is conducting the most important mass operation involving the whole population and relating to the enormous consequences for public health, for the national economy, for the functioning of society as a whole. I asked the Prime Minister about this. The Prime Minister said we've confirmed the paper. It's not good paper, we'll change it. Surely it is wise to change when a change is needed. And on this unconfirmed paper, at the same time, the government has made changes. In fact, they are not contained in the paper itself. In short, it is now very interesting to observe how the chain of command of decisions runs on the basis of this document. This document, the vaccination plan, only talks about the fact that there is one commission that carries out vaccination in Estonia. In the same way, the question is what immediately arises, where a decision is taken on which vaccine to vaccinate, who is not, how these decisions move in a clearly fixed chain, which was also brought to the attention of the Auditor General. And also, for example, the definition of priority groups or front-line groups. This interesting information came out that the vaccination is actually led by a general manager; according to the current logic, it should be the head of the department of the Ministry of Social Affairs. In fact, these lists of groups are established by the Security Department of the State Chancellery, he draws up these lists, but again, on which basis. Undoubtedly, when we talk about the economy, for example, it is not a joke, is it? One sector is told you're getting vaccines, another sector is told you can't. How can these issues be viewed lawfully, transparently, how can they be challenged if necessary, after all, they concern the functioning of companies, organisations, economic activities. In these matters, we do not have an alternative if we have to create clear chains of command and the rule of law, as your reference was to this second circle of problems, questions are set by rules and rules have to come from who has what decision-making powers. Then it will also be possible to monitor, you will be able to challenge it, and then it will also be possible to actually realise responsibility and ensure clarity for the functioning of all participants in this major operation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U491	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Mrs Luck Pillaku, member of the Social Affairs Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U492	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft amendment to the Health Insurance Act 330 on 22 March. And just like a moment ago, Urmas Reinsalu, on behalf of the initiators of the draft, presented the content and purpose of the draft. At the meeting of the Commission, Ülle Jordan, chief specialist at the Health System Development Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, announced that the Government of the Republic discussed this draft on 11 March and decided not to support the proposed draft in this form. While the government agreed that the regulation of compensation in the event of quarantine for insured persons needs to be adjusted, it is in a comprehensive solution, not in the way that the draft Group of Isamaa has proposed only a partial solution concerning the regulation of entry. The Government has also submitted to the Riigikogu its solution to clarify the procedure for the payment of sickness benefits in the event of quarantine and this is provided for in draft law 347. A few more questions were raised in the Commission. Helmen Kütt asked, for example, that if this bill provides that a person who, when crossing a state border, refuses to take a test and then is ordered to be self-insulated, it is as if he is not entitled to health insurance benefits. He wanted to know whether the health insurance allowance would be paid to everyone on the draft submitted by the government. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs replied that according to the Government's draft, only sick and close contacts would receive sickness benefits, in all other cases, i.e. no compensation for self-insulation or restriction of freedom of movement. The Commission then took procedural decisions and decided as follows: Propose the amendment of the Health Insurance Act on the agenda of 330 plenary sessions, including by 13 April. This proposal was supported by all members of the Commission. Secondly, the Commission proposed to reject the draft at the plenary session. There were 6 members of the Commission in favour of this proposal and 2 against it. And appoint the board of directors to waitress Happy Hill. This proposal was also supported by all members of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U493	Thank you, good waitress. You have at least one question. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U494	Thank you. Honourable representative of the Commission. I have a question about the Commission's work and specifically about this draft and also about the previous draft tabled by the Social Democrats. I understand that the joint wish of the government coalition and of all our political parties is that the drafts relating to the COVID and relating to this crisis be dealt with as quickly and as quickly as possible. Today, see, we are dealing with drafts that the government coalition has presented at such a rate that one week we will do two readings. But, unfortunately, this bill has been standing for months, and it is only now that it has reached its first reading. How are the drafts being processed in the Committee on Social Affairs? How do you choose what order and how you process? Like in Soviet times, there was a general order, a prerogative and out of line, or is there some other logic you have? Can we get an overview of that? Can you comment?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U495	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for that question, good questioner. This does not concern the content of this draft, but the Committee on Social Affairs is dealing with the drafts exactly as in any other committee. The chairman of the committee shall propose the approval of the agenda, the inclusion of drafts, and the Commission shall either endorse or reject the proposal. I just think it is necessary to mention that, for example, when we discussed this draft on 22 March, your group's ambassador did not propose that this draft be put on the plenary agenda earlier.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U496	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U497	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I'm listening and wondering what these answers are. The Prime Minister has been addressing the opposition all along, especially recently, and has said that you should work along, make proposals, we will resolve this crisis together, but yet we can see that absolutely all the proposals made by the opposition have been rejected by a hundred percent by the government and the coalition. Perhaps it would be easier to resolve this situation if the government and the coalition gave all the opposition ambassadors a list of proposals we can make, and then life would be like a flower. You, too, could vote on the proposals of the opposition ambassadors. What do you think? That would be great for the coalition and the government, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U498	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good questioner, for this question. But here I have to make you clear, because this talk, because the coalition does not support the proposals launched by the opposition, is not quite true. I recall the law on psychiatric assistance, which was a draft initiated by the Social Democrats, which was supported by the coalition, and which has now been adopted by the Riigikogu. And even today, if I am not mistaken now, the number 300 is the Family Benefits Act, which has been presented by the Fatherland and which, in the same way, the Ministry of Social Affairs has made two important additions in there, I hope, will receive the approval of the entire Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U499	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U500	Thank you, Good luck, for presenting the debate on this draft. We have still worked well together, we have worked well with you in the Nõmme administration and elsewhere. But I have a question for you personally about how you view it, because I did not understand it in the committee debate. Is it reasonable, then, to apply a cross-border test in the current catalogue of arguments that I considered reasonable to put forward, or not? What's your view?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U501	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Urmas, for this question. Of course, good cooperation is always good. But when I now listened to your report and tried to catch the place where this bill says they're gonna say they're gonna test it, it's not really in this bill. You want to regulate this with the reimbursement of quarantine days, but while the person says that I came from abroad, I do not want to take the test and I do not want this compensation, it is not, in fact, the draft that you presented, either. I support the need to test. However, I also support the proposal made by the Government concerning the reimbursement of quarantine days: that it concerns not only those who enter the country, but still the whole country and everyone who has to comply with the rules.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U502	A procedural question, Priit Onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U503	Thank you. Even a procedural remark. Mrs Luck Pillak referred here to the nuance that Bill 300 has been initiated by the Fatherland. No, the draft law on family benefits 300 has been initiated by the Government of Jüri Ratas and the Minister of Population Riina Solman, and this is the draft government that the Social Affairs Committee decided to send to first reading, then withdrew again, and then the new government, led by Kaja Kallas, through Signe Riisalo, has really improved it, and today it will come into action.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U504	Thank you. I assure you that draft 300 has been initiated by the Government of the Republic and we also have on today's agenda, if I am not mistaken, item 17. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U505	[[Remote connection]] Good manager and waitress! I'm not a member of the Social Affairs Committee. But if you were to describe what quality this bill is that it doesn't qualify in your mind if you were to evaluate the five-ball system? And what are its most substantial problems?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U506	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good questioner, for this question. I support the comprehensive solution and it has also been submitted to the Riigikogu. I think it makes sense not only to look at one nuanced problem but to solve the whole problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U507	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U508	Thank you. The crisis is the whole thing, Luck. And we must resolve this in this logic in order to cover all aspects of this crisis. I did not say that this draft contains all this governance path so that we can get to the implementation of the model of over-the-counter testing. What I didn't understand was that you supported the whole solution. Do you think, Luck, a comprehensive solution, or a government approach, will allow us to reach a system of over-the-counter testing in Estonia without stretching?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U509	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good Urmas! Just as I told you before, the same bill does not apply a non-spoken test in Estonia. So, yes, I hope that draft 347, where this change will be included in the broader approach, at some point we will be able to come to this debate and then we will really be able to look at this crisis and solutions more comprehensively, just as you yourself have pointed out.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U510	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U511	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Commission. I don't understand that logic very well. You say that this bill will only solve some of the problems and there will be another one that offers a comprehensive solution. But if this bill solves this problem, which is also covered by this second bill, they will not conflict. Right now, when you say that there is no need to adopt this bill, it only means delaying time. And this bill in no way prevents the adoption of a comprehensive approach. Or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U512	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr Lotman, for this question. In the Committee on Social Affairs, the majority decided to propose that this draft be rejected, and today we have such a proposal on our table. You can choose whether you support it or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U513	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. And now the question is whether we are opening negotiations. Looking at the story, it's a wish. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Priit Sibula, representative of the Isamaa Group, for the Riigikogu speech chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U514	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu, for this opportunity to speak here! I think Parliament got a much better and more meaningful overview of this draft than the Commission, when the sitting was held there, I can say this both as a member of the group and as a member of the Commission. It seems to me that in this Chamber we understood even better what is in this draft than the government, because the representative of the Commission spoke on several occasions that there was no objective of over-the-counter testing. Of course it doesn't! I think it would be pretty ridiculous if we in Parliament were to cut into the law the idea of over-testing the Estonian state. It must be clearly the authority of the government and the government to do it. But we see and we know we're in corona chaos. We've got tests going on the way they do, and there's a problem with vaccination, and there's not much of a vaccine. If we look back at the period when we started this bill, then in some ways things have gotten better. Government representatives, ministers are trying to get people to like them more and more. When we look at last week and the week in which we are discussing possible exit plans from the crisis, the White Paper, the relaxation, there was a clear indication that we were in danger, we were in the red zone when Henry Kattago introduced the White Paper yesterday. So, unfortunately, there will be no easing in this form, as much as we would like. And therefore, it is, of course, very reasonable to deal with these different ideas and their plans, so that we can at one point give society more freedoms again, and testing at borders is one such opportunity. This bill provides that those people who refuse to test cannot go into quarantine, then, of course, society should not have to bear any additional costs for these people. This is the way that one opposition party can do through law to manage this current crisis in any way, that is what the government is not going to succeed well. Maybe it's a preventive measure, a preliminary warning for people to test, monitor and be at home. This measure, in order to carry out cross-border testing in order not to infect society, has been recommended by the Scientific Advisory Board at several meetings in February. But as has been said many times, the government has not considered it reasonable. The Commission was indeed talking about the fact that the government seems to have found some sort of comprehensive solution and that the Fatherland is dealing with half of the solution. This whole solution is that we know that it is as if hidden in draft 347 or the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases. Last Wednesday night, the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee sent me a letter in disorientation or clear understanding, where he actually separated it from 347 and then brought out the elements important to the coalition in the draft health services management law, which we will soon be resolving here. But this problem, which, as if there is a comprehensive solution, I do not know when Parliament is going to resolve, is not said about it anywhere. Today I also asked the head of government, and there are no real answers to that. So my big and deep request is that, if you heard this debate here and understood why it was necessary, it would obviously be absurd and wrong to reject this draft at first reading. I ask you to support the completion of the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U515	Thank you very much. Any more calls? No, it's not. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed to reject the draft 330 at first reading, and we will start preparing this vote. Can we go to the vote? (It answers: "Yes! ") I shall put to the vote the draft proposal of the commission to reject it at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U516	With the result of 58, 28 votes against and 0 abstentions, the draft has been rejected at first reading and falls outside the procedure. That concludes the sixth item.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U517	We will move on to the seventh item, which is the first reading of the draft Penal Code Amendment Act 331 initiated by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by a member of the Riigikogu, Paul Puustusmaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U518	Thank you very much, manager. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear friends here and there on the screen, in the hall and outside the hall! Here scientists have just announced their recent major research, according to which the human brain is most excited and toned by thrills of joy. In this connection, I immediately came to the head of an association. I really like the way the Fatherland does its business here in this hall. When ladies and gentlemen come to this remote control, for example, Tarmo Kruusimäe is happy to welcome everyone: the good guardians of the Republic! Positively, toningly. Or Urmas Reinsalu will come and say, "Good friends! Whether it is here or in the Commission, it is very positive. And that's good. It tones, it helps to think. And if I could rely entirely on this fresh knowledge or on the research that scientists have identified, I would also like to cry out joyfully and positively in the examination of this current draft, hoping that it will contribute very positively to the development of this draft. But now it is a problem that, as a national conservationist, we are very good shamans and we have very well anticipated different draft laws and their [implementation] results, also analysed what happened here in the hall today. There is nothing surprising for us here and, in fact, there is no surprise in bill 331, which I am trying to bring to you here, dear colleagues here- and there on the screen. I could exclaim to you, together, what are we doing here? You know what we do. We're in lawmaking. This is one very important and good thing. It creates order, it creates organization. And there is one special thing about this legislation: it is based on certain very specific rules. One particular rule for us is the Constitution. The Constitution is the ultimate law. It is probably not even necessary to be a lawyer, because probably all people have heard that no law, no regulation, no other document, must be an act contrary to the Constitution. Despite the fact that we in this Riigikogu for days are adopting directives and regulations coming from Brussels and Strasbourg, without any understanding of what is going to happen there, we are adopting them on a massive scale, we still believe in the Constitution itself. Recently, it was the 100th anniversary of the Constitution. You know how good it is to hear how good this constitution is, how unwavering it is. Nothing has changed about him, he's like an iron rod around us, protecting us from all bad legal regulations. Now I tell you, good friends, it's wrong too. Our constitution has been shot in the hole, full of holes, wormed. And this has not been done by the good people who adopted it in 1992, or by the Constitutional Assembly, who approved or drafted our constitution, they did a very good law. But these later, these judges, the creators of justice, who have been sitting here in this Chamber, have chewed this constitution with holes in the way that the people speak and the press writes that what is this law, the language of the law, which is the language of lawyers, this language of birds and butterflies, which no one understands. I will read you a quote that characterizes what exists and is based on how our legislators and advocates of the law have viewed our constitution through interpretation and what they have done with the Constitution. Quote: "Everyone has the right to concentrate in non-profit organisations and associations. Only Estonian citizens may belong to political parties. " Yes, indeed, I quoted the Constitution to you. Do you think this is the norm? Unfortunately, it doesn't. Because we're going to adopt one of the lower acts, we're going to break the law of the party and we're going to read it, I think it was § 5, which says that non-citizens can hear it too. So, what's going on? The same classic thing has happened that our constitution is being chewed and changed by various interpretations of its norms into nullity or inability to work. Because some lower act regulates it differently than the Constitution provides. The Ülo Vooglaid has once said very wise words that we must be honest with people and, if we want to change the constitution, we must honestly say to the people: we want to change, this legal relationship is no longer working, we will reverse it, and then we will put another norm to the referendum. For example, in this same example, it could be said that political parties may belong to everyone who lives here, and we put it into the Constitutional norm, we put it to the vote on the Constitution, the people can decide. Or that the family consists of boxes and cats, but not of man and woman and his children, ascendant and descending offspring. Let's be honest about this. But no, we're doing things like this around the corner, as long as people don't know what's going on. I'll read you another quote: "It's forbidden to /... / parties whose /... / action is /... / contrary to the law providing for criminal liability. " Period. Where did it come from? The Constitution. What does this rule say in a constitution that ends with a point? He says that parties who have committed a crime and whose conduct is contrary to the law providing for criminal liability are prohibited. But what about us? We've got them moving on. Not only will they continue to act, but they will also be able to rule. How such a fact affects our social order, our attitude toward our country and our government is not likely to be difficult for us to imagine. The fundamental division between the people and the country comes from where such things are carried out. I was able to study law at the university under the hands of someone named Igor Gräzin. You all know him, you all know him. True, my studio started in Soviet times, but I can say I graduated with a diploma with three puppies on it, so at a better time. With regard to Igor, we had a very respectable attitude at the university, which is why Igor Gräzin is the youngest law professor in the Soviet Union, wise as the devil. Not knowing whether it was true or not, it made us proud and it was good for us to learn under him, because his lectures were interesting, meaningful, and sometimes funny. They weren't boring, they were nice. Igor Gräzin has also been sitting in this hall. And at one point, he, who has strong legal knowledge, was very well hit by what's going on here. He caught it, which he probably knew earlier, which really means the Constitution, what is the meaning of the regulations governing the governance of the state, where parties, parties have been given extraordinary power and power. They are non-profit organisations, like housing associations, but they are granted a state right of responsibility and have a special law, a party law. This means that political parties must be treated with extraordinarily careful and extraordinarily precise; there cannot be any slippage, because the fish is starting to rot out of its head. Parties that run the country, if they move wrong, against our wishes and laws, it also rots our country. And here comes the attitude of the people. In short, going back to Igor Gräzin. Gräzin, being in this hall, discovered at a good moment that some strange metamorphosis was taking place in relation to laws and constitutions. In 2014, I believe that he was probably also in contact with his own party, including with the leaders, he discovered that for some reason the principle, with which political parties were given considerable attention and the sword of Damocles was placed on their head long ago, was suddenly lost in the Penal Code, which provided for the possibility of the party having committed a crime according to the Constitution. I even quite sincerely believe that he paid attention to this fact even when certain political circles began to implement the matter, but, well, probably, his position in his party at that time was such that it was not reasonably possible to block it. We can only now think about why the composition and government of Riigikogu XII was then the first and the second government of Rõvas went that way, that they decided to eliminate this rule from the Penal Code, which warned and kept parties from committing crimes. However, in any case, the fact is that the 2014 Penal Code reform, which entered into force in 2015, ceased to be the possibility that the party that committed the crime could be eradicated. He also addressed the Chancellor of Justice separately, asking what it was, how it was possible. How is it possible that § 64 of the Constitution provides that the powers of a member of the Riigikogu will end before the deadline when the sentence condemning him enters into force, the same rules are repeated by the Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu. This is an unambiguous rule that precludes the participation of a legal person, a party convicted of a crime, in the work of the Riigikogu. Estonia's legal order no longer contains it for some reason. I, too, later, after getting to it, made inquiries to lawyers and received an answer, which is very simple and logical. Indeed, by the law amending the Penal Code and other related acts, it was decided to repeal § 46 of the General Penal Code "mandatory winding-up of a legal person" and consequently to repeal all the paragraphs of the Special Part of the Penal Code, and there are sanctions for the compulsory winding-up of a legal person. The aforementioned Act entered into force on 1 January 2015 and by this amendment the legislator waived the power delegated to it by Article 48 (3) of the Constitution to determine the criminal offences for which the court was ordered to punish a legal person, including a political party, by a compulsory winding-up, as a result of a criminal investigation. A conscious choice, a fully aware choice. When this reform was carried out, it was justified by the fact that you see, people, that the forced termination is not by its very nature lost, that we still have him in civil law. And with it again they deceived the people, double-crossed the people. First of all, one of the rules of the Constitution was essentially rendered incapacitated, the other being that it is really quite difficult for a simple person to explain what the difference is between civil law, criminal law and public law. All these procedures follow a different path and, after all, in the case of criminal penalties, civil proceedings do not allow the law to be understood or the code of civil procedure to be used. And there will be contradictions, different contradictions. At the end of the day, the question is, "Wait a while, whether we will not be able to convict a misbehaved legal person, including a party, after all, we have a law on the general part of the Civil Code, we also have a party law. Once again, these are civil laws. Yes, indeed, we have a formal opportunity left. But with this formal opportunity, it is now the fact that, even at this point in time, we will be able to carry out liquidation only and only if, for example, a party or a legal person literally carries out a coup, or if the Government of the Republic takes this step to the court in order to put an end to a party that has behaved improperly. But you know that's impossible. It's a formal rule, which, although prescribed by some way, is essentially impossible. It can never be that a minister or government is turning to a court to dismantle a party. Then it's just a political game. In principle, we also have the possibility that the court will do so on its own initiative, but I cannot imagine that either, especially in a situation where these penal sanctions have been deliberately removed from the Penal Code. And I stress: we do not know for what reason. We may think about what happened in 2013, 2014, that the political circles saw that this sword needed to be taken from its head. As I said, this is a very unfair and very wrong signal. And that is why the Conservative Party has come up with a proposal to reinstate this situation in order, in a sense, to create a certain level of discipline in our legislation. That is also why we have come up with this bill. The government, in its opinion on the same draft, has said that it has been very clear that, by its very nature, we are not doing anything new. Moreover, we are, in fact, only restoring the situation where we are introducing these necessary general and specific rules, these necessary types of punishment, so that forced termination is simply possible. In fact, since this is a first reading, it is, in principle, possible at any moment when we have introduced these standards to clarify all the situations so that there is no excessive fear for those parties that are currently under attack. But, as Jaanus Karilaid said in our committee during this conversation, no one needs to feel fear, because even if we restore the situation that has been taken away from us now, there is no retroactive force on this law. So what's gone is gone. But for the future, it would give a very strong and very good signal. And I think it would make sense to support it for all of you. That's the story. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U519	You have questions too. Martin Helme begins. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U520	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Good Paul! I really have a question for the end of your story. After all, we have a party in Estonia that is not one, but has been convicted twice in criminal matters, the Centre Party, which is now a parliament party and a government department. As I understand it, the fact that he has past convictions doesn't change anything, but he's also got a suspicion of a crime in connection with the Porto Franco issue. What does this mean in practice and what will it look like in practice if we restore this section now? And here in a few years, I don't know, five years from now, seven years from now, or depending on how the Corporal does its business, maybe one party will be responsible, but maybe another party will stay, not what's now being made suspect. So what's going to happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U521	Thank you very much for the good question. I'm telling you, nothing really panicking is gonna happen. Indeed, because, as I said, it would be a little difficult to impose retroactive force, given our legal practice, so basically nothing happens in the things that exist. True, there is one small threat. We know that the Centre Party has now become suspicious, now in the third case, but it is still a question and nothing more. We still have the presumption of innocence ruling, or if we have not been convicted of a sentence, it is not guilty. Maybe it's not right now. But what's a whole other and much more important thing about it? The most important thing is that we give the signal to the public, we show that we care about public opinion, we care that the gap between the state and people does not increase, but that we begin to shrink, so that the parties return to trust, which is already, say, very thin. And most importantly, we know, in fact, all of us who have acted in politics, how difficult it is to build a party. If, now, let's say, a forced termination for an offence actually materialises, no one would shoot a human being for it. People aren't going anywhere. Indeed, it is possible, in principle, that the people of the party that has been forced to terminate will, for example, go to other political parties or create a new political party, that is perfectly acceptable. But here's the point. If you've still built one party for 10 years, 15 years, and then you've blown it down with some nasty deed, you'll be disciplined that in the future, if you work again to raise a new party, you won't step on those rakes. In any case, it organises social relations, in any case it organises the country's relationship with political parties and vice versa.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U522	Thank you. Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U523	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, thank you very much. The presentation was funny and brilliant. But I'm gonna let myself have a bit of a speculative question. Please tell me what you think. We have two non-party ministers in the government right now. Could it be the reason you described earlier that these people want to keep their honest name and have not joined the non-profit organization known in the Estonian Underworld as the Centre Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U524	Yes, thank you, Urmas! Well, that's a bit of a provocative question, isn't it? If I imagine that I would be, say, more or less non-political... In fact, any person who goes into politics as a minister, or he is no longer an out-of-policy person, and the temple he has fought for, this temple will remain attached anyway. However, it can indeed be speculated that joining a non-profit organisation that is stained and whose stains have not ended may indeed be one of the reasons for not partying or taking any steps and perhaps other parties. But it's speculation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U525	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U526	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Paul! I'm really saying "honey," because you and I are the ones who actually started the Conservative People's Party, remember, in Põltsamaa. My question concerns the members of the political parties. That is not the subject directly, but it is. I'm sorry! I had another one on the computer, it probably echoed, I'm really sorry. We have excellent examples here right now. Priit Toobal has resigned from the previous parliamentary term. As far as I'm concerned, he was also taken away from him for his immunity. And now he's running, as we read on the news, again as a clean boy on the list of the Central Party, hoping to get closer to Egyptian meatsheds.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U527	Please ask me a question! Time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U528	We have a minister who lost his license to drive drunk and resigned.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U529	Good Mart Helme, please, time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U530	Right now he's a minister again. How do we view these personal issues in this context?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U531	Thanks a lot, Mart! Yes, I remember very well that 2012 when our party was born. However, as far as these ministers are concerned, such as Toobal, who is not a minister, but who wants to return to politics, I think first of all that I am not very wrong that we have only one party in which criminals are also allowed. Because there is only one party where committing a crime according to the statute is not the basis for expulsion from the party. We know that well. Just because he comes back there, let's say this incorrect element doesn't surprise me. On the other hand, of course, we have a democratic society, and ultimately the voter assesses it. However, I stress once again in the light of this same law that when we tolerate this situation, that this sword of Damocles is not above our heads, it ultimately legitimizes the situation that such an inappropriate element flows back to the parties or even creates its own party, because it is neither a problem nor an obstacle. On the contrary, it also provides the opportunity for bad people to come more successfully to state money, to taxpayers' money. This is the opportunity.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U532	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U533	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'd like to talk to you about something else. I remember I was working at the Tax and Customs Board at the time, and we had a big problem with those companies that had been involved in tax fraud, that is, they had committed a crime, and as a result, the state was left with large sums of money, or tax debts. That's what we call nicely tax-indebted tax spinners. I have a question: have you, at least, made an initial estimate of how this paragraph, if it were to enter into force, would affect the state budget, for example? Positive and How Much Positive? Are there any initial tests done?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U534	Yeah. Thank you, Kert! I mean, from this angle, if we should reinstate this legal situation and bring those rules back into law, both the general part and the rules of its special part, that in itself it's like... I don't have that ability to watch. The way you see it, it's a much broader look, and here I have to envy your ability to look at it from this angle. I can't do it myself.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U535	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U536	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Paul! Tell me now or speak up a little bit about the fact that if we were to adopt this law now, would it also be of preventive use in the fight against corruption, for example, in such a way that the mother-in-law's closet and plastic bags would no longer be the subject. Or maybe it would also make it a little more cautious, if you could say so, to the parties in power and their donors, their donors.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U537	Thank you, Moonika! All your arguments are 100% correct. This would help in one, the other and the third, but more than that, it will also motivate our country to act more quickly in order to organise the regulations of political parties as well as the issues of funding. Because, look, if this situation arises now, that the same sword of Damocles I have spoken repeatedly, perhaps now the third time is already on the top of your head, the danger that may be hitting a party that inappropriately finances itself, whether from a mother-in-law's closets, plastic bags or any other way, it certainly begins to think that this danger needs to be removed. And not in the way that it has been done during the rule of the garment, that I simply delete the paragraph from the law, but in the way that financing as such needs to be organized. This is the same thing that Kaarel Tarand, known to us, has repeatedly said that the funding of our political parties is broken. It's completely broken, we don't have the guts to touch it because no one knows exactly what's going on out there. But standardising things in the Penal Code gives us a pretty good opportunity to do so, and maybe we'll be redirected to rethinking funding schemes. It also gives its warning on corruption. So I think it'll do you any good. The signal to society, however, is completely uniform: we do not tolerate non-profit organisations that manage criminal offences in the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U538	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U539	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! You said that even though we can guess why this provision was removed from the Penal Code, it's hard to justify it. But can you perhaps find a reason why, now that we have proposed to restore this provision, reasons may be found or what might be these reasons for rejecting it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U540	Thank you so much, Henn, for this question. But, well, I guess I'm gonna have to go back to speculation. In itself, it is not very difficult to look at what took place in 2012, 2013, which has then finally led to the regulation of the law, the amendment of the constitution, the repeal of the constitution to a certain extent. I guess these are some concrete actions these years. But I guess that reason hasn't gone away. Our great hope for society and hope that our political levels, just as they learn from history, have been confirmed only in such a way that we actually learn nothing from history, not even from recent history. And this fake, this corruption, it still tends to be its own, it doesn't mean to say'tentacles', but in short, it still tends to slip there, and I believe that nothing has changed in this sense. I still want to say that not putting that law back, or not reinstating it, gives a different signal. It gives a signal that, yes, good people, we don't want this corruption to go away. We do not want political order to improve and improve. Here's our choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U541	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U542	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President-in-Office, once again, for giving me the floor. Look, Paul, you're in such a good swing right now and you're talking very colorful. I'm gonna ask you this way. Perhaps you could describe a little of the political landscape or the political paradigm change from the remote control you're in, if, for example, in ideal terms, we say, this law is passed, and really then the party that has been sanctioned should take political responsibility under this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U543	Thank you, Moonika! I actually kind of already described it a little bit. In my vision, he's in several stages first. I expect that, in the course of this restoration, we will also consider this normalisation in the Penal Code a little more precisely. Maybe I'd just like to keep it from reinstating. I would also like the special rules of the Penal Code to be better regulated in order to be balanced, so that there is no fear, but on the other hand, this sword of Damocles remains above the back of the head. And I can also imagine that, after passing this stage, if we are now going to look at political life, he will certainly direct this political idea in this direction into the right bed, that these inappropriate and corrupt schemes that we have here very diligently drawn together by all of our beloved parties, in any case the red light will be very strongly in front of their eyes, that it would rather be reasonable to avoid them. Something like it's good to pay taxes, not pay them off.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U544	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U545	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I would still be developing this broader subject. I am talking here not only about the party, but I am talking about companies at all. Do you agree with me, Paul, when I say that this introduction of a forced termination into the Penal Code, this punishment, the forced termination will help us to clean up the tax environment at national level, to make it fairer and more transparent, as well as to remove companies that commit tax fraud from the list of companies that are criminally acting, by which the state budget will surely suffer? Do you agree with me that this would have a much wider effect than only in terms of political parties?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U546	Thank you, Kert! Thanks for helping me get back on the rail! Indeed, if this bill has now been brought to this table, the bill is not really meant for parties alone. You're absolutely right. It was simply the government's response to this bill that led me there and, of course, the conversation in committee when we discussed it. Well, everything just went on that party track. But you are really right that we are talking about legal persons in itself, and that is really wider, and it is not only about parties, but about all kinds of legal persons. If they still come into conflict with the law, including tax laws, then this possibility will remain, and in that sense, I believe that this reference to improving our finances is certainly right and fair.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U547	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U548	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Good Paul! You have touched on the historical line here in some cases that 2014 was dealt with by the Riigikogu, before that was handled by the Ministry of Justice, and a little-too speculation that what these reasons might have been and what the background was. But actually, you gave us a pretty good timeline here. In my opinion, there is still a need for a political context at that time to understand here. After all, this was the coalition that passed the Cohabitation Act in 2014, i.e. the yellow Reform Party and the Red Social Democratic Party with a purple coalition. And, among other things, during this whole reform of the Penal Code, they threw out a bunch of paragraphs that sanctioned money laundering. This is not the Centre Party that, by the way, was in opposition at the time, we have talked about the Centre Party here, but there have still been other parties involved. Can you get us out of this political background and the story of the arrivals and those bakers' ministers who were ministers of justice?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U549	Thank you, Martin! Indeed, this knowledge of the context is good, but I did not go through the context of preparing this draft for a long time now, even though these references are absolutely correct. I myself mean that at the time of the so-called formal cancellation of the Constitutional norm, who was then in the government that was in the Riigikogu. As I said, this was the XII at the time, and there were two governments at the time, both of which were the Clothing Governments, the First and the Second Clothing Government. So for me, this context is narrow in this sense at the moment, but the overall view could indeed be pushed even wider.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U550	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U551	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Paul, I have such a very practical question. We all know that our trials are dragging on, especially when it comes to corruption processes, stretching over the years and years. We'll take the case of the Port of Tallinn. Well, where have we come from? One suspect or one accused has even walked into freedom, but nowhere has been reached. What political background is there, what kind of political cover is there, did the money move from there to political parties? I don't know. People have forgotten that there is a process like this going on somewhere. After all, we can give other examples. Shouldn't we also have some kind of procedural pressure on deadlines here so that we don't have a party that is suspected or accused for several consecutive cycles to continue working?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U552	Thanks, Mart! In any case, I support the idea that we should also perhaps provide for these more specific deadlines in the procedural code. But yes, the Lord's ways are wonderful and the devil's ways are secret. Well, they'll find some options, a way to stall things. And now, because of the circumstances, when I have also been in contact with the judges, I can say quite firmly that at least the opinion of the large majority of our judges is that they must not be pressed for deadlines so that we can achieve the necessary quality in the trial. Well, that's the point. This is probably the subject of some other law. But in any case, I support this idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U553	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U554	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Looking, in fact, at the great support of these liberal parties and at their firm conviction that corruption is not so bad, are we not barking at the wrong tree? Perhaps we should today treat corruption as a measure binding on society, where interested parties find an agreement with each other and complement each other that there is such synergy. There's nothing more permanent than crimes committed together.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U555	Thank you, Tarmo! In fact, this is a very correct conclusion and lawyers are also studying at the university that this is one of the ways in which legal order can be organised. It's exactly the same thing that what used to be a crime or a misdemeanor, whatever, is declared right and fair. It's one of the options and possibilities. But I understand that our society does not expect such steps. So there's a chance, but there's probably a negative chance.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U556	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U557	[[Remote connection]] Good waitress! They say error is human and forgiveness is divine. Those who... There's a comb right now in my... Unfortunately, I don't know what's going on on the screen now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U558	We hear pretty well, so please keep asking. Well, now Alar really disappeared. But then we can do this because you're in one group... Let's see if we can get Alar back in touch. If not... Here, we got it. Please, Alar, ask me again!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U559	Thank you. I hope my penguin will forgive my courage to point at him. How does the proposed legislative amendment relate to our image at international level and, for example, in the eyes of European partners? What solution raises and strengthens our image, and thus also our security, and what solution harms it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U560	Thanks a lot, Alar! I, in any case, have realised in my work on the Committee on Corruption that the fight against corruption is very important for us in Europe. And I have also noticed that corruption in Europe has grown ever bigger, bigger and bigger, and this struggle has become increasingly intense, intense and intense. It is possible that this is the peculiarity of liberalism, that there is a lot of corruption here and there is a lot of it, but I would rather rely on the fact that, if we in our own legislation are to step up various measures to rule out political corruption, that, even for a liberal Europe, should raise our bar rather than lower it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U561	Mr. Kaskpeit, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U562	[[Remote connection]] Oops!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U563	I guess it wasn't. Looks like it wasn't. Still, still. Mr. Kaskpeit, do you have a question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U564	I pushed it wrong. May I ask, do you hear me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U565	Yeah, may I ask and you'll hear.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U566	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good Paul! I have the opinion that today, after the vote, it is nice to see that those who vote in favour of rejecting it are afraid of this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U567	Thank you, Uno! I mean, here's what the Chinese say: every stick has two ends. And in this case, I also say that indeed, on the one hand, we see what kind of political association we have here is positive about fighting corruption. But on the other hand, if this draft is not supported, then the proof is that the EKRE Group is very good at shaman power, because we have predicted it. That's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U568	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U569	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Any word from me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U570	It is.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U571	Very good! Good Paul! Prediction is ungrateful work. But how do you think we're going to get this vote? Given how much this party, a lot of which has been discussed, which has had the biggest problems, has confirmed that it is doing self-cleaning and getting on the right track, I think we could hope that today we will get the votes for support quite well. How do you feel?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U572	Thank you, René! It is not as I said that, in the light of this morning's group's understanding, I suspect that we have a very correct opinion from the group and that it will not find very much support. On the other hand, I also began my speech by saying that the fresh discoveries of scientists say that the joyous tones the common sense better, and I began with great joys, and I also invited Tarmo and Urmas to follow the way in which they expressed themselves, that this joy suddenly also tones more support behind this bill. Life shows, and I always hope for the best as an optimist, like we all are.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U573	Now the questions are over and we are going to the co-report by Jaanus Karilaid, Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U574	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, On 6 April, the Committee on Legal Affairs met to discuss this draft. All nine members of the Committee on Legal Affairs were present. As a guest, the Deputy Chancellor of the Ministry of Justice was Markus Kärner. And this bill was discussed. I would like to say a few words as a comment. It seems that the initiators of the draft are in some very desperate position, because I see that Paul Puustusmaa, when he introduced the draft, began for some reason in Fatherland, spoke of the Fatherland for a very long time during the introduction of this draft. That's a very interesting observation. And the second is that on the previous item, Paul called the Centre Party of Puustusmaa and the Fatherland a very good partner. Thank you, that's a great recognition! This concept of "fun" is wholly positive and did not expect to be praised in this way after the fall of the opposition. Thank you for the credit! But if I sum up the concentration of this draft debate, this draft is essentially empty. In fact, the standards in force in Estonia are very strong. The Political Party Act, the General Part of the Civil Code Act, the Penal Code have been adequately enforced with various sanctions and in today's legal space it is possible to eliminate parties. It is also possible for the court to impose penalties on legal persons up to EUR 16 million. Let's say it would not be possible for a party to continue to exist with such a fine, so that the tools and punishment and motivation of the sanction, so that political parties are honest and act transparently, are quite clearly present. And what else would I highlight from this debate that came out of it when I look at these questions? Yes, the most important are procedural decisions. Propose to put the draft on the agenda by 13 April, the decision being consensual. Propose to reject the draft, by 5: Marek Jürgenson, Sulev Kannimäe, Jaanus Karilaid, Urve Tiidus, Vilja Toomast; against 3: Uno Kaskpeit, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Anti Poolamets; impartial was Heljo Pikhof. Appoint Mr Jaanus Kariliid as rapporteur for the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U575	Is that all? Got it. Then there are questions. Starting with Mikhail Lotman. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U576	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I'm confused. I've read this bill and nowhere there was a mention of the Centre Party. What makes you think it's about the Centre Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U577	He touched the Fatherland and the Centre Party. When I listened, the author of the bill mentioned two political parties, the Fatherland and the Centre Party. And it actually came out of the presentation by the billwriter. So it seems that the presentation of this draft was rather reflected in such political bitterness, and this has been acknowledged by the initiators themselves. Anyone who understands today's legal space will have every chance. Let's say, this appeal that if your legal body is eliminated, come to our party, what would it fundamentally change? Let's actually make this policy even more scheme-based, that you're doing one NGO, doing some kind of crime there, and then you're joining the EKRE or the Fatherland. Well, it's not a very sensible call.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U578	Mr. Lotman, is it procedural?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U579	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I have a very strange feeling about how our waitress interprets the texts, and I note, just in case, for the sake of the record, that there is nothing against this draft in Isamaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U580	It wasn't procedural, but we took note. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U581	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I also asked this question in the Commission. Of course, there is no need to talk about how the vote was. But how do you feel about whether the composition of the Riigikogu today and the large hall are morally mature to discuss corruption, or whether it continues to be a taboo issue in 2021 and our ambassadors, say, are not yet ready for such a, so serious debate?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U582	I think today's Riigikogu is morally mature, but this bill would make a cancer course in our political culture and nothing would improve. It's a signicant political communication. In the Commission, we also talked about the fact that in 1932, 1933 or 1934 it was customary to dismantle parties. So do you want to take a step back into our bad, negative history? So it's very short-sighted, but it's the choice of the initiator of every bill, and the bill is free.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U583	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U584	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. As a Commission waitress, you can, of course, talk about your emotions, but only if you are asked the relevant question about the Commission waitress. In fact, what took place in the Commission, what discussions were held there, what arguments were put forward, you absolutely did not touch on. Did the Commission really not discuss this draft, but rather did it in exactly the same way that you are attacking it here and attacking the authors? Is that what it was and they shut the drawer down? I wonder, though, what happened in the Commission? What was said in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U585	Yes, as a Commission waitress, I made a choice, made a more important concentration and highlights.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U586	No more questions for you. Thank you. Let's move on with the negotiations. The floor has wished for Tarmo Kruusimäe on behalf of the Isamaa Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U587	Thank you, good vice chairman. Dear colleagues, who you are in your offices or are meeting on the ground with voters and at the same time hard work, and, of course, the right-abiding people, as well as those who are not right-abiding! We are discussing here today that, although § 48 of the Constitution says that only a court can stop or stop the activities of an association, association or party for committing an offence, as well as fine him, we are not getting very much legal clarity here today. It was particularly strange how the opportunity to debate corruption was voted down in a large hall. There are simply three major conclusions to be drawn from this. Anyone who doesn't remember history lives without a future. In 2013, Fatherland came up in local elections with the subject of corruption. It was acute at that moment, and the Fatherland succeeded. Four years later, corruption was no longer such a big problem in Estonia, supposedly because when we came out with the eradication of this corruption [the topic], our support fell low. This means that today Estonian society may already be used to taking corruption as a component of a coherent society, where then the interested parties can complement each other and the resulting synergy creates this situation and the knowledge that it is possible, with financial support, to gain an advantage over very brilliant ideas. The second conclusion, as a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, was that today the large hall is not ripe for this. He's not mature to discuss. Maybe indeed, we know what power trading is and everything, but we are not going to make it to the country in these debates. We're not gonna make it to the country with our own rules of lobby. And then it is that it is actually filled and furnished by our media, thinking that the members of the Riigikogu are lobbyists, because it is a derogatory expression. But once again, those who work out the rules of lobby say that lobbyist is actually an interest guard. We really are interest guards. That's a point. And the third important conclusion is that we understood that the law has no retroactive force, so what has been, it has been. Today, in fact, parties who would like to look a little cleaner would be able to put a stake in the ground: here comes another breath. And now that's the point, what is this really message to the other new political parties that will be running for office in the Riigikogu in a few years' time? Whether this message is that corruption still remains a problem, or is it a message that today 500 people can already form the NGO, which they call a party, they come and do and do whatever they want, because they know that they have legal protection, because the lower-level laws have been evicted, all the possible things that would actually put the Constitution first, and today § 48 is simply empty of substance. This is an extremely ugly moment. Yes, the leader of the party, who would have wanted a fresh breath, who might have gone somewhere else, wiped it off, would have had that chance. But, of course, coalition always stays better when hard votes take place. Anyone who doesn't remember history lives without a future. Yet last year, the Reform Party said that corruption is almost a problem, but it is not. When we recall that, even at the moment we had the previous government resigned, we did not hear a single word that the Reform Party would have said that it was like corruption, but that it was perhaps the norm. That means, good Reform Party, that all your statements on corruption are hypocritical. You actually support corruption. Therefore, this vote very well shows what the relationship between the Reform Party is, let us say, corruption, because there are always few funds. So, good reform parties, fire it up! The Estonian people remember. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U588	Henn Põljaasa has a procedural question. Please! Well, we can't get in touch with Henn Põllea right now. I believe we can go on with Mart Helme's speech and then we can see if Henn Põllea's procedure continues to apply. Please, Mart Helme, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U589	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, Fyodor Mikhailovich Dostoyevsky has a novel, everyone knows its name, "Deal and Punishment." One of its main characters is Rodion Raskolnikov. A person who imagines that he is better than the surrounding person and therefore is more acceptable to him until he can kill a fellow man. Whatever he's doing. At one point, however, Raskolnikov is seized by remorse and remorse. This is a deeply philosophical theme that fits into the current context. But it is also a deeply moral issue and it is a deeply legal issue in today's context. Because what we see is the increasingly tolerant attitude of society towards corruption, various manifestations of corruption. And we have to ask ourselves why. Why is society ever more amenable to corruption around us? I've been looking for an answer to that, and I think I've found an answer. On the one hand, of course, it's tiredness, on the other hand, it's a feeling of powerlessness. But what can we do? This feeling of powerlessness comes from the fact that society as a whole, the whole network of social institutions, is corrupt. Courts are corrupt, prosecutor's office is corrupt, press is corrupt, special services are corrupt. I can already hear people scream, Helme's gone crazy. No, I'm not crazy. I have not gone mad at all, and I also know very well the principles of the functioning of all kinds of institutional systems, the ways in which they operate. One of the ways in which they operate is that they take advantage of the involvement of corrupt people in their activities, their application to their service and the closure of their eyes to their corrupt actions, so that they can continue to work in their interests over the years. And especially in small societies, such as Estonia, these networks are paralysing corruption. Of course, political corruption, party-level corruption is part of the iceberg. That's what they see the most. This is where there are also the most missed situations, where the highest number of such public or public abuses occurs. But the depth of corruption, the underwater part of the iceberg of corruption, is actually what feeds and keeps this part of the water alive all the time. And that's the biggest problem. It's a paralyzing problem. If you think this is the case only in Estonia, there is no such thing. Look, right now there's a Netflix show called "Narcos," which dealt with Colombia, currently dealing with Mexico. See how justice institutions and law enforcement institutions and political institutions provide cover for all this, corrupt and the depth of corruption helps to keep the bilateral street alive. It's very instructive, and it's all done in a documented manner. So let us think about all this! I'd like more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U590	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U591	At this point, I would like to make such a fine digression, or not even a digression, but a point. They're just grotesquely funny. In the middle of January, a corruption scandal overthrown the previous government. Who went on in the new government? The party that was at the heart of this corruption scandal, who had a suspicion that at least hasn't gotten out in public until now, but somewhere beneath the surface, something is troubling and touring. Who became the minister of the coalition's party's home affairs, joined, if not formally, then, at least informally, the party's minister, who became suspected of corruption? Officer, Prefect of the North Precinct! He had no problem with joining the party suspected of corruption and becoming its minister. It's grotesquely funny. Let's keep going. As soon as the two parties currently in power were in power, businessmen rushed to them and turned on their money taps, immediately turned on their money taps. We understand perfectly well that all of a sudden the eyes of the Reform Party were awfully beautiful. I have no doubt that Kaja Kallas has beautiful eyes, I have even compared them with the eyes of my beloved, very beloved dog. I'm not doing this comparison derogatoryly, but I love my dog very much. I love my dog very much, and I want to say that this comparison is a comparison with which I would like to congratulate our Prime Minister on his very nice appearance. But these bills weren't turned on, and they're still not unscrewed because they have beautiful eyes. But by no means are beautiful eyes, at least not such beautiful eyes, George Ratas. So the unwinding of the money taps for the Centre Party is certainly not linked to beautiful eyes. But what does it have to do with anything? What it has to do with, I ask a rhetorical question, if not with beautiful eyes. With influence, is the trade in influence, is it already infiltrated with corrupt paths, where a sheet of paper is moved across the table, which is written "three lemons" and the other half rejects, writes, "four lemons"? Is that how it works? Did the corrupt schemes and the ways in which the money was brokered suddenly start working again?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U592	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U593	I'm asking you questions, but I don't have any answers, I'm not an investigative body. But let us think about these questions and think about the fact that corruption is a cancer. This cancer is also in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U594	Let's try to get back in touch with Henn Põllamaa. Please, Henn Põllamaas!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U595	[[Remote connection]] Hi! Thank you. A procedural question indeed, Honourable Vice-President of the Riigikogu! We all know what the Commission rapporteur is to do. It is up to him, in accordance with the minutes drawn up by the Commission, to report these discussions, these debates, disputes, the results of the vote, all that took place in the committee, before the House in this large Chamber. Not what the waitress thinks of one thing, what her emotions are, what she bursts out in the hall. You can talk about it, it's not forbidden, but only if anyone cares. In this case, nobody cared about it, nobody asked about it. I now ask what the President intends to do, because Jaanus Karilaid, the rapporteur for the Commission, refused to introduce us to the discussions that took place in the committee, refused to present what is stated in the minutes. And I have a proposal to the President that you invite Commission waitress Jaanus Karilaiu to speak again so that he can report exactly what happened in the committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U596	Thank you. Dear colleague in the field, I agree with you that the Commission's report must reflect what has happened in the Commission. I don't agree with you in any way that if anyone cares, you can talk about your own business, and if nobody cares, you can't talk about your own business. No one here can make this definition subjectively as a representative of the Commission. We really need to talk about what was said in the Commission, and I hope that all the co-rapporteurs will follow this principle. Jaanus Karilaid, procedural.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U597	Thank you to the manager. The protester Henn Põllaas was wrong, the results of the vote were well read, all the decisions were read out, the important highlights were also read out, and if Henn Põllaasa has a wish, then Parliament's website will find its detailed minutes and he can print it out for himself this evening.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U598	It was rather, yes, your bilateral conversation, not procedural questions about the procedure for conducting the hearing. Henn Põllaas, I hope that we will not continue this debate on the same subject, you can communicate with Mr Karilai with each other on how you think that the content of the Commission's protocol has been reported. But, Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U599	[[Remote connection]] Yes, thank you! I now ask the honourable Vice-Chairman: do you really think that this approach, which Jaanus Karilaid pointed out, is that the members of the Riigikogu, the ambassadors can read themselves on the Riigikogu's website, which was spoken and discussed in that committee, and that it is not the responsibility and duty of the Commission rapporteur to report at all what was discussed there, what someone asked, what was answered, which were important points in addition to the result of the vote, [is correct]? I think this is a pretty gross violation of our domestic and operating rules.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U600	Thank you for that comment. The truth is that the co-rapporteurs of the committees in this Chamber have made their choice whether and how detailed they will pass on what has happened in the Commission. We have seen very different contributions here. Another recent member of the Riigikogu remembers, who literally read the entire content of the protocol and did not reach the end of it at all, because there was little time. After he went and in the round of negotiations he read the minutes. So we've had a variety of internships here in the big hall. I would like to express to all of you from this chair of the President that the Commission's report must reflect what has happened in the Commission and, of course, convey both substance and meaning. The rapporteur must remain within its limits, not then really begin to expand his subjective opinions, as we have seen here. That concludes the procedural questions, we consider the negotiations to be over. We have reached the point that the proposal of the lead committee is to reject draft 331 at first reading, and it needs to be voted on. Honourable Riigikogu, I would like to put to the vote the commission's proposal to reject draft 331. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U601	The proposal for rejection was supported by 58 members of the Riigikogu, against 30. Draft 331 has been rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U602	Our eighth item is the draft law amending the Penal Code, initiated by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, with number 339. At first reading, the Anti Poolamets will make a presentation on behalf of the initiators. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U603	[[Remote connection]] Envoys! The draft law amending the Penal Code proposed by the EKRE aims to increase the protection of minors against sexual abuse. Estonia is currently a minority among the Member States of the European Union under the current Penal Code, where an adult can have sexual relations with a minor of at least 14 years of age. Given the role of sexual offences against minors among all sexual offences, it is necessary to increase the protection of minors against the type of crime which has a long-term impact on children's development and mentality. Sexual crimes affecting minors have made up a stable majority of about 85 to 90% of all registered sexual crimes. In 2020, 222 sexual crimes were committed against minors. In the first quarter of this year, 70 sexual crimes were committed against minors. By amending § 145 of the Penal Code, a person of at least 21 years of age must not have sexual intercourse or engage in any other sexual activity involving persons under 16 years of age. The aim of the amendment is to increase the protection of children under 16 years of age from sexual offences. According to the current law, for example, a 50-year-old man or woman is eligible for intercourse with a 15-year-old child if this is done with the consent of both parties. However, this cannot be considered tolerable given the vulnerability of children, the manipulation of adults and vulnerability. As a recent example, the reasons for the football club Nõmme Kalju's coach, Getulio Aurelio Fredo, for being in a relationship with a person under 14 years of age, startled Estonian society. Today, he has also been subjected to a suspicion of a crime. However, there has been a consistent press response to such cases, recalling the doubts expressed in August 2020 for the coach of the Ihase Horse School. On the basis of a number of other restrictions which impose a minimum age of 21 years, it is also reasonable to provide for a minimum age of 21 years in this respect in order to have a ratio below 16 years of age. Among the neighbouring countries of Estonia, the age limit for sexual self-determination is 16 years in Finland, Latvia and Lithuania. In addition, the same age limit applies in Spain, Great Britain, Norway, Belgium, the Netherlands. In the United States, the age limit is 16 years in the vast majority of states. Seven states have a minimum age of 17 years and twelve states have 18 years of age. The amendment of § 178 of the Penal Code may not use a person under 16 years of age in the manufacture, acquisition or preservation of a pornographic or erotic image, writing or other work or reproduction, transfer, display or otherwise making available to another person. This section, too, has a minimum age of 14 years under the law in force, but for the above reasons, it is reasonable to increase the minimum age to 16 years. Under the current law, the maximum penalty is three years of imprisonment, which is not proportionate to the seriousness of the crime. Consequently, it is reasonable to extend the maximum penalty to 10 years imprisonment. In Latvia, for example, the maximum penalty for committing a similar crime is 15 years in prison. The amendments to § 1781 (1) of the Penal Code render punishable the submission of a meeting to a person under 16 years of age or the conclusion of a meeting agreement with him and the preparatory act of the meeting. The amendments to paragraph 1781 (1) establish a maximum penalty rate of 10 years. It makes sense to raise prison sentences when committing repeated crimes. We aim to give the judiciary greater discretion, if necessary, to impose longer term prison sentences. What is the purpose of the sentence? Restoring justice, of course. At the same time, the aim is to reduce the number of crimes. Our conviction is that...... for a long time... [[I can't hear you.]] And I am very pleased that there is now a cross-party consensus to move forward by changing the age line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U604	Thank you, good waitress! No questions for you. However, Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U605	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress, I understand that it is very difficult for you to speak on this subject, I understand that it is very difficult to convey all these words across your lips. You're a father and you have several little daughters. But we heard about the latest news from the Ministry of Social Affairs, or more recently it was possible to read that young people visited the Minister for Social Protection and proposed to increase the age limit for sexual self-determination to 16. At the same time, we saw the Minister of Justice, Maris Lauri, spin around here in one of our briefings and try to get behind the young people's backs, that you don't know, maybe you should raise them, and maybe then a year, that we have to ask the young people. Now I am actually very happy that the young people themselves took in, that our good young ones came and said what they thought about it. Because it is such a crucial issue that we must once protect our children from their users and paedophiles.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U606	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U607	I am very pleased that this understanding has also reached the table of all parties. I ask whether you are pleased that our good young people want us to protect them, that politicians take this issue and do it once and for all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U608	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for a very good question. For a very long time, it is justified not to change the age limit by not interfering with young people's love life. But that is not the case, and it is particularly important that from time to time the position of young people also sounds out. I do not know why there is such a ultraliberal view of politicians or, from time to time, experts that we must not, as if, interfere with the relationship between young people. But in our draft, it is also true that the age difference will be taken into account and the responsibility will begin at the age of 21 so that this gap does not get too big and the so-called Romeo and Julia clause can also be implemented.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U609	Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you once again that we are all trying to build on the fact that questions need to fit in one minute. So I ask you to stick to this, so we respect anyone who wants to ask. Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U610	Honourable President! Good Anti! Maybe I missed it because I wasn't in the hall all the time. But what are these age limits in our neighbouring countries? Can you give me a heads-up? I'm sorry if I wasn't there and you already did.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U611	[[Remote connection]] I repeat that it is 16 years old in Finland and Latvia. I also have one longer table ahead of me, but I will limit myself to our neighbours, where the age is higher than in Estonia. Scandinavia also has a higher age than we do in other Scandinavian countries. So I think we're more behind our neighbors now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U612	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U613	[[Remote connection]] Good manager and waitress! Only recently, at the end of the year, a number of colleagues, ladies and gentlemen from the Reform Party, came up with proposals that could be married to people who were already 12 years old and 13 years old and 14 years old. But marriage without sexual intercourse is hard to imagine. How do you view the fact that different signals [come] from this hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U614	[[Remote connection]] I remember these proposals well, and I have been very scared of them, as have others. However, I continue to classify it as indecent jokes. These proposals by the Reform Party were an enormous number that scared, but unfortunately none of them made a laugh, and this still caused a great deal of embarrassment. As far as I'm concerned, and I've been trying to do some background analysis on how these gentlemen have signed such papers, I have some understanding that they didn't really read what they signed. But I think it's more of a juvenile mindset. A paper shall be signed which they have not read through. It's a very bad situation in every way. And there will be a lack of words if I start reading these proposals again, since joining Russia and going to the ruble zone. This is going to be a pretty ugly episode in the history of the Estonian Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U615	Good Helle-Moonika Helme, I hope you can fit in one minute now, because you've had to put it over in a little bit of time. Please, Helle-Moonika Helme! Let's try and make it in a minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U616	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Thank you for reprimanding me! I'll try to make it quick. Kristi Luik, who lives in America, has written in his final column that he heard for the first time in March this year that sexual relations with a 14-year-old child are allowed in Estonia. Then he thought, "That can't be possible. A country that allows sexual exploitation of children is not a modern, modern country, but something that belongs to the third world. And that's a very difficult subject. Indeed, I also believe that our country and its legislators, who have so far enabled it, must look very seriously at themselves. Perhaps you, Anti, can tell us why so far the legislator has not wanted to do anything, apart from our party, of course, which already presented this draft in its previous composition, but everyone else opposed it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U617	My assumption why this is so is that it refers to certain jungle laws of the 1990s. I share the amazement of this American. Because when I carefully analyzed how many states in the United States have a different age limit, my surprise was that there were quite a few states as many as 18 years of age. 16 years of age was in the majority of states, seven states had a minimum age of 17 years, and 12 states had 18 years of age. So the amazement must be great from that side. The Americans thus confidently protect their children from these demons. Of course, there must be something to do with liberalism. All the time I've heard, as far as I can remember, this narrative that, like, you can't interfere anywhere, you're interfering with someone's free choice. But all the more, I am pleased that there is now a cross-party consensus. And this very ugly episode with Nõmme Kalju's soccer coach has now contributed greatly to this consensus. But it didn't just take an incident, it needed a confession. Coach admitted that it was his right and considered it to be entirely natural, even though a similar incident was only in August when the rider was charged with very similar accusations. But as we can see, life goes by narratives. When a story becomes a [public] personless complainer, the young girl who was once abused, told her story, the coach justified herself, this story has a very strong impact on the development of current events. Although our bill was filed before this case came out.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U618	Good waitress, no more questions for you. A co-report on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs shall be made by Vice-Chairman Heljo Pikhof. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U619	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! On 6 April, we discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs the draft law amending the Penal Code initiated by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. In addition to the members of the Commission and Commission officials, Mr Markus Kärner, Deputy Chancellor of Criminal Policy at the Ministry of Justice, took part in the meeting of the Commission. EKRE Ambassador Anti Poolamets introduced the draft as he did today, and it will not be repeated here. Perhaps a few words about what happened in the Commission. The subject was this, I asked Anti Polish Forest that since this draft does not regulate communication between the 10-year-olds and the 18-year-olds, what is his attitude and that of the initiators in regulating this issue. The Anti Party agreed to the existence of the problem and expressed the hope that this will be discussed before the final adoption of the draft. We also discussed the issue of the production or preservation of pornographic or erotic images, writings and other works or reproductions, the transfer, display or otherwise making available to another person. Here they wanted to raise the border from the age of 14 to the age of 16 and the question arose as to why not the age of 18. It was accepted by the Half-Authority that this was a discretion. The Deputy Chancellor of Justice of the Ministry of Justice pointed out the position of the Government of the Republic and the decision of the Government of the Republic not to express a position on the draft. He also pointed out a few weaknesses in the draft, which would be worth paying attention to during the procedure. If a person makes a proposal for a meeting for sexual intercourse for a person under 16 years of age, he or she may end up in prison for 10 years, but if he or she is actually entering sexual intercourse with a person under 16 years of age, the sentence would only be five years. There was also a discussion of Tarmo Kruusimäe, which started it, so that it could begin with adolescence. He suggested it could be 15 to 18. Urve Tiidus said that he supported raising the age limit and pointed out that adolescence is involved in adult maturation and is counted from the age of 12 to the age of 22. Okay. And then decisions were made in the Commission. The decision to put the draft on the plenary agenda was taken today, the decision was consensual. It was proposed to close the first reading, to set the deadline for amendments at 4 p.m. on 27 April and to appoint Mr Pikhof as rapporteur. All these decisions were also adopted by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U620	Thank you. You have questions too. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U621	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! In the Commission, we also had a longer debate on a similar draft, and we do not have to be ashamed that the Government of the Republic wants to come with its own proposal, the Social Democrats are also coming and the EKRE is also coming. And there were other time dimensions like 10 years, 14 years. I am asking what I actually asked for in the Commission. Is there a problem with the legislation today that something is not being dealt with? Is there a bigger hole like that? Is that clear from your own question and from my question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U622	[[Remote connection]] Actually, there's a hole. The hole is that under 10 years of age is recognised as unintelligible, but when a child turns 10, it's like he's understanding everything when he's normally developed, of course. And, of course, underage sexual relations that 10- and then nearly 18-year-olds-- it's not in any way, it's not in any way... [[The connection's breaking up.]] There should be some age limits. This minimum age, ten years, definitely needs to be reviewed. In Canada, for example, it is 12 years. Even in sexual communication between minors.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U623	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U624	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good waitress! Was it also discussed in the Commission that this bill also concerns respected teachers who like young students, boys? And the other thing is, in fact, there are limits to all things and some young man and girl matures much earlier than the other. Does this temporal thrill also take into account these exceptions? This distribution is not even at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U625	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Although this issue was upstairs, I do not remember now, either in this or in the previous Commission's [session], that if it is still a minor who has not developed according to age, it will be determined in the expert opinion if the question arises at all. Then it will also be possible to punish the user.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U626	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U627	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I'm trying to help you with the ree. Was there also the question in the Committee on Legal Affairs that there has been a failure to deal with a crime today, because the law simply does not foresee any situation and we have to regulate it? For the age of uplifting, I don't think it's like a hole in it. Is there a problem? Did this issue also arise in the Commission, and we understood it as members of the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U628	[[Remote connection]] Frankly, I don't understand your question well that you could have read your wish as if you were. Of course, there's still a hole in it so that every one of them should lift it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U629	Kert Kingo...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U630	I mean, the age of sexual self-determination.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U631	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U632	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Commission waitress! Our bill does provide for raising the age limit to 16 years of age. Was there any other age, age, in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U633	[[Remote connection]] One could say that the Commission fully supported your draft. And indeed, your bill contains a age limit of 16 years.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U634	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U635	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, My question is just for the sake of the verbatim so that it goes right, you can answer yes or no. You said, at the end of your presentation, by mentioning the Commission's decisions, that yesterday the Commission proposed to put it on today's agenda. I don't think you were psychic, in fact, in our work programme, it's on a Tuesday agenda. The fact that we have come to trial with this today is simply a result of our lengthy sessions. Was it the case that the Commission was actually scheduled to bring it on the agenda on Tuesday?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U636	[[Remote connection]] I'm so sorry! Thank you for pointing out. Actually, the days have gone crazy because it's still Tuesday. I mean, in this hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U637	It's already Wednesday. Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U638	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Heljo! As I understand it, the Social Democrats have also tabled a draft on raising the age limit with similar content, and the Government of the Republic is probably coming up with the same type of draft. Is it possible to proceed with the merger of all the three drafts?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U639	[[Remote connection]] As I understand it, we all share a common direction: to raise the age limit for sexual self-determination in minors until they are 16 years old and then to set the age difference. In this, I think, we will have no disagreement, neither the EKRE, nor the Socialists, nor the Government of the Republic. I very much hope that these drafts will then be processed together.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U640	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U641	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good waitress! Today, there has been a situation where paedophiles are not only girls but also little boys. And when you mentioned earlier that you were discussing the age of ten and what age this ten-year-old could have sex with, it's obvious that both a ten-year-old boy and a girl are really real children. Where did you arrive in your discussions, and did you have a specialist who could discuss and evaluate from a healthy point of view, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U642	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for your question. In fact, I raised it at the last meeting of the Commission and asked where this age limit came from for ten years. A representative of the Ministry of Justice replied that this was since 1992 and no one knew why such a decision was made at the time, why such a age limit was placed. However, I fully agree that the committee meeting should definitely be convened by specialists in their field if we go forward with their age limits and age differences. It's essential.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U643	No more questions for you. Thank you! Let us open the negotiations and be the first to speak on behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group, Kert Kingo. Please! Three more minutes, eight more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U644	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, wherever you are now! Finally, we are now approaching reasonableness and are discussing today in this Chamber the paragraph of the Penal Code which regulates the permissibility of sexual intercourse between a child's age and an adult. More specifically, how old should the person with whom an adult can engage in sexual intercourse be without being subject to criminal responsibility. The Conservative People's Party of Estonia already issued a bill of the same content during the previous Riigikogu, but then it did not find support and the draft of the large hall was never discussed. It is absolutely incomprehensible why Parliament did not have any interest in this issue until this year's scandal of the actions of an alien football coach with his child-dangerous growth came to light. However, it was not one case, it was not the only case. I think there was a lot more of these cases than we thought and wanted to know. It is up to us adults to protect children and young people. We have a life experience that young people don't have. We have developed both physically and spiritually. Young people don't. As a result, the young are easy prey for the experienced and lustful old men. Children should lay the foundation for the rest of their lives. This foundation is healthy childhood, education, communication with peers, and their spiritual and physical development. It was only recently that some parliamentary groups here were terribly concerned about the mental health of young people. They found that access to an independent psychiatrist solves all the problems. It was never discussed that perhaps becoming a wealthy adult bedmate for the sake of beautiful things is what affects young people's mental health. In today's world of things, that makes sense. I believe many of you have read Vladimir Nabokov's novel Lolita. There was no violence in this novel, there was only great love, the love of an older man for a child's threat to a girl. The same story is said by the paedophiles about their victims, about the girls or boys they buy or pressure with their so - called love. It is our duty to prevent the law from ruining the lives of young people. I remember that when, some time ago, the current Minister of Justice was asked about this subject from this very Chamber, it was not noticeable that he had the real will to raise the permissible age limit. Twisted his answers one way or the other. The current coalition would probably not consider this amendment if there were no moral pressure from society at the moment. We believe that the law should be amended in such a way that intercourse by an adult with a person under 16 years of age is punishable by criminal penalties. We stand by raising the age limit for such intercourse from the age of 14 to the age of 16. Although the coalition seems to consider raising the age limit by more than one year, or 15 years of age, and the Minister of Justice has so far justified this by the self-determination of young people, contrary to the opinion of the Minister of Justice and the members of the coalition, young people, as we do, consider this age limit to be the case for 16 years. This position is apparent from the press release of the Ministry of Social Affairs of 31 March, which states that, on the proposal of six representatives of youth organisations, the age limit for sexual self-determination should be raised to 16 years of age and the age gap allowed between young people for sexual association should be defined. In addition, young people stressed that prevention and raising children's awareness are equally important alongside raising the age limit. The Estonian Conservative People's Party is therefore on the right path. Young people expect politicians to intervene and change the law. It is good to know that we are on the same side as young people in this decision. Norstat's April study confirms that the EKRE is on the right track, where 89% of respondents responded favorably to the question of the extent to which you are in favour of raising the age limit for permitted sexual relations from 14 to 16 years of age. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a good and very necessary draft. We stand up for young people, protect them, and let them have children for as long as possible. Please support this bill and show that you really care! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U645	Next on behalf of the Central Party Group, Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U646	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable ambassadors and good wiretap followers! The leadership of the Centre Party and the Riigikogu have also repeatedly discussed raising the age limit for sexual self-determination and we support the proposal to introduce a new norm of 16 years of age. A survey commissioned by the Ministry of Justice in 2020 revealed that 45% of 16- to 26-year-olds in Estonia have fallen victim to sexual harassment or sexual violence online or offline. Raising the age limit for sexual self-determination reduces the risk that our children and young people are at risk of unhealthy adult behaviour. As a society, we have a duty to protect children, and it is too risky to assume that every child can defend himself at the age of 14, when sexual relations with an adult are also permitted by law. However, it is also essential to place greater emphasis on adult prevention and communication to raise awareness and prevent mental and physical health harm for children. Raising the age limit will help protect young people of mild age and ensure their age-appropriate and safe development. In most countries of the European Union, including our neighbours, the age limit for sexual self-determination is higher than us. Sexual abuse of children is a major problem in Estonia and we can do much to prevent it as a whole society. In addition to safe family relationships, more attention should be paid to providing children with age-appropriate knowledge and information. In addition to raising the age limit for sexual self-determination, the age of marriage should also be reached at least 16. It is also necessary, in close consideration with the various parties, to find an answer to the question of which age range is appropriate and reasonable to consider a normal sexual relationship between young people. The majority of sexual relations between young people of this age take place between peers or young people with a low age gap and are voluntary. Cases with a higher age difference are less frequent. According to a study conducted in 2015, 4% of young people had voluntary sexual intercourse with a person at least five years old at the age of 14 or younger. It is important to stress that, in any event, where sexual relations do not take place with mutual consent, this is a crime, regardless of whether it is a relationship between young people or a greater age difference. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U647	Heljo Pikhof on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U648	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Where, in 1992, a clause on the sexual self-determination of 14-year-olds appeared in our laws, no one today can remember exactly that. And there's little use for hindsight around here. All of us, the legislators, the government and society as a whole, must do our utmost to combat evil, to protect children and young people from sexual abuse. The raising of the age line has been discussed here in the Riigikogu, in 2011 and 2013, in particular on the initiative of the Children's Protection League, until this debate was slowly suppressed. The recent ugly story of the young women's soccer coach and her underage children's sexual relations unleashed an entire avalanche and revealed a number of similar cases. Without delay, judgmental reactions also appeared; the severity of the problem was understood. It seems that both coalition and opposition parties now agree that minors must be better protected from sexual abuse. The Social Democrats have also submitted a draft amendment to the Penal Code to the Riigikogu procedure. According to the Penal Code, entering the sexual link of an adult is punishable by up to five years of imprisonment with a person under 14 years of age. If by law we now raised the age of sexual self-determination to the age of 16, we would receive a bird's letter, yet it is only one aspect of the whole highly sensitive topic. We need to make sure we don't raise more criminals. We also need to argue with this buffer area. According to the Social Democrat bill, it could be four years if the minor whose sexual self-determination begins, let's say, at the age of 16, as our bill envisages, and the other half is of age. After all, we must be concerned about insecure and inexperienced youths who can be abused by an adult. Now, speaking of a little bit more of the current protection of the law, any activity involving sexual undertone is considered, in any case, a child younger than 10 years of age incapable of understanding. The grey area, or "parents responsible', covers 10 to 13 years of age. What two early teens do on their own, no one knows, but they also have their fears, worries, and abuse. At the same time, however, it should be stressed that intimate relations between peers, with mutual consent and security, must certainly not be disgraced. In our judicial area, as I said earlier, sexual relations between minors are allowed, and this is the case from the age of 10, but of course here too, the minimum age and the age gap between minors must be reviewed. It's 12 years in Canada. Perhaps that would also be an option and a discussion. This Decision shall be published in the EEA Section of, and in the EEA Supplement to, the Official Journal of the European Union. The report of the study on the health behaviour of schoolchildren aged 13 to 15 points out that it was difficult for young people with very early sexual intercourse to talk about their concerns with parents, to assess their physical and mental health and not to be satisfied with their lives. Other risky practices, such as cannabis and [alcohol] drinking, were more characteristic of them. I am pleased that the discussions both in the Committee on Legal Affairs and in the wider field have begun and must involve not only lawyers and officials, doctors, psychologists and other scientists, police and child protection bodies, but also youth's own representative organisations. After all, they are also citizens who, like adults, have the right to both protection and freedom of action. The Social Democrats hope that this time we will come to working solutions, good will and consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U649	That concludes the negotiations. The commission has proposed to conclude the first reading of draft 339 and we have finished the first reading. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 16 a.m. on 27 April.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U650	We will proceed with today's ninth item on the agenda, which is the draft law amending the State Budget Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 356. We're in the middle of a third reading. The commission has proposed a final vote on the draft 356. But before we go to the final vote, it is possible for the political groups to take the floor. Is that what you want? No, it's not. Then we go to preparing the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the draft 356 requires a majority of the votes of the Riigikogu for adoption. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote before you on the draft law amending the State Budget Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 356. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U651	The draft was supported by 93 members of the Riigikogu and there were no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U652	Our 10th item on the agenda today is the third reading of the Bill 324 of Amendment to § 15 of the Defence Forces Service Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U653	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am simply repeating, in the interests of protocol and historical truth, some of the positions that I made at second reading. The implementation of electronic notification is a very positive step forward, but it is foreseen that there will be some problems in its implementation that I want to talk about again. The amendments proposed by the Estonian Conservative People's Party were aimed at placing an obligation on a person only if he or she is aware of this obligation. This principle was followed by our amendments, which unfortunately did not receive support in the large Chamber. In practical implementation, there is also the problem that, in the case of eesti.ee, it is a portal that young people use very little, and that the functioning of the [electronic notification] system depends very much on how well young people, the professionals, are well informed about this [portal]. At the working level, we proposed a solution that, in fact, should be delegated to the level of the Ministry of Defence regulation to decide on the methods and deadlines for notification. If the country wants to deal with young people, it should go to those environments where the young are themselves, until, in principle, Facebook or WhatsApp. And all these different ways should be able to be regulated flexibly and at the level of the regulation, quite below the law. I myself support this draft, but, unfortunately, not all members of our group, obviously, because our amendments were not supported, may not support it. That's all. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U654	The political groups have no more requests to speak, so I will close the negotiations. The commission has proposed a final vote on the draft 324. Ladies and gentlemen, how do you feel about going to the vote? Let's hope the people who are in the rooms are ready for this. Honourable Riigikogu, I put to the vote before you a draft law amending § 15 of the Defence Forces Service Act, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic, 324. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U655	There was 86 votes for, 3 against and 1 abstention. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U656	Our 11th item on the agenda today is the third reading of Bill 349 of Amendment to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There are requests to speak. Please, on behalf of the Isamaa Group, Viktoria Ladynskaya-Kubits!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U657	Act amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. In principle, it is understandable that the crisis requires flexibility, solutions and the correction of the corresponding laws. When the Ministry just started to say that it is probably necessary to ensure flexibility in the conduct of the examinations, I think that there were no people in the Commission who did not understand it or would have directly opposed it. Everyone was in favour of looking at how the system could be coordinated with the established situation. However, there are a number of weak points in this bill that we are dealing with today and which will probably be adopted. We have great respect for the principle of the question: what is the exam? The test in its original sense is a natural part of the learning process. The student learns and, through the exam, receives his or her parents, his or her teacher, his or her school, but also the country's feedback on whether what has been offered through the school system has been memorized, learned or not. If the answer is no, the system will receive a signal that nothing will work, and the reason for failure may not necessarily be at student level; the problem may be in other areas, such as materials, school, teacher, methodology. There could be a whole line of reasons. But in order to come to an analysis of how the education system operates, exams are needed as a control of knowledge and learned material. Lately, the minister hears a lot of psychological explanation that we don't take the exam, the students have a lot of stress. Agreed. Psychological status is very important. But it has nothing to do with whether the examination needs to be passed or whether it should be revoked. Stress is about how we conduct exams, how we understand final exams as a society, and how we explain their need to students. When the adult job is done, the child's test stress is also minimal. Hence the answer to the question whether we need exams. Yes, we certainly need them, they are needed by the student himself, the teacher, the school, the Ministry of Education and Research, the parent and the state as a whole. The other thing is that we have a crisis. During the crisis, the system should be flexible: additional time, additional space, possibilities to change the schedule of examinations. And indeed, if the situation goes completely out of control, the Minister may be given the authority to consider as a last resort, or as an opportunity, when assessing the situation, in order to untie the exams. Everything I just listed was originally in the draft sent by the Ministry of Education and Research. But then HTM suddenly started to improve its own draft and essentially changed the logic of the draft, to untie [the exams from graduating] anyway, despite the fact that the situation seems to be getting better and not worse. In principle, untie the completion of the exams. And what is important, [to do this] is not under the responsibility of the minister, but to transfer responsibility to the Riigikogu. These questions that I listed earlier are very substantive things that are no longer in this draft: exams as part of the logical learning process and ministerial responsibility for the whole process. It was removed from the draft on a ministerial proposal. Let's take a look at some technical stuff. There's a lot of problems here too, so let me list them. Firstly, the draft, which will be completed during the crisis, at the last minute, will be sent to the Commission, asked for its swift processing and will be amended immediately by the Ministry. What is that? It is unprepared during the crisis to send a draft and immediately start writing amendments to its own draft. Secondly, the fact that the Minister is sending his proposal for amendment, there is a debate in the Commission, the Members of the Commission realise that they are discussing the Minister's proposal, and the next day this proposal will be introduced by a majority in the form of a proposal from the Committee on Culture. What is that? This, again, is unprepared. Legally, it was as if everything was correct, essentially not so much. Thirdly, as soon as we deal with this bill, this law will still enter into force once the first exam is over. Perhaps formally, the same Monday Estonian exam is still compulsory. What is that? Unprepared again, poorly done work. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U658	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U659	Thank you. And finally. In the Committee on Culture, several people recalled last year's experience when the previous Minister, Mailis Reps, wanted to introduce the decoupling for two years immediately. Parliament did not accept this. The same rhetoric came out of the mouth of the current minister that you were proposed last year, after all, we did not agree with this proposal ourselves. I'm warning you, this rhetoric is a very slippery road. Last year, the crisis was something unprecedented. But now the Ministry of Education and Research has had a year to think the system through so that we don't have to step on the same rake. It was not Parliament that had to do this untying proposal for two years, but the HTM had to work harder during this year and try to cope with the system in crisis. So, and under the line, let me put it another way, coming back to what I started, that it is understandable that the crisis requires flexibility. But it is not understandable if the Minister and the Ministry of Education and Research, in order not to see feedback, and the exam obviously has feedback, take a very important foundation out of the foundation of the education system, this same exam. And, of course, it is not acceptable for things to be dealt with in times of crisis with such a large technical cull. Unfortunately, a positive grade cannot be given to the Ministry and the Minister for his first great challenge. In April, I stress, in April, the Minister also faces another major challenge. In particular, Parliament reached a political agreement: there are no political parties in this Chamber that do not support the increase in teachers' salaries. We hope that Minister Liina Kersna will be able to handle the next exam, i.e. the salary increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U660	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U661	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start by saying that the Social Democrats support the proposed draft. But like the previous speaker, we cannot remain silent to express our surprise and dissatisfaction with the whole process of how we have reached this situation today, a few days, essentially a few hours before the first exam. The Minister of Education, presenting both the first version and the second version to the Committee on Culture, but also throughout the interim period, has mostly talked about children's mental health, how the examinations and the organisation of the examinations affect the mental health of young people. And what the Minister did to us really affected not only the mental health of children, but also the mental health of teachers, the mental health of parents, and, ultimately, the mental health of members of the Committee on Culture. In just a few weeks, the views will change completely, with the reasons for changing them exactly the same: the need to know the gaps, the need to ensure normal access to universities, care for the preparation of children and, at the end of the day, consultation with all kinds of stakeholders and the broad acceptance of these ideas by interest groups. Things change in one or two weeks! Even the epidemiological situation in Estonia will not change as quickly as the position of the Ministry of Education and Research and the Minister of Education changes what to do with the exams. The Riigikogu is also put in a very bad position. And communication is probably that Riigikogu passed the law at the last minute. The exams are already underway, the kids are going to be testing the day after tomorrow, but we're just discussing whether the exam is optional or whether the exam is compulsory. Every time a message goes to the Commission, a large circle is reported to the whole of Estonia: it has been decided, we are going to prepare, we are going to do. All of them, of course [will start]. Our education system is quite conservative and quite such as to obey orders and orders. Everyone's getting ready. But then the minister consults stakeholders, looks at the epidemiological situation, listens to the scientific council and decides otherwise. And everyone's running in line again. I do not know what will happen if the Riigikogu does not adopt this law. So the exams are compulsory again since I don't know which day? Dear Minister of Education, we understand that this was your first bill in this government, but that is not how these things are done. Children need clarity, teachers need clarity, parents need clarity. This process, during which the adoption of this draft has been achieved today, is anything but a concern for the mental health of the examiners. I hate to be a school dad here, but I'd like to say don't do that again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U662	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U663	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, All right, technical personnel! As a representative of the EKRE Group, I would like to make a few points here at a late hour. I'm sure we're tired, but it's clear that the rest of the community is tired too. And especially tired are certainly students and educators who have been in this difficult situation for over a year. Here I have the honour of welcoming and congratulating all Estonian teachers on behalf of our group and recalling that our group has proposed that EUR 32 million be included in the additional budget for 2021 to pay teachers a one-off bonus, but unfortunately the government coalition voted down this proposal. Spiritual tension is known to arise for a number of reasons. Above all, when there is a lot of work and this work is stressful, but it also arises when the organisation of life and work is not clear. During the pandemic, we have all had a difficult time, and often we have not had many opportunities to alleviate the number of jobs and stress. In fact, the only thing we can do as legislators, or one sure thing we can do, is to create clarity. Unfortunately, when I repeat the previous speakers, I must admit that we have not done enough to create clarity. In a broader sense, the aim of the EKRE is, of course, to ensure that our young people receive the highest possible quality of education. This means that education should reproduce and promote society. We are proud of the results of our students' PISA tests, but I don't think any of the experienced higher education teachers deny that the level of graduates has been consistently downgraded. As a long-term historical teacher, I can assure you that one of the moments of upheaval was at the beginning of the last decade when we lost the State Examination of History. With this, I want to emphasise the need for insistence. The tendency to change the subjective well-being of a child into a general education objective cannot be accepted. I quote Professor Martin Ehala: "Knowing, demandingness, and obligations reduce the subjective well - being of a person unless he is used to exerting himself. [... I admit that there is a logic here: if the school does not make demands to anyone, then the stress of all will certainly decrease. However, it is certain that by doing so the school will cease to perform its basic task of socialising a young generation and will essentially become a nursing home for young people, where instead of education and education, the student will be divided." In addition, a number of studies show us a very alarming trend: the level of mental capacity of European young people is falling. According to a recent study by the University of Oslo of over 730000 IQ tests, James Flynn's effect, according to which the IQ has increased steadily since World War II, has actually turned back in the generation of births since the mid-1970s. There are various reasons why this is the case. One of the main reasons seems to be the lifestyle, the lifestyle, the way children are educated and raised. In other words, demand will be reduced. True, I admit that this study has been carried out among young people in Norway, but we are all in a common European study area and, if this [study] is true, it will probably apply to us too. In fact, there may be a grotesque situation that the formal level of education in society will continue to rise and rise, and it can be said that, as this trend continues, all of our people will soon be in higher education, but at the same time the real mental abilities of these same people will decrease.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U664	Would the performer like an extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U665	We will probably come back to these issues very soon.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U666	Jaak, would you like some more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U667	Why I'm talking about this is... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U668	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U669	... that we did not really like the fact that the demands were relaxed. We understand that this had to be done, but we believe that disproportionately much has been done. We did not like the separation of upper secondary school examinations and state examinations and student studies or practical work from the conditions of graduating from upper secondary school. We also didn't like the fact that 2020/2021. During the academic year, a descriptive verbal assessment, which does not have a numerical equivalent for both this year and the previous year, may be used in comprehensive school and upper secondary school for evaluation. But as I said at the beginning, the worst option is the continuing ambiguity. Therefore, it was not and is not now our choice between white and black, but rather white and less white. The EKRE Group is responsible and we believe that ambiguity cannot continue, and we are in favour of this draft. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U670	There is no further wish for negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. I shall put to the vote... Oh, of course! First of all, the sergeant! And now let's get to the vote. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 349. This is a draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U671	There are 81 delegates in favour of the draft, there is no one against it and there are no abstentions. The bill has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U672	Let's move on to the agenda. The 12th item is the third reading of the draft Act amending the Act on Creative Persons and Creative Associations initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Social Tax Act. It is possible to open negotiations. Do you have a wish? Yeah, it is. On behalf of the Üllar Saaremäe Fatherland Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U673	[[Remote connection]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good Riigikogu! With this draft, we turn our attention to the double-vulnerable group, of whom Estonia and Estonia depend very much on for carrying forward. Freelance activity is associated with an increased risk regardless of the place of residence. The various forms of art are also directly dependent on the general welfare of society as a fruit of human activity. This makes the creatives, many of whom in turn act as freelancers, particularly vulnerable in today's circumstances. My specialty is theatre, which is mainly based on show activities. It works with the interplay between the stage and the audience. But if there's no audience, there's no theatre. A similar situation has developed in the field of music. Some decades ago, the musician's relatively stable income was guaranteed by the production of sound recordings he created in radio stations and the distribution of sound media, but in digital media conditions, this income has virtually disappeared. Live performances have become more important. One might say that the musician's work has also become a performance artist. Stopping performances and concerts, more generally the restrictions on gathering, which also seriously harm filmmakers, are hitting the whole cultural field. Freelancers are particularly vulnerable. Not all actors work in theatres, just as most artists or film people are not on basic pay in film studios. Estonian culture is the basis for the survival of our country. It is the task of the state, in difficult times, to ensure that the creative people can continue to play their role as communicators and communicators of culture. It is in the interests of the sustainability of our culture that the creatives follow their calling, their profession also in difficult times for society. This legislative amendment will provide an additional opportunity to support freelance artists at a time when their normal sources of income are inaccessible due to the pandemic. Creation can be born of impulse, a flash of thought at some inexplicable bright moment. Culture as a whole, however, needs continuity. As a representative of the creative field in the Riigikogu and as a member of the Isamaa Group, I naturally call on you to support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U674	Thank you. No more calls, we can go to the vote. Let's do the hall call again. I am voting on the draft law amending the Act on Creative Persons and Creative Associations and the Social Tax Act 360 initiated by the Government of the Republic. The commission has proposed a final vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U675	The proposal was supported by 96 delegates, no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U676	Today's 13th item is the third reading of the draft law on the organisation of health services initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. I'm opening negotiations. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U677	President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable fellows! Is the situation in which the rules laid down in the Riigikogu's Law on Home and Working Procedures have been violated in such a way as to significantly distort the parliamentary decision-making process and effectively deprive one of the members of the Riigikogu of the possibility of taking part in the drafting of the law? Absolutely not. Today, all opposition parties and members of the Riigikogu have been deprived of this possibility in the process of handling the Bill 355. This is certainly not the meaning of the Constitution, nor is it the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. The reason why no member of the coalition's Riigikogu or political group tabled an amendment to this draft law at third reading today, i.e. by 5 p.m. on 6 April, is unknown by the Social Democrats. However, as early as December 2020 and early 2021, the Social Democrats pointed out that on 30 April the procedure for receiving sickness benefit will end as from the second day of illness. But then they didn't react because it seemed like there was plenty of time and more. The Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee has stressed that he does not lead the committee on the road roll method. Good fellows! What kind of governance should this action, which was used in the Committee on Social Affairs to deal with this draft, be called? However, despite the fact that the handling of this draft in the Committee on Social Affairs does not suffer any criticism of the government and coalition in the Riigikogu, either reckless, lazy, incompetent or forgetful people and their worries, and [started to act] literally only at the 24th hour, playing unfair political games, acting undemocraticly against opposition parties, the safety of thousands, tens of thousands of workers, the security of those who fall ill after 30 April, must not be compromised. It is precisely as a result that the Social Democrats will support and vote in favour of this draft. But let it be stressed once again that we support this bill only so that it can be obtained by working people who fall ill and need sickness benefits. However, we are still and decisively opposed to a procedure where opposition members are deprived of the opportunity to table amendments and to hold debates in committees and in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U678	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U679	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Snails are a class belonging to the tribe of the molluscs of the animal kingdom. Their house is mostly a formation of lime that can be sheltered in the event of a snail's danger. Pulling out of the house or inflating a frog is an activity that only an early teen can foolishly amuse himself. But just like that happened last week [Wednesday from this hour] a little more than an hour later. Last Wednesday evening, a proposal was received from the Chairman of the Committee of the Social Affairs Committee's members in a mailbox to withdraw part of the draft amendment to the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases and to move it to the second draft. As the previous speaker said, this is clearly political nonsense, because by the time the Social Affairs Committee discussed it on Thursday, it was already on 8 April and the deadline for amendments, 6 April at 5 p.m. The members of the Commission and the political groups were no longer able to make their proposals on this draft. I do not think there are any parliamentarians or political groups who would have any complaints or problems with regard to the draft amendment to the Health Services Organisation Act, or also with regard to the specific provision that was moved from one draft to the other. This could have been solved in a 'normal political debate' procedure in a very polite and reasonable manner. I assume that there was a political will for this, but for some reason it was precisely what I described and what was completely incomprehensible and unreasonable in politics. I also asked the Prime Minister today why to do such a thing or what kind of political culture it carries, if in fact we could communicate and agree. There are a number of important points in this draft amendment to the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases. The second part, why people are on the streets, is still unsolved. The draft law on health insurance voted down here today is once again part of this draft NETS, the draft law amending the Law on the prevention and control of communicable diseases, where we have no idea of how it will proceed, because one part of the amendments tabled to this effect was withdrawn. [Current Bill] finds, of course, the support of all the other political groups of the Riigikogu in this hall today, both in the Isamaa and, I am absolutely convinced. But the way it was handled is absolutely unacceptable. When the Members of the Commission asked why we were doing this and why this proposal could not be brought to the Commission earlier, discussed together, the new term 'knowledge space' came into my mind. If any of the good colleagues know where this room is located in this Parliament, show me. That's what I'd like to know. Previously, there was no room for knowledge to transfer this proposal from one draft to another. So I suggest we find this room in this hall or in this house together, then we'll all be smarter in the future. However, I recommend that the coalition communicate [more], even with these people on the streets, so that they do not have to live in fear of a police state, which, we know, is not coming. Indifferent attitudes and not communicating with people and managing the crisis through the Facebook channel lead to people on the streets and the opposition in Parliament cannot support and praise, to do what is reasonable, but to curse in times of crisis. But, as my predecessor said, I also say that it is still possible to maintain a clear mind and calculation as we go through the coalition road roll, and we support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U680	Thank you. The requests for the floor have ended and we can go to the vote. We are voting at third reading on the draft law amending the Law on the organisation of health services initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in this connection, on the amendment of other laws 355. The commission has proposed a final vote. I'll make a hall call. I will put draft 355 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U681	There are 91 people in favour of the draft, 0 against and 1 abstention. The bill has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U682	We can go to item 14. This is done by the third reading of the State's Draft Additional Budget Act 357 of 2021 initiated by the Government of the Republic. First of all, the rapporteur is Erki Savisaar, Chairman of the Monetary Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U683	Thank you, Mr President. Good Riigikogu! The Finance Committee discussed the preparation of the third reading of the State's Draft Supplementary Budget Act 2021, including on 5 and 12 April. I would like to remind you perhaps so much that the additional budget is 641 million euros, which is intended to help the Estonian population, businesses, society and the health care system. The package of measures includes resources for the payment of wage subsidies in sectors where work is reduced due to restrictions, the continuation of sickness benefits from the second day of illness, additional measures to maintain mental health and special care and rehabilitation, additional funds for medicines, vaccination and crisis management, and support measures for the tourism sector, cultural operators and artists. Six amendments were received by the deadline of 9 April at 12 noon: one from the Group of the Estonian Social Democratic Party and five from the Group of the Isamaa. The amendments proposed by the political groups were the same as they had submitted for the second reading. Explanations can be found in the list of amendments. The Finance Committee, in cooperation with the Ministry, drafted two amendments. One amendment increased the EUR 1.8 million allocated to the fisheries programme in the area of government of the Ministry of Rural Affairs and the other added a paragraph of the text governing the coverage of additional labour costs for general and special care homes. The amendments received from the political groups were rejected by the Commission and were not supported by the Government of the Republic either. The Commission unanimously decided that the third reading could be concluded today and that a final vote would be carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U684	Thank you. There are also questions for the rapporteur. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U685	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, We have heard today how the government union sought a compromise in another fictional problem and indeed found this compromise, which concerns draft 347. Now, the Social Democrats have consistently talked about antivirus, that it is very important for us that a person's previous income is 100% guaranteed from the first day of illness, so that he does not have to pay that coronal fine. The Government Union has not even wished to negotiate with us on this matter. ......... [[The connection's breaking up.]] You, Mr Savisaar, chairman of the committee... Why has the Government Union not negotiated politically on this issue in order to find a sensible solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U686	Thank you, good Evgeny! I cannot answer this question as to why the head of the government delegation has not begun negotiations with you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U687	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U688	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Indeed, as you said, everything is in the table, everything is in the table. But a lot of people are watching this Riigikogu trial and review. Mr Ossinovski presented some of the proposals of the Social Democrats. This concerns the first day of sickness and 100% reimbursement, which is precisely for the sick and close contacts. I am absolutely convinced that the amendments tabled by the Fatherland deserve to be presented. Why don't you stop at them for a while? You are an experienced politician, [tell me] whether it is customary that we are all together in a crisis and put forward proposals, the Head of Government calls on us to find solutions together, but no [proposals will be taken into account]. My heart would have been satisfied even if one or two amendments had been supported. Maybe you'll introduce a little bit, people will watch, and you'll talk about how it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U689	Thank you. I'll try to turn on the computer here in the meantime, then I'll get the exact text of these changes. I didn't spend the paper, I saved the trees, and I didn't print out those suggestions. The computer should start now. As far as sick days are concerned, the additional budget has the means to compensate from the second day, and what to deny there is true that there was no consensus that compensation could begin from the first day. It certainly cannot be said that this would be a bad idea, but simply no consensus was found on this issue and it is a good practice for the coalition to rule by consensus. So when we look at the remaining proposals, the main reason why they were not taken into account is that they are not directly linked to the objectives of the additional budget. All these are undoubtedly important questions. But it would be wise to solve them either with the budget for the coming year or, if they need a longer-term solution, through a budgetary strategy. For example, Isamaa has proposed to allocate 8.5 million euros from the reserve of the Government of the Republic to the Ministry of Social Affairs... No, I'm sorry, it was the Socialist proposal to compensate for the first day of sickness. The Fatherland wants to allocate EUR 9.8 million to research institutions to improve the financing of personal research grants, but there are already more than EUR 100 million in the budget for research funding, and I believe that appropriate funding opportunities have been found in this context when talking to stakeholders. As far as the Government of the Republic has those opportunities this year. It is desirable to give more EUR 1.4 million to sports federations, once again at the expense of the reserve. However, sports federations have also been talked about and there are resources available for this in the supplementary budget. The Ministry of Culture confirms that they are sufficient to mitigate the effects of the crisis. With regard to the Commission's proposal on money for fisheries, the situation was analysed and revealed such an interesting fact that these fish, which have been quickly caught and frozen at the beginning of the year and are wanted to be marketed in Europe, could also be marketed in Estonia and at a much higher price than the one trying to sell them to other parts of Europe. So we see no reason why they should not be marketed quietly on the Estonian market, and there is no need to support this sector at the moment. But if it turns out they can't handle it for any reason, then the Government of the Republic reserves resources to help them logistically, for example, I don't know, transport, or use them in national defence or any other way. What else did we have here? The Fatherland proposed that an additional EUR 1.15 million could be added to the budget for the purchase of rapid tests. However, the additional budget already has resources for this, and the reserve of the Ministry of Social Affairs or the Health Insurance Fund also has, where necessary, resources that allegedly buy enough of these tests, so that no extra money is needed. The Maritime Safety Act wanted to introduce an amendment whereby the fee for the use of waterways would be set at zero. Today there is a 50% discount. According to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, this is a perfectly reasonable compromise and the sector has been discussed, and the benefit of more than 50% was not considered reasonable. There was also a clause that a cost-saving plan could be submitted quickly by 20 April, a few days after the entry into force of the law. This is not right; an additional budget is not the right place to set such conditions. To this end, we have other drafts, and the government will certainly also be looking for budgetary savings, both in the budget for next year and in the budgetary strategy. So these are the amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U690	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U691	[[Remote connection]] Good evening. Honourable Vice President! Good waitress! Let me give you a few examples of what this means for frontier workers who have not yet been vaccinated by not being reimbursed on the first day and 100%. For example, a nurse with a monthly salary of around EUR 1 500 to 1600 will lose between EUR 160 per month. The loss of a police officer is of the same magnitude. The wages of the rescuers are, unfortunately, lower, but, at worst, if you stay home for two weeks, the loss will be close to 140 euros. Our teachers, too. Considering that the first day of sickness is not reimbursed and not reimbursed 100%, the loss is EUR 160. These are all the people who are actually on the front line today, and who we leave unprotected as a country. What do you have to say to these people? How can we justify this decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U692	Thank you. As has already been answered dozens of times here, the government coalition did not agree on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U693	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U694	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good Erki! You said no more or less that the Centre Party had supported this Socialist proposal, but the Reform Party did not support it and therefore no agreement was reached. Maybe you're enlightening us, we've also asked the Prime Minister and the Reform Party about this, which are the reasons why this sensible, necessary proposal is not supported. We have not really been given a justification. The Prime Minister just said last Thursday that no, we don't support it, that's all. I'm sure your internal coalition meetings have made some kind of argument. Could you summarise these arguments of the Reform Party as to why they do not support it? Do they just think that money should be given to more wealthy people and let these poor people manage on their own? Or what is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U695	Thank you, Evgeny! I believe that there are those who wish to change this sickness compensation scheme in both the Central Party and the Reform Party Group. The reasons why it is not supported are very different, but the main thing is perhaps that it is thought that a person's ownership could be greater.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U696	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U697	Thank you. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! When you presented the amendments to the Fatherland, you said that the reason for not supporting them was that they were not linked to the objectives of the additional budget. I looked at the material distributed for the third reading, which is available to the members of the Riigikogu, here the purpose of the additional budget is not mentioned. Perhaps you would be so good as to say what the purpose of this additional budget is. Secondly, in this additional budget that the government has put forward, for example, money has been allocated as a support measure for sports federations, sports games, sports federations and championship clubs, etc. At the same time, the Isamaa has also proposed additional funding for sports organisations. Where are these goals here? How, then, do such proposals not coincide with this objective? Can You Explain?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U698	Thank you. The purpose of this additional budget is to reduce the impact of the virus on entrepreneurship so that business can continue its activities after the removal of restrictions and the withdrawal of the virus and the Estonian economy can quickly restore the growth power it had before the crisis. There are also additional resources in the budget to combat the virus. So this very, very narrow target is on this additional budget. Of course, one more thing was there, the issue of the payment of the second pension pillar, but the main goal is to fight the virus. As far as sport is concerned, yes, the sports sector has also been hit because training camps cannot be arranged, gyms are closed, swimming pools are closed, etc. To support them, there are resources available in the supplementary budget and the Government considers that these additional resources are sufficient and no other additional resources are needed. Therefore, your proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U699	Thank you. Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U700	[[Remote connection]] Thank you! Thank you, good Erki! I imagine that this is an uncomfortable question, but I do not think it is justified that no agreement has been reached. I'm talking about front-line workers who save lives. The nurse can't choose, she has to get into professional contact with COVID positives. A savior cannot choose where an accident occurs and who needs to be resuscitated. The police can't choose which home they come to, for example, solve a case of close-relationship violence and whether there is a COVID-positive person in the family from whom they can become infected or because of whom they can turn out to be in close contact and stay at home. They are losing, as I said, 140-160 euros in the worst case, out of their not very high wage. If you cannot answer the question as to why this is the case, I would at least ask for an answer as to whether you think it is fair.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U701	Thank you. I believe that frontier workers, including medical and police personnel, have all been vaccinated and therefore no longer need to be quarantined.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U702	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U703	Thank you. Chairman of the Commission, you said that you have answered us dozens of times, but you do understand that we are prepared to ask hundreds of times about things that are on our mind and heart. I'm reading your reasons for not being able to compensate for 100% of the first day of sickness. These are official documents. This is because, according to your reasoning, the purpose of the additional budget is to focus on what is strictly necessary. Can you also sign this sentence orally on this courtroom, you have already signed the paper, that it was not necessary to compensate people for sick days so that they would not go to work sick or spread the disease? Do you continue to believe that this is not necessary?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U704	Thank you. Of course, I understand why you want to ask this question again and again, but in order to reach an agreement, negotiations must start.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U705	Thank you. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U706	Thank you. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! You have answered the questioners here several times that the coalition did not reach an agreement. In order for members of the Riigikogu to know what was discussed in the committee and who was in favour and who was opposed, please explain who did not agree with whom and who was in favour of who was opposed. I'm very interested. This is not secret information, and the point of your report is to enlighten us on this issue. I look forward to this substantive response, which you have referred to several times. Secondly, did the debate in the Commission also have an issue of cost savings? One of the proposals of the Fatherland also concerned cost savings, was it even in the debate? If so, what was the outcome? Or didn't they come to an agreement again? And if they didn't, who didn't come to an agreement with who?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U707	Thank you. The agreement is between coalition partners. Some issues are agreed and dealt with, but some issues are not reached, and this will remain on hold until there is a desire and a will for an agreement to be made. The savings were discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the government is looking for austerity points. I believe that perhaps next week, when we are introduced to the country's budget strategy, we will have a first overview of the potential savings that the government has found when drawing up the budget strategy. And there will certainly be a better overview when discussing the additional budget for next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U708	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U709	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good vice chairman. I listened to this great debate and I have to say that there was quite a lot of information in it for me. Information mainly that an agreement was reached and that the agreement always works with each other in the coalition. However, reading that there has been an agreement with the EKRE on draft 347 today, [and given that] we have the Minister of Social Affairs from the Centre Party and the chairman of the Commission also has a Central Party, do I understand correctly that the squirrels will now be sent to the field and that a new coalition will be coming soon?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U710	Thank you. We are currently discussing draft 357.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U711	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U712	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Mr Odines said that in this Chamber we must, wherever possible, talk about what we have in our heart and soul. Since our party was the only one who had a heart for teachers and their well-being, maybe you're going to go over it again, why didn't the government want to make money for this big budget for teachers in the crisis and for their great efforts?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U713	Thank you. I believe that in this crisis all the people of Estonia, teachers, medical workers, policemen and everyone else, have worked hard and worked hard. Everyone deserves a bonus. We didn't see any sense in bringing up teachers. If so, it is for everyone, but there is no means.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U714	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U715	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good Erki! If you look at the additional budget, it can be said that the planned support measures for businesses and health are important, that wage support is indispensable because of restrictions, and that it is absolutely necessary to strive for additional resources for recovery measures and investments that will help us get out of the crisis more quickly. You're saying that the Ministry says that entrepreneurs didn't want to lower their water rates. I merely recall that, in the case of the additional budget of last year's country, it was our committee that brought it to zero and who did everything in this year's budget to ensure that, from April to December, the waterway charges would be 50%. But now we know that the crisis is difficult, and all the companies involved in ports and shipping want this fee to be zero from April to September. Please tell me, where does this sentence come from that entrepreneurs do not agree? I asked five entrepreneurs and umbrella organisations today, everyone is pressing that they have spoken to the Minister and the Ministry... (Director: "Time, Aivar!") ... that these waterway charges should be reduced to zero because it will bring the state back the money.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U716	Thank you. I am quite convinced that most taxpayers would like to pay less tax. I'm sure there are some who might be willing to pay more, but if you go to somebody and ask them, I think everyone would say they'd like to pay less. However, this 50% reduction in the water rate is the compromise found in the negotiations with the sector, and the sector estimates it to be proportionate to the losses they have suffered in a crisis situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U717	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U718	Thank you. I would like to begin by pointing out that teachers are also a very important matter for the social democrats. And I cannot in any way share Mr Savisaar's enthusiasm that all the front line workers have been vaccinated and there are no problems. I have deep doubts about that. But I'd like to talk about shoppers, they certainly haven't been vaccinated. Those who have been watching today's trial already know my story about Tatiana, a shop vendor in Kohtla-Järve. His colleague, without wanting to lose much of his salary, went to work sick and now the entire group of these small shops are at home in close contact. The minimum wage is 600 euros, and more than 100 euros will disappear from the family wallet. What do you, who do not consider this [the first day of sickness] measure to be essential, would you recommend to the shopkeeper who cries on my phone and no longer knows how to support his children?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U719	Thank you. The teachers are important to all of us, as are all the other people of Estonia, and I believe that in May and June everyone will have the opportunity to vaccinate themselves if they so wish.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U720	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U721	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. Good Erki! The Supreme Court has repeatedly said that if the law does not fulfil its purpose, it is unconstitutional. And if I look at the meaning and the idea of the budget being that these 641 million euros are intended to help the Estonian population, society and the health care system, how can you accommodate almost 50% of the government reserve? It kind of doesn't add up to the point of the law. Don't you?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U722	Thank you. The government reserve is certainly not 50%, it is about a third, and it is primarily meant for the other half of the year. If the effects of the virus increase again, funds can be taken from that reserve and do not have to come to this Riigikogu to draw up a second supplementary budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U723	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U724	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good Erki! Internet coverage is very bad here, so you don't really know when to say anything. I would like to clarify for the verbatim report that these negotiations on the percentage were still held in December last year, when you, Erki, were not in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and we did so with the Minister for Economic Affairs. At that point, no one could say there was going to be a new coalition, which is why the corona crisis has become so great that we have this problem up there in spring. Today, this sector still needs this support. Thanks to this decision, many more ships have come to Estonian ports, the money has been received much better. So this is not a cost proposal, it is actually a revenue proposal for the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U725	Thank you. It is true that I was not present in these negotiations, but the Minister for Economic Affairs has assured me that negotiations have been conducted and the sector considers that the 50% subsidy is proportionate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U726	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U727	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U728	Peter, you don't have a microphone. Peter, there's no microphone, we can't hear!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U729	[[Remote connection]] Is it working now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U730	It's working now, yeah. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U731	We're here, yeah, used to millions and hundreds of millions we move. But it got to me how my colleague Odinets is on the phone with Tamara, a shopkeeper who's crying. You didn't answer before, what would you say to this fine Kohtla-Järve shop vendor?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U732	Thank you. The case of Tamara is certainly tragic, but there is nothing to recommend at this point in this supplementary budget. You have to keep fighting, and this life will get better.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U733	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U734	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, manager. Look, Erki, you said not 50%, but 30%. Actually, the truth is 40%. And yet, how does this logic work, just in case [putting in reserve], because maybe some kind of disaster will happen in the future? Then it would make sense to make the budget the way it is to put 90% in reserve, just in case. Who and on what basis did 40% of this reserve come up with?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U735	Thank you. This reserve is not entirely for all costs. It provides for a target purpose of how much it can be spent on continuing labour market action and how much goes to local authorities. And indeed, about EUR 50 million is also money that does not have a label on it and can be used by the government for unforeseen situations that may arise.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U736	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U737	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Mr President of the Commission. Just for the sake of the verbatim report, Mr Tammearu of the Rescue Board spoke to us in the group and introduced the situation of the Rescue Board. In fact, the vaccination rate there is far from this perfect picture, but the truth is, everything takes its time. My question to you, good Erki, comes from this area, where you've given yourself a big piece of yourself, so that it gets better than the area of data transmission. Have data communication issues now reached Parliament's table with more financial focus in mind? Or is it still seen that the money is sufficient at the moment and that there is a need to deal with a procedure other than the budgetary procedure for improving data link?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U738	Thank you. In order to improve data communication, the additional budget is 1.5 million euros, divided into grants to buy a computer for families in difficulty and also to give them an Internet stick so that they can connect quickly. Of course, with regard to the development of data communication in general, I think that before the next financial allocation we must make some strategic choices here, how to get to every home and company in Estonia the fastest, and then find an appropriate financing model.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U739	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U740	Thank you. Good waitress! Thank you very much. After weeks of questioning in every briefing and every other opportunity, we have not received an answer from the Prime Minister, but now we are getting close to the truth. You have recently said that the reason why the first day of illness is not being compensated is that the responsibility should be maintained. Can you explain a little bit about what that means? Why should a corona-positive person or a person designated for close contact have a responsibility in the context of an epidemic? Is it his own fault that he got the korona, for example the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia, is responsible for the fact that he got the korona? Or what does that logic come from? Is this some kind of punishment? What is it trying to motivate?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U741	Thank you. We did not discuss this issue in the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U742	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U743	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! This government is known for the fact that, on the one hand, you are solving the crisis, but at the same time, you are also creating a great deal more crisis. For example, in Ida-Virumaa, you leave 10,000 energetics unemployed and pay them some kind of Europenne instead of self-respectable maintenance. Your greening will inevitably lead to the shut-down of the oil plant, which would have provided the state budget with an estimated revenue of EUR 100 billion. It could have supported both our good teachers and other good Estonian people for coping with the crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U744	Thank you. I can't imagine where these numbers are coming from. As far as I know, there are no 10,000 energetics in Ida-Viru County. But I have to say that we did not discuss oil shale issues in the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U745	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U746	Thank you. I understand that somewhere you managed to find out that this responsibility was a red towel for someone. If you have not understood why he is [the red towel], tell me who [he is the red towel]. Then we can keep asking that person.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U747	Thank you. I think there's more than one of these people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U748	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U749	[[Remote connection]] Of course, there are difficulties with mathematics for the middle party; they do not understand that, if the energetics lose their jobs, hundreds and thousands of other people who are involved in this field, mining and mining companies, transport, etc. will lose their jobs. But what if you don't know how to put two plus two together and they think two plus two is three? Well, okay. After all, we see this in other areas. My question concerns [retirement reform]. Why are you hiding up to 300 million euros from the state budget in connection with pension reform? The Centre Party should know this very well, we in the previous government calculated these things quite nicely and accounted for this money in the budget. Why are you hiding it now? In order to start giving gifts to local government leaders and all their other jackets in a typical, middle-party, corrupt way before the elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U750	Good Mart! Don't scare the crowd! The production of oil shale energy and [oil shale] energy will continue for at least another 20 years.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U751	Helmen, Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U752	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. My question is whether you discussed in the Commission what the money is to be allocated to local governments. There is a great deal of talk that municipalities can fix the ventilation of schools [for this money], even pay support to teachers and social workers, and very, very much more. In addition, Tallinn also pays compensation for the first day of sickness, which the state could have done. The municipality shouldn't have used the money, the little one, to pay the compensation. However, several municipalities have complained that, compared to the previous government and last spring, the amount of money allocated to local governments is now half as much. Did you discuss the relationship? What is the ratio and amount of funding allocated to local authorities last year and now, the financial allocation planned with this budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U753	Thank you. Well, it is an ever-present dispute that which costs should be borne directly by the State from the central government budget and which could be covered by the local government. The money allocated to the municipalities is not with a specific label. There is a whole list of suggestions that could be used for this money, including all the activities you listed. It is possible for the municipality to use this money for all the activities that the municipality carries out. However, we did not calculate the ratio of the additional budget for the previous year [and now for the additional budget] in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U754	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U755	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! You mentioned earlier that these agreements were reached with the coalition partner and that, once agreed, that is the case. Now I'm just a little bit confused with the big A-star. We have the Prime Minister saying that we would do something together, we have a crisis like this so that all political parties need [cooperation] now, but it actually turns out that no, an agreement is still being made with the coalition. Now, which one of you is afraid of this cooperation? Is this the Centre Party, or is this the Reform Party? Maybe I'd like to know who's throwing the wool. I believe you're an honest man, that if it's still a coalition, that's what it is, and Echo throws it out of the villa, we'll work together a little bit.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U756	Thank you. Cooperation is not a threat either to the Centre Party or to the Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U757	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you. We can go to the negotiations. Only the representatives of the political groups can take the floor in the negotiations. First of all, from the Kersti Sarapuu Central Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U758	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good ambassadors and wiretap followers! I am pleased that we have finally reached the third reading of the supplementary budget with the agenda. After all, the opposition may receive short-term attention with the tightened stretching tactics, but I think we need to look at the bigger picture. The health sector, businesses and cultural and sporting representatives are looking forward to the adoption of an additional budget. Instead of delaying time, all energy should have been directed to reaching the Estonian people as soon as possible. In the grocery store's register, procedural questions cannot be used as a pretext; money must also be paid for food. Companies also need to pay loans, leases and utility bills alongside wages. The Centre Party Group is of the opinion that the supplementary budget must be dealt with with with the utmost seriousness, rather than seeking personal attention with secondary themes. We have an additional budget of EUR 641 million. A significant part of this, more than EUR 150 million, goes to the health sector. On behalf of the Centre Party Group, however, I would like to focus this time on the support fund allocated to local authorities. The additional budget is EUR 46 million for local authorities. EUR 16 million from the Fund shall be broken down by basic amount and number of inhabitants. In the case of Ida-Virumaa, where the negative impact on municipal income has been greater, the aid per capita is estimated at 1.5 times. The purpose of the Fund is to partially mitigate the loss of revenue and increase in expenditure. EUR 1 million is intended to improve the availability of internet access and digital learning materials in students' homes during the distance learning period in order to ensure equal access to education for students. The money is distributed on the basis of the number of school-age children. The municipality will decide on the more precise use itself. The Fund shall be divided by a government regulation. Thus, EUR 16 million can be distributed as soon as the additional budget enters into force at the end of April. I call on the local government leaders to make full use of the funds to help the population. In addition, the investment aid granted to local authorities is EUR 30 million, i.e. the maximum amount of the aid is calculated for each municipality. The basic amount per municipality is EUR 50000, the rest being divided by the number of inhabitants. The purpose of the investment aid is to promote local employment and the economy. This money allows cities and municipalities to make the necessary investments as they see fit, such as improving ventilation systems, building and renovating buildings, dismantling old buildings, purchasing IT security-compliant servers. The minimum amount of support per project is EUR 30000, and in the smaller islands EUR 10000. Municipalities must submit a list of projects by 1 December at the latest. Although this is only one small part of the additional budget of EUR 641 million, I believe that we all agree with this additional budget and we will adopt it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U759	Helir-Valdor Seeder from the Fatherland faction, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U760	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Sometimes, some budgets get better during the procedure. Unfortunately, this was not the case with this bill. I very much regret that the opposition's good proposals, which would have improved the quality of this draft and enabled better use of money, were not accepted. But what's the matter, so unfortunately this time is again. The Fatherland Group made a reasonable number of proposals, we have not delayed, the proposals were substantive. In our opinion, this additional budget provides modest support for entrepreneurship. The revival of entrepreneurship should have been supported by this package considerably more than the draft proposed by the government. There is no question of cost savings in this budget; in essence, this has not been discussed in the course of the procedure. The answer given today by the chairman of the Commission that possible future savings will also be discussed in the context of discussions on the national budget strategy in the coming weeks is, in itself, an anecdotic situation where we know that several planned expenditures will actually be lost in this year's budget, and this money can be channelled into other essential expenditures. Yes, the direct objective of this additional budget is the topics related to COVID and the funding of science is, as if, not directly within this objective. But this could and should be treated as a correction of errors that has unfortunately been left out when we made efforts to finance science after long years to 1% of gross domestic product. And see, as a result of this, certain areas of funding will be reduced, not increased, in this financial year. So I would have expected the correction of the errors with this additional budget. As far as our other proposals are concerned, such as additional funding for rapid tests and a number of other proposals, it must be said that the objective of the coalition in drawing up the additional budget has been less ambitious. However, I would like to point out once again that, as a precedent, it has been decided to make an additional budget as such which does not comply with the requirements of the basic law, according to which all the revenue and expenditure provided for and known by law should be included in the budget or in the supplementary budget. This has unfortunately not been the case with this budget. EUR 300 million in income The Minister of Finance has told the public about all sorts of versions of the use of this money, but I am reminding the Minister of Finance about where this money is actually going. That's right. It's beautifully written in the coalition agreement. If the Minister of Finance wanted to read it, he would see that the chapter on social security states that we are directing the money released from the reform of the second pillar of the pension to the tax-free conversion of the average old-age pension and the extraordinary increase in pension. That's what he's going for. And, in fact, the money that comes into the budget through the social tax should be used and used only for pension increases. So that's where the money was planned. Nicely and honestly, this could have been recognised and budgeted well. Well, what the hell. I'll have three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U761	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U762	[[Remote connection]] What the hell. As the additional budget is actually needed for the Estonian state, the entrepreneurs are waiting, the local authorities are waiting, people expect the expenditure planned with the additional budget to open up in different areas, so it is better to have a bad supplementary budget than any additional budget at all. The Fatherland Group does not support the adoption of this additional budget, but we will not vote against it either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U763	Mr Savisaar, the speech of the Centre Party has been made. Would you like to perform with a reply? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U764	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Helir referred here to the chairman of the committee, and I think I should explain this subject a little bit. Of course, ministries have also been instructed to find savings for this year and to channel the resources that have been saved immediately into crisis measures or to mitigate the effects of the crisis without having to go through the state budget. But, in general, I would like to thank the opposition for its constructive nature in the process of processing this additional budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U765	Evgeny Ossinovski has a procedure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U766	Thank you, Mr President. I also thank Erki Savisaar! But, Mr President, am I wrong to have the right to speak in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act for people who themselves have participated in the round of negotiations? If their name or person or views are mentioned in subsequent speeches, they will be able to respond. But Erki Savisaar didn't speak in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U767	As far as I know, anyone whose name has been mentioned or has been referred to may be involved in negotiations with a reply, but I can go beyond that. Riina Sikkut, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U768	Thank you, good manager. I'd like three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U769	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U770	Ladies and gentlemen, Helir-Valdor Seedri must be accepted; the additional budget could not be improved during the procedure. And the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, thanks to the opposition, is entirely justified. The opposition was constructive, supported the rapid handling of the additional budget and kept the focus on the crisis. The additional budget is intended to compensate for the damage caused by the restrictions and to cover the costs of the virus. That is exactly what the Social Democrats did with their single amendment. Our amendment was a clear crisis measure: to compensate 100% of the first day for the days of corona-positive and close contact. Now we are going to vote on an additional budget with a crisis-related cost of EUR 641 million. But what's missing? The generous reimbursement of sick days is missing, it was not supported. How, then, can we control the spread of the infection? Yesterday, we were all able to read how the Health Board pointed out that we had work stations at the forefront, and how the bosses were hiding close contact data. There is a problem that the employer does not allow them to be published and does not want to be self-insulated in close contact. So far, 71% of the monsters are in the workplace and the infection is being transferred to their homes. People's daily contacts take place in many ways at work; other areas are already regulated by restrictions. Contacts take place at work and teleworking is not possible in all positions. Therefore, in order to limit the spread of the infection, it is essential that people with positive test results and their close contacts follow the rules of isolation and that people with symptoms go for testing. [It is essential that] no one is afraid to go testing for a possible positive test result and that all close contacts are given in large groups, so that a worker-friendly employer does not have to ask who wants to be in close contact because he knows that not everyone can afford to stay home. As in healthcare in general, prevention is more effective than treatment. Preventing the spread of infection is more effective than compensating for damage caused by restrictions. So EUR 8.5 million to compensate for sick days versus EUR 641 million to cover the costs of coping with the rest of the healthcare system virus or to alleviate the damage caused by restrictions. But no, the generous reimbursement of sick days was not supported. To be honest, it is all the more bizarre that the coalition agreement clearly states: "We consider it important to reduce social, economic and regional inequalities and to promote the health and well-being of every person. " Really? The government keeps saying that people are responsible, that they are responsible for their livelihood, that they are responsible for earning income, that they are sick, that they themselves remain isolated. A minimum wage earner loses about EUR 100 if he stays at home for two weeks; as a crisis measure, we could remove the penalty for staying at home from him. But right now we are demanding this fine and so, in fact, we are increasing economic inequality. Since people receiving higher than average salaries do much work that can be done at home, the risk of infection is minimised for them. Even if they turn out to be close contact, they can continue to work at home. However, most workers still have to go to the production building or to an object or to a larger group to carry out their work. It ensures that we have food on the table, food comes to the front door and shop. But because of the nature of the work, the risk of infection is clearly greater than that of a home worker. As a result, a person with a lower salary will become more infected and lose in wages, with the loss of wages much more painful than a worker with a higher salary. Social inequality is increasing. Repeatedly, members of the government have confirmed that more generous compensation for sick days is an effective measure and has a positive impact and can be implemented, but local authorities can do so themselves. And even though we have an epidemic nationwide, we do not have Hiiumaa or Võru alone in the fight against the spread of infection, it turns out that the city of Tallinn has both a desire and a financial opportunity to compensate more generously for sick days. So the coroner of Tallinn gets more support from public money than the rest of Estonia for staying at home. At the same time, we are financing the additional budget jointly with the loan, we are repaying it all, but the benefits are currently being realised by the Tallinnans and regional inequalities are increasing. How is it possible that the very fundamental starting points set out in the coalition agreement are those that are already being decided against when drawing up the additional budget? Despite the request not to increase social, economic and regional inequalities, this is what is happening. We have heard the Prime Minister, the Minister for Finance, the Minister for Health and Labour, the Minister for Regional Administration confirm that, of course, compensation for the first day is an effective measure, but the government does not support it, it simply does not support it, there is no agreement. The alternative is not offered to avoid job spots, but the constructive opposition proposal is also not supported, although I think it is an important instrument for the government to still contain the spread of infection after the restrictions have been relaxed. After all, the compensation goes where the infection, it does not distinguish between a large and small enterprise, the tourism and agricultural sectors, it moves with the infection. That's what wins those affected by the disease. Raimond Kaljulaid pointed out the loss of nurses, policemen and rescuers in income for two weeks [in case of isolation]. These are frontier workers who cannot avoid the risk of infection or who cannot in any way choose whether to go to work or not. We heard the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs' reply that they had been vaccinated. Well, of course it isn't. They've been offered a chance to get vaccinated, but right now we're in a situation where one in three sisters, one in three rescuers, every other cop is unvaccinated. Is the loss of income associated with sickness benefit the government's way of punishing unvaccinated people? If there is such a plan, it must be said and implemented over and over, not so everywhere, except in Tallinn. The Social Democrats tabled an amendment to a clear crisis measure which was not supported. Our bill for compensation for sick days was rejected. They just said it wasn't supported, without arguments. Just wasn't supported. But in this case, the Social Democrats cannot support the additional budget either. Today we are voting against the additional budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U771	Only the representatives of the political groups can speak during the negotiations, so I cannot give the floor to Raimond Kaljulaid. However, I would like to clarify the procedural question with which Evgeni Ossinovski was on the air and which concerns the line. Paragraph 70 (1) of the [Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu] states that if the person of a member of the Riigikogu, or the views contained in his speech, is concerned in another speech, the President of the sitting may give him an answer, with only once during the debate on one of the items on the agenda. True, the comment states that [this possibility] can only be limited to those who have participated in the debate, or negotiations, but the paragraph itself does not limit it. Jürgen Ligi will take the floor from the Reform Party. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U772	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! I would also like to start by thanking the opposition. You were constructive, albeit annoying as always, and we will probably be able to adopt this crisis relief package without your vote. But thank you for letting me work! I'm asking for three more minutes, just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U773	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U774	[[Remote connection]] First of all, I note that there should be no additional budgets at all if governments were responsible or if there were no crises. Normally, we could get through the crisis without it, but in this case, some automatic incentives are clearly inadequate and additional money is needed. This additional budget is now needed because of both irresponsibility and the crisis. And, unfortunately, long-term budgetary sluggishness does not allow all expectations to be met. We have entered the crisis from the years of growth, not with a strong stock, but with a deep structural deficit. The fixed costs base was already higher than the revenue base before the crisis... [[The connection's breaking up.]] However, this additional budget covers the most direct costs of the crisis, it mitigates the damage to the crisis and it corrects errors in the basic budget. But, as has been said, for some very special budgetary stimulus, budgetary policy in recent years has not left considerable room. But, of course, this fiscal stimulus must not be done on the basis of the previous Minister for Finance, who has the words that this money is going somewhere, nor does he go into the molehole. But the most natural costs of crisis are now in the supplementary budget for the medical system and wage subsidies. The latter have worked well, they are internationally recognised as an effective measure to stabilise and mitigate the situation. Of course, in medicine there are many additional costs, which are not included in the basic budget... [[The connection's breaking up.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U775	Jürgen, sound quality is very bad, we can't hear you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U776	Unfortunately, due to the restrictions imposed, it is necessary to pay more compensation for culture, sport, catering, bus routes...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U777	Jürgen, you've lost the sound.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U778	However, the link between crisis suffering and justifications was weak in the supplementary budget and the basic budget, which must be acknowledged. Of course, little support for tourism, for example, some strange political stigma was attached to it, and, of course, a lot of business related to government politicians. We have actually been talking about this for almost a year, and today's Estonian Express writes a little about it, not all of it. It must be said that, unfortunately, a good quarter of the budget is spent on things that are simply excluded from the budget, such as the disbursements of the second pillar, which should be made in September for those who stop collecting. This amount is over EUR 100 million and there is no adequate justification here. Further, elementary things that are not directly related to another wave, such as vaccines and tests, are completely inadequate. These amounts are far from inadequate in the basic budget. Very embarrassing. But a couple of answers to this fine, albeit annoying opposition. If there was a party here talking about some sort of austerity, I would ask where the savings were last year...... according to which the revenue base, which has lasted five years, and now they're going to talk about them... [[The connection's breaking up.]] Now, the second stupidity is this talk about some sort of income cover-up. Revenue forecasts are not part of this additional budget, revenue forecasts are... [[The connection's breaking up.]] We can't change it anymore, but they don't make it that way that one source of revenue is taken and then it's predicted and then it's distributed. No. Income tax is fundamental here; social tax is expected to be separately after. What else scratches my ear is always this talk about local governments, like they're something out of state and some kind of social risk group. Let us be honest, the nature of this crisis is not such that there should be some sort of cost compensation. Municipalities are part of the country. In this case, it is still a state budget and the main burden of dealing with this crisis falls to the state itself. It is a matter of course, if it were to be politely worded that the country would alleviate the crisis in cooperation with the municipalities. But right now they're just saying that they have little money and the country, the native rich, pays for it... [[The connection's breaking up.]] In conclusion, I thank the Riigikogu for its constructive debate and I hope that this will also happen with other drafts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U779	Thank you. Raimond Kaljulaid has a procedure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U780	Thank you very much, Mr President. I wanted, yes, to make it clear that I actually wanted the word to be a reply, because Riina Sikkut mentioned me in her speech during the negotiations. There is an important nuance that needs to be clarified. Do I have the right to speak for this reply or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U781	Well, while you're on the line, give me your line.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U782	Thank you very much. Both the waitress Erki Savisaar and the waitress Riina Sikkut talked about frontline workers and it was about how much of them have been vaccinated. Riina Sikkut was very right about the police rescuers. However, it is also important to point out here that not all frontier workers are civil servants who have been offered the possibility of vaccination. [Principal workers] are also private security and commercial workers, for example. I think it is important to remember that the level of vaccination in these target groups is very low and that they very much need compensation for sick days.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U783	So, now the negotiations are over and we can go to the examination of the amendments. It should be clarified that amendments cannot, as a general rule, be voted during the third reading. I will read them to you in the table of amendments. The first amendment is tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the decision of the commission is to disregard it and the proposal is not to be voted on. The second amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Fatherland; the decision of the commission is to disregard it. The proposal is not subject to voting in accordance with § 120 (5) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act. The third amendment is tabled by the Group of the Fatherland; the position of the commission is to disregard it. The proposal shall not be subject to the vote. The fourth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs itself; the Commission itself has taken full account of it. Fifth has been submitted by the Group of the Fatherland; the position of the commission is not to take this into account. The proposal shall not be put to the vote. The six amendments are from the Isamaa Group, the commission has not taken this into account and the proposal will not be put to the vote either. The seventh amendment is also tabled by the Group of the Fatherland; the commission has decided not to do so. The proposal shall not be subject to the vote. The eighth and last amendment has again been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs itself. The Commission has taken full account of this, a surprise surprise. We have examined the amendments. The commission has proposed that the draft be put to the final vote on 357. Let's get to the vote. I am voting on the draft Act 357 on the Additional Budget of 2021, initiated by the Government of the Republic. This is a final vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U784	We have received a message that our electronic voting system is not working for all participants. I'll take a two-minute break. I shall cancel the previous vote. But before we go back to the vote, we're going to carry out a presence check to see if the system is working. Incoming check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U785	There were 90 delegates registered, and the person who earlier signaled that he had no system in place is now in place. Let's go back to the vote. Once again, I will put to the final vote the draft Act 357 on the additional budget for 2021 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U786	No protests have been received. There are 73 parliamentarians in favour of the draft, nine against, no abstentions. The supplementary budget has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U787	Let's continue with the exciting legislation. The draft Act on the ratification of the Protocol on the Amendment of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Moldova, initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Estonia, is still well within this date. This is the second reading of the draft and the rapporteur is Siret Kotka, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U788	[[Remote connection]] Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Social Committee discussed the preparation for second reading of the draft Act 318 on the ratification of the Protocol amending the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Moldova, initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic of Estonia, including on 6 April. There were no amendments to the draft law, and the Commission decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda and that the final vote be taken on 14 April or today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U789	Thank you. Questions can be asked to the rapporteur. I don't see any questions. Ah, there's a question on Tarmo Kruus Hill, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U790	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good vice chairman. I'll ask you a more specific question. Is this [the draft] also relevant to the Transnistrian region? In case he doesn't touch, how does your cooperation partner, United Russia, view it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U791	[[Remote connection]] Good questioner! This draft concerns the social agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Moldova.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U792	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U793	[[Remote connection]] Good waitress! Based on Tarmo, I ask whether Moldova is, in our country's opinion, a political community without Transnistria.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U794	[[Remote connection]] Good people, once again, this bill concerns the ratification of the Protocol amending the Social Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Moldova. Take it and look at it any way you like.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U795	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U796	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good vice chairman. [I mean,] how [your answer] politically correct to say is not bad, Sherlock! I too read that there is the Republic of Estonia and Moldova. I just wanted to know how you dealt with Moldova. With Transnistria or without Transnistria? But since the title is like this, you might want to try a little more [to open the topic]. We can read, we all know the Latin alphabet.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U797	[[Remote connection]] Thanks for the comment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U798	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U799	[[Remote connection]] [Is Transnistria] party to that agreement or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U800	[[Remote connection]] ... The composition of the Republic of Moldova in this agreement exists.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U801	There are no further questions, or there are. Mr Ossinovski also has a question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U802	[[Remote connection]] This is indeed an important question. Did the Committee on Social Affairs address the issue of, for example, the emergence of supplementary pension or other rights if they have arisen in the territory of Transnistria, for example, by working with its employer there? In what way will this matter be addressed?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U803	[[Remote connection]] Once again, when we are talking about Moldova, the Protocol takes into account the requirements arising from the European Union General Data Protection Regulation and the amendments proposed by the other party to the Agreement, which have been made by virtue of the Moldovan pension system. There too, for example, disability pension has been replaced by disability pension. These are the changes that we made all of this. First and foremost, when we talk about this agreement, Estonia needed to amend this agreement primarily because Estonia has also undergone a work capacity reform, and as a result, the disability pension will no longer be granted in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U804	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U805	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good waitress! As soon as it gets hot, I'll ask you about it, but not about Transnistria. Just for the sake of interest: how many people are affected by this now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U806	[[Remote connection]] Wait a minute. When we are talking about incapacity for work, we do not have those who are unable to work in Moldova. However, when we talk about Estonian old-age pension recipients in Moldova, there were seven in 2019, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U807	I told you, it's exciting lawmaking. No further questions. No amendments have been tabled to this draft law. And now we can go to the negotiations. Tarmo Kruusimäe from the Isamaa faction, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U808	[[Remote connection]] Thank you! I understand we have a second reading, and now we can talk calmly. I'll just speak for myself. I suppose you can hear me. This computer or the technique I have here...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U809	I can hear you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U810	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good folklore! This question is not actually as monotonous and as simple as it seems. We have at this moment the Foreign Minister has gone to Ukraine, but it is known that Crimea has been occupied and annexed. These people were allowed to join, and I think they joined the pension system of the Russian Federation. As regards half of the region of Lugansk and Donetsk, the people there say they do not want to be in Ukraine, but they do want to receive a pension from the Ukrainian state. One such question is whether, at the moment we conclude this agreement, people who do not really want to be [in Ukraine] and who are financially assisted by Russia will get legitimacy from us to this very thing. Do we recognise occupied areas, say, under the concept of territorial integrity? But how do you give [support] to people who are not loyal and live in another information room, another system, and who say that they do not want to receive anything from this country? This is a relatively complex [situation] of state law, isn't it? It's what we're looking at here? Our current Minister of Foreign Affairs is [that] as he is. I'm hoping that maybe at some point the Prime Minister will take away that speech card from him, you know, because otherwise he'll see that, oh, there's nothing to do, oh, see, I'm gonna wire Lavrov here so he can do something. Maybe he'll go to Ukraine and say, yes, Ukraine is like this, but Crimea is an ancient Russian area, and that's not what we're dealing with. Those are the questions. In fact, there was also a similar situation today with regard to the independence efforts of the Catalans, and we did not get that obvious answer. If we conclude such agreements, unfortunately, Russia's neighbouring countries have such frozen conflicts. If, now, there are going to be a lot of people who say that they are all beneficiaries of this pension or that they should have that right, first of all, as a country, we can assume financial responsibilities, but secondly, the concern is that the people of Moldova may not be very happy if it extends to these citizens as well. That should be discussed now. Otherwise, money will come, it will be cheap for Europe, and we can support everyone, we are a developed country. But for me, yes, the question is whether we, as the Republic of Estonia, are dealing with Moldova together with Transnistria, and what about the citizens of the Russian Federation who live in Transnistria, Moldova, but in their opinion they are no longer Moldovan citizens. It's a little complicated for me, but I understand that it was clear to everyone in the Social Affairs Committee as soap water, and since this [draft] comes from the Ministry of Social Affairs, I'm not surprised at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-14_U811	I don't see any more requests for negotiation. We can go to the vote. The commission has proposed a final vote of 318 on the draft. Let's get ready. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft Act 318 on the ratification of the Protocol amending the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Moldova. Please take a stand and vote.
