ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-15_U1	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the Monday session of the 8th working week of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Please! Now, I'm asking Mrs. Heili Tõnisson, the representative of the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-15_U2	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. First, the draft law on public health. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Health and Labour when the bill is being processed. Secondly, the draft law implementing the Cohesion and Internal Security Policy Funds of the European Union for the period 2021/2027. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance. Both of these drafts have been transmitted electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-15_U3	Thank you. On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Good colleagues, we're conducting a presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-15_U4	80 members of the Riigikogu registered, no 21. Let us now go to the adoption of this week's agenda and begin the preparation of this vote. Can we go to the vote? Thank you. I am voting on the approval of the 8th working week agenda of the V Plenary Session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-15_U5	With the result of 82 votes against 2 and 2 abstentions, the agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-15_U6	And now, good fellows, I would ask everyone, after a hammer hit, to register for a speech in a free microphone. Who wants it? Jürgen Ligi, do you have a wish? No, it's not. We have a requester online. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-15_U7	[[Remote connection]] Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if you can hear me.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-15_U8	Yeah, I can hear you. But with a little louder voice.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-15_U9	Yeah. You hear that now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-15_U10	I can hear you, but a little louder, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-15_U11	Got it. What do you want me to say? In fact, colleagues should speak much more. The meeting of Glasgow, which lasted for two weeks, just ended, fighting to prevent heat death from occurring. My attitude isn't exactly the same. But we could discuss it here. What does that really mean? It has been said that we have a lost nation of miners in Ida-Viru County and that they should be retrained as someone else. In fact, in order to achieve the green turning goals, many more mines should be opened in the world. Yeah, maybe not in Estonia. But in Afghanistan, for example, where we were forced to come out as a recently beaten dog, and in many other places. I am pleased that a bit of this will be discussed on Thursday on the initiative of the Committee on European Union Affairs. But there's a lot more to talk about. I didn't take the floor procedurally today, but for the second week, our agenda has been exceptionally unbalanced. On Monday, there's a check-in and a confirmation of the agenda, and that's all. Wednesday's agenda is scary long or that way. A totally unbalanced week, you can't agree with that. It actually gives people who work eight hours, at least visually, a very bad impression. What else would I like to tell you? Oh, yeah, now that the bear farm has been destroyed by a bill, they've gone after the fish. I read in the paper today that on the Christmas market in Tartu, where they want to put out aquarium fish, these very extremely radical animal rights have already come up with such a demand that putting fish in a glass box is, if not a crime, animal torture. The Fisherman program hasn't gone anywhere. So, in fact, much more should be discussed, talk about matters, but not at the sight of the fish to confirm the agendas of our Riigikogu for the second week, where there is nothing in the big hall some days and then some days goes out for the night. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-15_U12	Thank you. There are no more calls and the free microphone round is over. Good fellows, today's session is closed.
