ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U1	Good fellows! Honourable Riigikogu! Good afternoon. We will begin the Monday session of the 3rd working week of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. [[It's ringing the bell.]] Please ask Mrs Heili Tõnisson, representative of the Government of the Republic, to the Riigikogu's speech chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U2	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! Today, the Government of the Republic initiates eight draft laws and submits 11 draft decisions of the Riigikogu. First, the draft law amending the State Budget Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance in the proceedings of the draft law. Secondly, the draft law amending the Electronic Communications Act, the Building Code and the State Fees Act. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology. Third, the draft law on family mediation. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Social Protection when the bill is being processed. Fourthly, the draft law amending the law implementing the common agricultural policy of the European Union. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Rural Affairs in the proceedings of the draft law. Fifthly, the draft law amending the Environmental Monitoring Act. Sixthly, the draft law amending the General Part of the Environmental Code and other laws (repealing the Environmental Register Act). In processing these two draft laws in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of the Environment. Seventh, a draft law amending competition law and related amendments to other laws. Eightth, draft law amending state fees, civil procedure and other laws. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Justice when these two draft laws are processed in the Riigikogu. Now the draft decision of the 11 Riigikogu. First, "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the United Kingdom'. Secondly, "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the European Union Training Mission in Mozambique." Third, "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State during the international military operation "Inhenent Resolve." Fourthly, "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation mission in Iraq." Fifthly, "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the European Union military mission Eunafor MEDI IRINI." Sixthly, "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation preparedness units." Seventhly, "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the European Union Training Mission and the United Nations Peace Mission in Mali." Eighthly, "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria." Ninthly, "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the international obligations of the Estonian State during a military operation led by France in the target unit Takuba Mali and Niger." Tenth, "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State for the first time contributing to this in a military operation led by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or its Member State, the European Union or the United Nations." By the eleventh, "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the UN peacekeeping mission in Lebanon." In the Riigikogu, the Minister of Defence represents the Government of the Republic when dealing with these 11 draft decisions of the Riigikogu. All 19 drafts have been transmitted electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U3	Thank you. There's no more calls. On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted 19 drafts and the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Good colleagues, we're conducting a presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U4	81 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 20 missing. Let us now go to the clarification of today's agenda and then to the approval. We have a few clarifications regarding the working week agenda. Firstly, the Committee on Culture has proposed to remove the third item on the agenda of today's sitting, namely the "Cultural Development Plan 2021 2030." Secondly, with the agreement of the parties to the hearing, the reply to Question 82 scheduled for today's fourth item on the agenda is postponed. Indrek Saar, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Would you be so kind as to explain to us why these points that Minister of Culture, Anneli Ot, are being taken out of [the day] today? What is its substantive justification?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U6	As far as I know, the substantive justification is that the Minister of Culture is unable to attend today's session. Indrek Saar, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U7	Would you mind telling me why the Minister of Culture is unable to attend today's session?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U8	As far as I know, he must be self-insulated. That's all I know. Indrek Saar, third procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U9	In a situation where the Minister of Culture, like all members of the government, has been given priority over vaccination, which he would have been able to do his job, perhaps to answer an inquiry in the Riigikogu today, and perhaps even more importantly, to participate in the debate on the development plan that is important for his entire field, so that it does not delay indefinitely, does it seem to you, in this situation, as the chair of the sitting, that a member of the government has behaved respectfully and with sufficient responsibility for both Parliament and his field?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U10	Thank you. This is certainly not the subject of a procedural question to start dissecting specific human health data here. This is not a procedural question. Thank you. Let us now begin the preparation of the voting on the agenda... I'm sorry! A procedural question, Helir-Valdor Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U11	Thank you. I have a procedural question concerning the Thursday agenda for the working week, which provides for a debate on a key national issue. Is it true that there are 15 minutes for waiters to ask questions? If that is the case, if we think together that this is a crucial national issue, then within 15 minutes, perhaps five people can ask, which means that perhaps one person from each political group, if they have a quick finger, will be able to ask a question. Is it a reasonable and normal discussion of a crucial national question when 101 of the members of the Riigikogu maybe four or five will be able to ask their question in good time? Is the Bureau convinced that such an item is reasonable and appropriate?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U12	Thank you. The Bureau has approved this initiative by the Centre Party Group. I think you are asking about reasonableness, bearing in mind that the four-day sitting is normally three hours. I think it might be a question, maybe it isn't. We know that the report, as far as I know, is at least three first minutes, but perhaps everyone, I do not have this information at hand at the moment, exactly how much time there is for the presentations, and it is always possible to extend the sitting by an hour if this House considers it right. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U13	Yeah, thanks! I'm referring to the exact same thing. Korona is on our agenda right now, interfering with our day-to-day activities. Would it not be possible to simply remove a couple of performers from there, for example, so that all envoys can still ask questions to a specialist in their field? Because, well, the Korobenik we see here, and Tane and I have no answer. Perhaps such an exchange would create a better situation and the ambassadors would get a response from the specialists in their field?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U14	Thank you. These OTRKs can be initiated by political groups, and the groups will certainly discuss how many rapporteurs there are and who they are. But I believe that Mr Korobenik, in addition to this OTRK, is ready to give you good answers here in the corridors of the Riigikogu, if you have any questions. Helir-Valdor Seeder, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U15	Thank you. My question is motivated by your answer. It is not the extension of the three-hour [session] period of 15 minutes which has been given to answer the questions. Fifteen minutes is still 15 minutes. If the Bureau maintains its proposal, questions can be asked for 15 minutes and the possibility to ask questions is closed, there is no need to extend three hours to four. My question was, isn't 15 minutes an abnormally short time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U16	I think it was in accordance with the applicant's wishes, and so did the Bureau. As a rule, the board of directors... I certainly don't have as much practice as you do, but we haven't changed these OTRKs very much. We can certainly find [a situation] that has changed, but in this case, the board did not consider it necessary. Urmas Reinsalu, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U17	Thank you, Mr President. My question is a bit more procedural in nature, and it concerns that we are now again carriers of the rise in virus infection in Europe, when we look at the relative infection per 100000 people. Shouldn't this be the moment when, on behalf of the government, the Prime Minister comes before Parliament with his presentation to present the government's approach to keeping society open at the current stage of the rise of the virus, to combating the virus and to vaccination as a whole? As a substitute for this, a discussion of a coalition group with the involvement of experts has been proposed. Would it not be reasonable to organise without delay a presentation by the Prime Minister, after which it will also be possible to hold a debate by the political forces of Parliament on the measures that the government is planning to take in the current context of the spread of the virus and which, in the view of the political forces in Parliament, it is reasonable to apply without stretching to counter the accelerated spread of the virus?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U18	Thank you for this procedural question. I also say more broadly that this opportunity has been given by law. If a member of the government, including the Prime Minister, wishes to make a political statement, this opportunity always exists and I think the Riigikogu has reacted quickly rather than slowly. Kalle Grünthal, please, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U19	Thank you, Mr President. In my opinion, it has been brought to Thursday's day by OTRK "How to reach a restricted Estonia?" a very important point. The proposal is absolutely good and correct, but this proposal should not become a political farce, where we show the people that we want to debate on this subject, but we are not really doing a substantive debate. Dear Helir-Valdor Seeder absolutely rightly pointed out that this 15 minutes to ask questions is a joke. We show that we're doing something, but we're not really doing anything. If we want a restricted Estonia, which is currently absolutely the point number one in society after the electricity prices, then it is necessary to take this issue seriously and so that every member of the Riigikogu can ask at least one question. I would therefore ask the Bureau to review this question and change the time for asking questions so that all members of the Riigikogu can seriously discuss the issue of Estonia without restrictions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U20	Thank you. Indeed, according to our Home and Working Procedures Act, every political group can do OTRK at its discretion once a year. In this case, the central fraction has seen as the most important question this year of how to reach a restricted Estonia in a pandemic, has proposed its performers and each group has the opportunity to hold this debate. There are also negotiations where politicians, representatives of the group, can convey their views on the fight against this pandemic. Tarmo Kruusimäe, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U21	Thank you, good Chairman! I agree with all of this that the political groups can do as they see fit. I remember there was an OTRK at some point where no one could ask questions, but my memory might be wrong. I mean, perhaps it would also be better if we could say that the question is being asked by the chair of the group, so that the group can discuss who is asking the question and what the question is. Just as with speeches, because 15 minutes means that each political group can ask its own question. Otherwise, there will be a quick round of fingers, which maybe gives the strange and strange impression that the group has a question, but someone else will ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U22	Thank you. Of course, if the political group decides so, then this can be followed voluntarily by the members of the group. However, I think that a member of the Riigikogu is free in his mandate, it must be respected, and if a member of the Riigikogu wishes to ask, regardless of which political group he belongs to, he will receive this opportunity. Kalle Grünthal, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U23	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. However, I still do not understand the Central Party's thinking at the moment that they will only allow 15 minutes of debate on this crucial issue to be answered by people. The fact that we can give our speech here after each of us is not an exit, because these same three persons, both Tanel Kiik, Peep Talving and Irja Lutsar, are directly involved in imposing these restrictions. They should therefore provide full, full answers to the questions. The claim that this was decided by the Centre Party Group is not relevant at all. This is still decided by the Riigikogu Board and the Riigikogu Board should intervene here right now in order to get the full truth about the imposition of these restrictions. So once again, Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu, let the Bureau meet and decide on this issue in such a way that all members of the Riigikogu can contribute to this debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U24	Thank you. The Board of the Riigikogu has gathered on this issue and has unanimously supported the approach that is currently on the table before us. We will begin the preparation of the voting on the agenda. Indrek Saar, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U25	Thank you! I will come back to the issue of when we can discuss the cultural development plan and other important cultural issues. Is it possible that because one of the members of the government cannot carry out their duties and can remain in close contact repeatedly, this could prevent work from happening in the future? I have not learned from what has sounded in the public, which are the adequate reasons why the Minister has not vaccinated himself and which is why both the field and the substantive work in the Riigikogu suffer, but let us assume that this reason exists. In such a case, should the Riigikogu's board of directors not consider as an employer if they are convinced that these reasons are sufficient and justified so that the Riigikogu can then switch to work in the form of remote sessions for a period of time, so that the Minister of Culture can also perform his duties?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U26	Thank you. When these items that are not on the agenda come to debate, the proposal of the commission on the third agenda item will depend on when it will be put back on the agenda. And as far as I understand, on the fourth item, there is an agreement with the heirs that this enquiry will be postponed. I believe that the Minister will have to respond to this as soon as possible. I don't think it's right that we, either on the board or in this hall, start dissecting people's personal health records, as you wish. I don't think it's right, I don't think it's a procedural question either. The competence to decide whether the Riigikogu works here at Lossi Square 1A or goes to a distance session is, as we know, there, under the direction of the Riigikogu, and at the moment we have not considered it necessary for the Riigikogu to go to a distance session. The opposite has been the case. Kalle Grünthal, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U27	Thank you, Mr President. My question relates to your reply, where you said that the time for answering questions in a restricted Estonian debate is 15 minutes, and it was a consensual decision of the Riigikogu's board. My question to you: can the Riigikogu hall decide that this time will be extended if it is put to the vote? Maybe you can tell me or ask your advisors for help?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U28	Thank you. Please, Mr. Grünthal, help your good fellows. But it has really been so that whoever takes the initiative, [is it then] the Commission or the political group, having worked on this subject, comes up with its proposal. This is viewed by the Riigikogu Board and, as a rule, it has also been supported. There's an internship here. Indrek Saar, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U29	Thank you! As for the fact that we all have the right to the confidentiality of our health records, you have certainly noticed that it may formally apply to the government and members of the Riigikogu, but it does not apply in substance. It is claimed that there is a sufficient public interest in such matters in order for people occupying these posts to be able to explain fully to the public why they cannot carry out their duties, just as the Minister of Culture cannot do in this case. Therefore, I think it would be in the interest of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, as an employer's representative, either to get a clear answer from the minister to the public or to think about how to maintain the working capacity of the Riigikogu in this situation also on matters that require the participation of the Minister of Culture in the working processes of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U30	Thank you. First of all, I believe the Minister has given his answers. Whether you want to believe them or not is always the question of the believer himself. But I agree with this that, if it really happens that for very long reasons a member of the Riigikogu or government cannot perform its duties in this Chamber, it must, of course, be looked at flexibly and find these opportunities so that it does not remain that way. But today, the situation is that due to self-insulation, at least the Minister of Culture cannot attend the contact session. Kalle Grünthal, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U31	Thank you, Mr President. You didn't answer my question. My question was whether the Riigikogu could change the decision of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu on the extension of the OTRK.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U32	Thank you. As far as I know, we do not have such practice that the Chamber of Riigikogu would change that. Dear colleagues, with these amendments, I will vote on the agenda for the third working week of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U33	With the result of 69 votes against 14 and 3 abstentions, the agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U34	Let us now move on to the agenda items on this working day. The first item on Monday is the first reading of the draft law amending the Public Information Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation of the Riigikogu speech chair by Minister of Justice Maris Lauri. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U35	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The purpose of this draft is to increase the availability and re-usability of open data to promote innovation and the economy, to ensure a smoother functioning of the internal market and to promote the information society. The amendment transposes the requirements of the Open Data Directive. In order to understand the importance of this draft, I will first open up some of its background. Today, we are surrounded by a wide variety of data, and they are growing. One part of these data is data available to the public sector, such as tax data, health data, traffic data, etc. Open data form part of these public data. These are part of public information that is not restricted to access. Personal data may also be open data, but the General Data Protection Regulation applies to them. In the case of personal data disclosed under law, restrictions on re-use may be imposed in order to protect privacy. The re-use of data is perfectly normal. For example, traffic and transport information is used in different applications, as well as for the location of health trails, speech recognition, machine translation, satellite evaluation of logging, crop cultivation, etc. It is estimated that the opening data market in Europe in 2020 was EUR 184 billion. It is expected to range from just under EUR 200 billion to 334 billion by 2025. In 2019, 1.1 million people were employed in the private or public sector in relation to open data. It is estimated that by 2025 there will be just under two million such workers. Estonia has undergone a very big change and it is important for us that we have risen from 27 to 5 with a maturity index. The volume of the Estonian opening data market could reach up to 445 million euros by 2025 as the current rapid growth continues. It is clear that such a rapidly growing market needs a clear framework for sound functioning. That is why the Open Data Directive and the draft drawn up on this basis are intended. The main changes made to this draft are as follows: First, data changes related to valuable data sets. Valuable data sets are open data that must be available to the normal user free of charge, in machine-readable format, through an appropriate application interface and, where appropriate, as wholesale downloadable data. The categories of valuable data sets are set at six. These are (1) geospatial data (e.g. target numbers, country and local maps); (2) land monitoring and environment (e.g. energy consumption, satellite imagery); (3) meteorological information (e.g. on-site meter data and weather forecasts); (4) statistics (e.g. demographic and economic indicators); (5) companies and company ownership relationships, i.e. business registers and registration identification data; (6) mobility data (e.g. traffic signs, inland waterways). The European Commission can further establish categories. The Commission shall also establish, under each category, a list of specific data, as well as procedures for the publication and re-use of such data. To date, the Commission has not yet come up with a draft implementing act and, unfortunately, neither the final list nor the conditions for publication and re-use of open data have been included. The draft also provides for the possibility of establishing national valuable data sets. According to the draft, the language database will become Estonia's first national valuable data set. Its establishment as a valuable data set supports the sustainability of the Estonian language and the development of language technology. This can improve, among other things, the quality of the Estonian language's machine translation, speech recognition and speech synthesis. Examples of language records include translations from the public sector in machine-readable form and translation memories, Estonian keywords, term bases, list of place names. The second complex of changes is scientific data. Research data shall be released for re-use only if they are financed by a public authority and made public through the relevant repository. There are no scientific publications considered as scientific data. Thirdly, the amendments to the draft concern the requirements of the format for data re-use and the specification of the cost elements of the fee. Currently, open data, where possible and appropriate, must be re-used in machine-readable form and in open format. The draft includes an obligation to include metadata. It provides a description of the data that is, what are the sources and what are their contents. The concept of dynamic data shall be used. These are data that are frequently or in real time updated because they constantly change or expire rapidly, such as weather data, traffic operational information on road accidents and obstacles, public transport information, etc. Such data shall, as a general rule, be released for re-use through the API and, where applicable, as wholesale downloadable data immediately after collection or after data change. The cost elements of the fee to be charged for re-use shall be specified. The fee may include costs incurred for the reproduction, submission and dissemination of data and for the anonymisation of personal data and the protection of business secrets. At present, the open data information gate must contain accessible data from databases. According to the amendments, the data accessible there must be in machine-readable form. One part of the draft is not related to the transposition of the Open Data Directive. In particular, the Data Protection Inspectorate will transfer the competence of the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority to monitor holders of information in fulfilling the accessibility requirements of the website and mobile application. This competence was granted to the Data Protection Inspectorate in 2018, but in 2019 a directive was adopted to be transposed into Estonian law by 28 June 2022 and applied by the same date of 2025. As far as accessibility requirements for products and services are concerned, under the leadership of the Ministry of Social Affairs, a new law on accessibility will come and it is clear today that compliance with private websites and mobile applications will be monitored by the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority. This change is being made for practical reasons and this competence is already being transferred from the Data Protection Inspectorate to the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority. So much for the bill and in short, that's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U36	Good waitress, thank you. You have at least one question. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U37	Good manager! Thank you for a very interesting bill. I read in the explanatory memorandum: "The economic impact of open data, which was expected to be large and tangible, is rather gradual and not directly visible, is difficult to see and sometimes well hidden. In order to continue to publish and maintain high-quality open data, it is necessary to examine and quantify the benefits of open data in order to understand the value of open data in relation to resource costs. It also helps to understand where the most profitable resources are to be channelled. If economic benefits are understood, it is possible to keep open data high on the political agenda. " And my question. The Minister for Justice, who will examine and quantify the benefits of opening data in order to understand their value in relation to economic benefits? And another thing, why has it not been more clearly communicated so far that opening up open data is not an altruistic charity, but an important opportunity to promote a growing innovative and ethical economy that supports democracy, security and prosperity?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U38	Thank you for your question. Such analyses can certainly be carried out by very different bodies. That depends on who gets the order. This can be done by research institutions, research institutions, universities, and we also have different institutions in Estonia that can do this. With regard to the use of data, it is certainly important that we provide data held by the state, which allows for the creation of a wide range of applications that can be used by businesses, the state and individuals and then change their behaviour accordingly. It will undoubtedly also create business opportunities for different companies. And what's wrong with that? This will make our lives more comfortable and better. For example, when we see our mobile app, what the weather is now and what the forecasts are, what the forecasts are. Different companies can make this app in different ways, they can in a way compete. There are also applications that, through satellite imagery, monitor, for example, crop cultivation or flooding. There are a lot of different applications that are useful to people and businesses in planning their activities, but they are certainly also useful to the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U39	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U40	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! I ask what's wrong with it if there's more information. Sometimes it's kind of annoying when you've bought some medication at a pharmacy and then you get these sales offers from a lot of different places. Even though you're a male, maybe you'll be offered women's products and won't even be heard. Does it regulate this to some extent, or does it still remain so that if it is innovative and if it promotes a business, then it can simply be further distributed?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U41	Thank you. This draft deals with enabling public sector data to be used by people and businesses, which is why we are talking about data that is already at the disposal of the public sector. This draft does not deal with the use of data held by private operators, but precisely with data held by the public sector. The public sector is known to have a wide range of data. At local government level, for example, how bus and coach traffic works, what are the timetables for public transport movements, whether there are any problems and all these things. It is a public sector data set that becomes freely available, and a very large number of data are already being used. The purpose of this draft is to ensure that these standards are identical so that, for example, an Estonian company can use a similar application in Latvia or Lithuania or, for my sake, even in Germany, because these data are all machine-readable in the same way. It should not struggle to conclude separate contracts in order to obtain data. That is the purpose of this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U42	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You and your team came over last Tuesday to introduce this bill, and I have to say that your team members were very good, they were able to make me believe for half an hour that it was all good, beautiful and necessary. But then you opened your mouth for a second, two or three sentences, and I lost my faith in this bill. Because you said 'The European Union directive needs to be transposed'. " For me, the fundamental question is why this directive, which is the basis of which all public sector information is basically re-usable, is also available to citizens of other Member States, for example a Portuguese resident can investigate and view both my property data and anyone's property data.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U44	Thank you. The honourable member of the Riigikogu has obviously misunderstood the matter a little. Firstly, this draft very clearly concerns only a certain part of the data, so-called valuable data, which will be made available to all people and businesses. Details of the detention book are not included here. Once again, access to all data that are subject to the General Data Protection Regulation, i.e. not to disclose sensitive private data essential for a person, is excluded.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U45	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. I will take a look at the feedback from the co-ordinators and opinion holders, which is known to have been made in order to receive feedback from stakeholders affected by legislative changes. Then the Estonian Information Technology and Telecommunications Association has proposed the following: "We believe that the Public Information Act as a whole is difficult to monitor for its performers and needs to prepare a new complete text. We have also made this proposal in previous discussions, but unfortunately, the new text has not been drafted. " Could you open up a little bit of the reasons why it was not considered important to take this text as a whole on the table and to make a circle as if it had been reasonable and as have been the case with the proposals?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U47	I'm sorry! Can you tell me where to...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U48	Page 5, says a member of the Riigikogu. I ask that the microphone be given to Rene Koka so that he can specify what he asked about so that the minister can answer. Please, Rene Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U49	Thank you, President-in-Office. It is a feedback or a list of opinion providers and it is under page five.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U50	Yeah, I found it. In this case, the Ministry is conducting an analysis of all data regulations. We have found that such more profound changes, if they are to be made, we will do after analysis, when this analysis is ready and evaluated, what changes need to be made, so that if we start writing a new draft, a completely new text based only on open data, other things will not be touched. It would be better if these other topics were also worked out and discussed, and if there is a need for a whole new text, then we will do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U51	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U52	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I read on page 4 of the explanatory memorandum, entitled "Main principles arising from the Open Data Directive', and it states as the first point: "All public sector information is, in principle, freely re-usable; however, Member States have the right to decide for themselves the basis for imposing access restrictions. "We really do have a lot of public data in the public sector, but a very large part, however, is restricted to access, i.e. marked "for internal use." Is it possible now that this data will be stamped "for internal use" in our country, or will it be restricted, but at the same time they will be freely available in the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U53	Thank you for your question. No, the data that is called freely available with this draft is freely available. This theme of the AK marks certainly needs more in-depth restructuring, and it is actually being dealt with. I have given the task of ordering this issue and making clearer rules, because this AK mark is usually linked to people's personal data. [The purpose is that] if documents are marked with an AK, it will be assessed whether they are justified or not, because there are real examples that are used too much and that sometimes they are not. It must also be ensured that if the time for the AK marks is missed, it will be taken out quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U54	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U55	Thank you, good Chairman. Dear Minister, I'd ask about the environment. We know that data will be made available in the forest register after the inventory of private forests and, if cutting is planned there, before the forest owner finds out about it, one call and pressure on the forest owner to carry out the logging there as soon as possible. What do you think of that? In fact, should this law, which we are currently dealing with here, still help to resolve this situation, and is such a situation accepted from the point of view of the use of open data at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U56	Thank you. I certainly do not know the answer to a particular case, because I do not deal with this topic on a daily basis. However, the reality is that if there is public data, everyone should have access to them on an equal footing. It is undoubtedly very bad to hear that outsiders receive information about changes in the property and potential property of a person before the person himself. This sequence certainly doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U57	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U58	Thank you. You gave an example here of weather apps, but I don't think this is a very successful example, because there are dozens and dozens of different things today, from which we can look at the situation and forecasts, etc. But you also talked about how public sector data, which concerns different individuals and citizens, do not become public, but at the same time you stated that the list of these data is not exhaustive. So essentially, we're giving a bill of lading to something we have no idea what kind of opening data might end up in that list. I think it is somewhat suspicious, especially when you mentioned that Estonia is not taking the opportunity that has been given there to restrict them in any way at national level.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U59	Thank you. The opening data we are talking about are valuable data, there are six types of data and these are presented here. It is certain that, if data is added in the future, Estonia will also participate in this discussion, whether it is justified to add new data to the category of valuable data, in which case it is justified and under what conditions it is justified. I assume that Estonia will always participate actively and rationally in all discussions. In addition, in the case of those rules that can be closed, Estonia will certainly consider and decide, but in the main, the principle of openness of certain indicators applies to all European countries. Unfortunately, this list is not yet complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U60	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U61	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You made a criticism of me that I had misunderstood something when I referred to the land register data. The question is that the data in the land register are public, if you do not know it, and it is also possible to buy the address details out of there for a fee. So I think this criticism isn't quite right and shows your incompetence. The question now is why these data should be available to the people of Portugal, Italy or France, which I do not know what kind of crime, who want to engage in some kind of fraud. But my question is why this data, the information used in the public sector about the people of Estonia, must be available to the European Union as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U62	Thank you. Once again, the data in the land register is not the subject of this draft. The data in the detention book are public according to Estonian law, I think, from the time that the land register was created. There is no doubt that a member of the Riigikogu has the right to propose that the land register be closed, only that it is likely to be accompanied by problems in checking transactions in the purchase and sale of properties. There is no doubt about the question of what information about the owner should be public and whether [watching them] should be subject to a charge and what kind of remuneration would it be? But this is not the subject of this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U63	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U64	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question comes from page 24 of the draft explanatory memorandum in the context of the terminology of the draft. As we have been told many times, the draft must be simple and understandable. It's about scientific data and dynamic data. And with my question, I come to the term of valuable data sets. It states: "Open data, the re-use of which is associated with important benefits to society, the environment and the economy, in particular because of their suitability for the creation of value added services and applications and for the creation of new high quality and decent jobs and the number of people benefiting from such services and applications. " What does that mean?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U65	Thank you. Yeah, that's the situation where you've tried to write all the different thoughts in one sentence. I guess in these legal texts that happens from time to time. If you're thinking very calmly, you're going to start by pointing out that it's open data. Secondly, it refers to the assumption or assumption that if these data are re-used not only in the creation process, but also when they are re-used for some other purpose, they can provide new quality added value. They can create jobs, they can benefit people, they can benefit the economy. The use of these data can create the possibility of 'values' in society.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U66	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U67	Good manager! Good minister! This whole explanatory statement is full of this state-of-the-art bullshit. But I ask you, as a wise person, that the aim of the directive is to resolve the practical bottlenecks that have arisen in interpreting the concept of open data and the principles of re-use. Minister, in a clear Estonian language, tell us what these weaknesses are in the interpretation of the concept of open data, firstly and secondly, what are the weaknesses in the interpretation of the principles of the Open Data Reuse Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U68	Thank you. Sometimes people use one term or another with different meanings or different nuances, and sometimes their different perceptions of one term or another can cause great confusion. For example, the same question on how to define what valuable data are, which is open data, which is dynamic data, so that there is a clear understanding of what something is, that if the parties go into some kind of contract or talk about something, they would understand clearly what they are talking about. As one member of the Riigikogu pointed out earlier, this concept of opening data has been used earlier and is used now, but the question is more that at certain moments different perceptions may create problems and problems of compatibility between countries, such as the use of the same app or application in countries. Also, for example, the fact that the data does not accurately describe what one or the other indicator means and where it is derived from. It may often be simply said that the city of Tallinn has a temperature of 20 degrees at this time of day, but [is not said] where it is measured, at what altitude, which are these points, this is actually important information. If the data set is clearly described in the same way, its use and implementation will be much more effective and effective than simply the fact that the user of these data will start to figure out what this or another thing means, or worse if he does not think, but rather assumes that in one or the other data set it means this or the other. Statistics, for example, are the most common problem. While I always recommend that when using statistics, I also read the explanations that one or the other indicator actually means, because very often this indicator is interpreted or believed to be something other than what it really is. People make up their own meanings. Such conceptual contradictions arise, and this also means that if the concepts are not understood correctly, the data will be used incorrectly and the result will also be the wrong one.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U69	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U70	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I asked my previous question, "Why didn't you take the initiative to produce a whole new text, 'you replied that an analysis is currently being carried out in the Ministry. Could you please specify when this analysis could be completed by when it will be completed? Is it reasonable, though, to make a whole new text?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U71	Thank you. The analysis has turned out to be unexpectedly voluminous. I hope this analysis will be completed this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U72	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! The same draft, which you are presenting, in the explanatory memorandum, states nicely that Member States have the right, however, to decide on their own grounds for imposing restrictions on access. You answered me about raising this issue, that you are currently reviewing these access restrictions. I understand that you do not have a legal education and you probably do not understand how legislation could or should be implemented, but at the moment we have yet another law to introduce here, and it has already become a handwriting for this government to deal only with the subsequent correction of misfortunes. How can you come here with such a incomplete bill, with access restrictions clearly included in the draft text? You can't come to this hall without it. So where is the second law you're going to impose these access restrictions?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U74	Thank you. The purpose of this law is to make open data, in particular valuable open data, usable and to establish certain rules and principles for [their use], to establish format requirements, the possibilities for using these [data] and to determine which data must be available free of charge, in machine-readable form and through a specific location, such as a data portal. This draft does not deal with AK marks, does not deal with other restrictions on access. This is the subject of other drafts and will be dealt with when they are brought to the Riigikogu for discussion, when these drafts are completed or when changes have been decided. This draft does not address these issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U75	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U76	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I'll pick up where you left off last time you answered my question. I understand that the government is now determined that the pressure on forest owners to cut down the forest or sell their forest land will be further boosted. These data shall be made available free of charge, in machine-readable form and in bulk as data sets to be downloaded. Why are you doing this? You said you were not familiar with the subject, but you may have heard that it is quite common for forest owners to be pressured to chop and sell their lands. Now you're giving it another chance, you're also technologically blowing it to the wings.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U77	Thank you. This bill is not going to share information that somebody is entitled to a cutting permit somewhere. This isn't the data set. What these valuable data will be made up of, it's currently undefined. It simply points out that these valuable data sets include, for example, land monitoring and environmental data, including satellite images showing where forests exist, where coniferous forests exist, mixed forests with arable land. There's no discussion here about someone giving cutting permits. This is not the subject of this bill. However, in my understanding, this data is in the decision-making area of other drafts and other ministers. I don't dare say because I really don't do this on a daily basis, that these records are given, based on this law... I mean, according to this law, they are certainly not granted [for public use]. But whether or not the Minister of the Environment is going to change the data on these logging permits, you have to ask the Minister of the Environment, not me.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U78	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U79	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I was confused about a euro-language. This is at the beginning of point 8, which states: open data, the re-use of which is associated with the benefits essential to society, in particular because of their suitability to create decent jobs. Interesting language! Is there a list of non-humane jobs anywhere, such as a politician being humane and a miner being unhumane? Or have I misunderstood something? It's a very exciting language.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U80	Thank you. I don't know where you read it now. I can't find that point.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U81	Minister, I apologize. Please return the microphone to Anti Polish Forest. Please specify, if you don't mind me asking where you read it, which page, the minister will be able to answer it. A microphone for the Anti Polish Forest, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U82	Point 8 of the draft law and § 4, "Values data sets'.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U83	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U84	Point 4? I guess I don't know what the problem is. I can't find a place like you quoted.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U85	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U86	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You know, if I was a class teacher or a teacher, I'd tell you to sit down, two! Go find out what you came here to explain and protect! You don't understand anything. Have you ever done a real estate transaction in your life? If you are, then you should know what a land register means, the data you put in it, and all that, but you do have it like mush and cabbages. My question is very simple. When you answered Mr Grünthal, you said that the data in the land register were not public. § 55 of the Law of Property Act states in the State's Official Journal: "The Documentary Book is public. Everyone has the right to access and obtain extracts from the land register in accordance with the procedure laid down by law. " Is it public or is it not public? Do the Portuguese, the Germans, the French get to know it or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U87	Thank you. The honourable members of the Riigikogu obviously did not follow very closely what I said. I said that the land register data was not the subject of this draft, and I also said that the land register data is not in the category of valuable data. Detention book... I'm sure you won't hear me talking right now. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] The record of the detention book is freely available on the basis of another law that you yourself quoted. This is not the subject of this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U88	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U89	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! Perhaps my question is not about this law either, but it is indirectly still [concerns it]. How much does this amendment give members of the Riigikogu the opportunity to demand data prohibited from ministries for public use? We have a number of cases here where ministries have gone to international summaries, we should be making decisions here, we want these materials and they are for official use, but we already have almost all of this authorisation here. Does that make it easier for us to communicate with the ministries?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U90	Thank you. No, this bill is not about that. But I believe that members of the Riigikogu have the right to access information intended for official use, if that is necessary for their work. However, it may certainly be the case that this cannot be done by sending the data to you, but that access to the data will be fixed or will take place depending on the degree of need to protect the document in another room or against the signature. At least that's how it should be.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U91	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U92	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I can see very clearly that these costs are very high from the part of the activities of the state and local government involved in the implementation of this law, as well as from the expected costs and benefits. 6 million and 3 million and hundreds of thousands more. Of course, I didn't find the income line in this chapter where they came from, but I found the direction of surveillance. Supervision shall be supplemented by an additional amount of EUR 150000 from the reserve in order to monitor whether these opening data have still been provided in an appropriate form. Is the total cost incurred by each body itself a question of having to bear these costs, or is there additional resources for this? What about this revenue side when it's been reflected?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U93	Thank you. I'll start at the end. Revenue may arise, as is the case here in the draft, because of the organisation of certain data and for certain activities, a fee may be charged, which is prescribed by law. It could generate benefits. Now, undoubtedly, collecting, storing and sharing data means certain costs. These expenditures have been and will continue to be incurred. The financing of the changes resulting from this draft is planned in the budgets of the ministries. These are in the state budget, which also comes to the Riigikogu. So these activities should be financially covered.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U94	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U95	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I must say that your previous response did not satisfy me at all, and we consulted the legal specialist of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, who said that, of course, these data are European public. So all kinds of epithets and other explanations are just demagoguery. But what I'm saying is that you're offering us another bunch of crap. You expect the Riigikogu to approve a half-draft and issue a bill of lading, which will be furnished through the following drafts and through other ministries and from preparation. Is it really the practice of this government that, in addition to a deep state, we also have a doubling state and you represent a doubling state now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U96	Thank you. No doubt every member of the Riigikogu and, in fact, every resident of the Republic of Estonia has the right to a personal opinion. In the same way, each person has the right to disagree with another person's opinion. In this case, I do not agree with your opinion, and I would like to refer once again to this, I would ask you to listen this time: openness or non-disclosure of the land register is not the subject of this draft. The openness of the detention book is set out years ago in the second draft, which you yourself quoted. I didn't say the land register was closed. If the land register is open, it means that every person has access to it, including the Portuguese person, including the person who lives in Brazil or Australia. Everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U97	A procedural question, Kalle Grünthal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U98	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. At the moment, the story is that we are dealing here with the law amending the Public Information Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the painful point was the clause of § 55 of the Law of Property Act, according to which the data in the land register are public. The question now is that the same law on public information also covers the data in the land register, as they have been granted access to the public. The question now is that we are facing a minister who says that these data do not go under, that they fall under another law and that it is becoming increasingly tragic. Basically, we're listening to the Minister here, like three bears in a fairy tale. I would like to propose that you interrupt this point and send the minister home to make it clear so that we don't waste time and get flies in our heads.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U99	Thank you. As soon as I hear three bear fairy tales being spoken here, I'm seriously considering stopping this story. Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U100	Thank you. I'm really sorry about my question, but I had this misunderstanding. You used the expression "not the subject of this law" quite a number of times. Doesn't our legislation analyse the relationship with other laws? Should the purpose or expected outcome of our laws not be beneficial to the state, for the benefit of the people? Or is it as a young specialist once said at the Ministry of Agriculture that we are making the law, they are there to see for themselves how they do it? If we don't make it, we're gonna change the law, like this, even ten times. Have I got something wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U101	Thank you. Of course, all drafts are also assessed in relation to other laws and drafts, and the reality is that no law deals with all topics, all things. We do not have any laws to cover all of us in detail, and I do not think that would be feasible. It is logical that the drafts deal with more specific, some broader, some narrower issues. It is clear that the amendment of one law or another will also assess compliance with other laws. In the case of this bill, it has been done exactly as it should be. It has been compared, evaluated and found that there are no contradictions and that they are all perfectly compatible.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U102	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I ask Andrei Korobeinik, member of the Constitutional Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U103	Good chairman of the sitting! Honourable ambassadors! The draft law amending the Public Information Act was held in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 21 September 2021. Six members of the Commission attended the meeting and the debate was very thorough. Three bears were not mentioned in the Commission either, but several aspects of this draft were well addressed by the members of the Commission. This is a further development of the concept of the Open Data Act and the draft specifies who will get access to the data and in what circumstances. Members of the Commission examined what would happen to specific databases, such as the Business Register or the Register of Property, and which rules would be applied to access to personal data. The bill was presented by Mr Maris Lauri, Minister of Justice, who also answered these questions thoroughly here. The Commission's consultation revealed that specificity will only come later, as the specification of the nature of the data will only come from the European Union after a while. However, in general terms, this bill must allow for more favourable access to open data. It does not extend the use of personal data compared to today's situation. In general, according to the Minister, Estonia is not doing very well at the moment in terms of opening data, but certain progress has been achieved over the last few years and this draft will allow this process to be accelerated so that the private sector has access to different databases. The consultation ended with the Commission taking procedural decisions. The Commission proposed to put the draft on the plenary agenda today, 27 September. It was a consensual decision. It was proposed that the first reading be completed. This decision was not consensual, five delegates voted in favour and one against. I was appointed rapporteur by the Commission, and this decision was once again consensual. I'd be happy to answer your questions, although I suspect the Minister took them all out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U104	Thank you, good waitress. Due to our Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, the Minister cannot take anything out; a member of the Riigikogu asks or does not ask. But I understand your point. You mean he already answered them. And really, your senses are like the chess player's right, no questions for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U105	I actually meant that only two questions are [possible to ask] and both have been asked.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U106	Oh, in that sense. Not everyone asked two questions. But since there were no questions for you, let's move on. Next, all political groups will be able to open negotiations. My question is whether the groups want to open negotiations. They do. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Heiki Hepner, representative of the Isamaa Group, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U107	Thank you, good Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft law, which we have begun to discuss here, is, on the one hand, very important, because Estonia wants to be a digital state, Estonia wants to be innovative and it is, of course, based on the use of data. On the other hand, it brings with it a number of questions and questions to which this draft, regrettably, does not actually answer. On my questions about making forest data available to the Minister, I mentioned that the forest owners will be subjected to a total attack after the inventory and the introduction of the economic plan into the forest register, with proposals for harvesting growing forests, with proposals for selling land and forest. And now, when we look at this draft law, indeed, the aim is to make this information faster and better for these raccoons, so it is actually called this type of characters available. [Article 1 (8) of the Decree] § 4.1 provides that valuable records shall be made available for reuse by the holder of information free of charge, in machine-readable format through an appropriate application interface and, where appropriate, as wholesale downloadable data. Perhaps now it is possible to make all this much more comfortable. You can ask for more details, and you can press for more detail. This is actually just one example in the whole legislative package that we have on the table. But there are definitely more details of this type. I will point out another question that we did not actually hear much about. We are talking about how much the implementation of this law costs us every year and how it is reflected, even in our state budget or in the state budget strategy. We can read here that the Registries and Information Systems Centre has two years for transition and is not covered by this State Budget Act. In some ways, it is still a lighter kind of bomb for the state budget for the next and the next year. The country's annual costs increase by 10 million and a little bit. We could say, of course, well, what's the 10 million? It's not money at all, but on the other hand, I would have expected that if we wrote here now that the $10 million would cost this thing every year, how the profits come back. What really is a revenue side, not just a cost side. And it is actually worth adding one more comment that this 10 million may not be the final sum. It's an annual... A little extra time, please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U108	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U109	This is an annual cost, but it also includes a clause that the exact costs associated with valuable data will be known after the adoption of the Commission implementing regulation. It cannot be ruled out that hundreds or millions more will come here. So these are, in fact, weak points in this draft, which I am sure should be dealt with seriously between the two readings, so that [by the time], when we come here to hold the second reading of this hall, there would also be answers to these questions, and we could make decisions in the clear knowledge that this is not a hidden bomb or a small screw-up, but still seriously changes that are necessary for the digital state of Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U110	Thank you. I now ask for a speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U111	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, We have often been accused of the fact that the Riigikogu has become a rubber stamp, who adopts laws and basically carries out either the government or I do not know whose duties. We do not basically have the ability to think at least in this way it is believed that everyone in ministries is smarter and knows. But today's example, the same draft, which has been described as the law amending the Public Information Act, actually showed that the situation is the opposite. The Government of the Republic of Estonia, headed by the Minister, is completely unaware of the interaction and validity of our laws. I was very foolish to listen to the Minister when we talked about the fact that all public sector information is basically freely re-usable, and then the minister will say, in answer to my question, that the land register data does not fall under this law. At first, he says that the land register isn't even public. The Minister of Justice contradicts § 55 (1) of the Law of Property Act: the land register is public and everyone has the right to access and obtain extracts from the land register. This approach by the minister who is coming to bring us the draft law is shameful. Secondly, we are being pressured to transpose the European Union directive. However, the very important points that we are adopting, on which we are signing, have not been mentioned in this draft. After all, it will be up to someone in the future, the so-called state. Whether this concept of state is furnished by a decision of the Riigikogu or by law or is furnished by a decree or order of a minister or by an order of the Government of the Republic, it is unclear. The Minister, who is certainly a very good person in life, did not master this issue, and that is why I raised a protest against the fact that we cannot come here to tell such a story if it has not been made clear to ourselves. The question is now very fundamental. We will adopt the law, but it will be implemented under this law. Poor lawyers who do not understand one way or the other must therefore go to court to claim the right, which is an additional cost for the people they represent. We must not allow such a thing. Think about it. The Government of the Republic must come here through its representative, who is able to answer exactly, without error, all the questions that the members of the Riigikogu are asking. What just happened was a big joke, to be honest. That's no way to make laws. This is not the way to come before the Riigikogu. Count on it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U112	I don't see any more requests from the political groups. I ask the Riigikogu's speech chair, Minister of Justice Maris Lauri. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U113	Thank you. I will respond to the two speakers. First of all, Mr Heiki Hepner, the financing of this draft is planned in the state budget and also in the state budget strategy. I assure you that, as far as I know, all ministers have planned these funds with sufficient resources. At least the Ministry of Justice has done this for the business register. So I hope that this concern will be covered and the real cost will be reduced. It's really hope. Certainly, if it becomes more precise about the composition of the data, it will also be clear how much money will go, but the maximum amount of money is planned. But as you know, prices are rising and, in the case of high inflation, things may get a little out of hand. I sincerely hope that the reserves planned in the ministries will be sufficient. I would also like to respond to the speech of the member of the Riigikogu, Kalle Grünthal. We certainly know situations where we do not want to hear what is being said. I don't want to notice it and I don't want to get into it. It can be for so many different reasons. One reason is that there is a matter in your head, that your views are made up, and then it is impossible to listen when something is said that weakens your views and that does not fit them is not responding to them. It's uncomfortable. Certainly, there are situations where there is simply talk of spite, maliciousness, or other reasons. I do not know exactly what this is about, but a member of the Riigikogu at the top of the Riigikogu claiming that the minister is speaking a lie or that he is messing things up after I have repeatedly pointed out that draft 409 we are discussing here does not deal with real estate book data... This bill doesn't deal with the land register, it doesn't. This bill speaks of valuable data and the land register data is not considered valuable data. That is very clear. Yeah, it's open data, but it doesn't go under this particular bill. The record of the detention book shall be public. I never said they weren't public. They are public in Estonian law on the basis of another law and are available to everyone. I suggest you think along, not be prejudiced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U114	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Well, then, let's come to the decisions of the commission, which were nicely reported to us. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 409 be completed. The commission has proposed that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 11 October. That concludes the first reading and concludes the first item.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U115	Let us move on to the second item on the agenda. This is the first reading of the Riigikogu decision "Accepting the Principles for the Implementation of European Union Cohesion Policy Funds for Reducing Regional Inequality" submitted by the Social Democratic Party Group. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu Lauri Läänemets, member of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U116	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, with such a complicated name, the bill is. This directly concerns the financing period of the European Union that has already begun and the instruments that we are going to use in Estonia and the measures that are being taken for this money, but basically or essentially this draft has two objectives. One of the major objectives is to reduce regional disparities. Essentially, we are planning to influence jobs, in particular in small towns and rural areas, the creation of jobs and helping to raise wages in existing jobs, as jobs, low wages or skills shortages are one of the most important reasons why people move from rural areas and small towns to Harjumaa or Tartu County, in short, to larger urban areas. The draft itself concerns three principles which the Riigikogu could decide on and which the government should take action on. And these three principles are as follows: First of all, at least 10% of the volume of cohesion policy funds, which is added to the EUR 190 million already planned by the government, is allocated to the development of entrepreneurship and jobs in Estonia's small towns and rural areas, estimated to be EUR 350 million. These measures are designed on the basis of regional development strategies and regional specificities. This means that these objectives and problems, which are also on the ground, will be taken into account. Studies show that European Union funds are primarily designed on the basis of national objectives, but often do not match local problems or are unable to take into account local specificities. How to do it more precisely, the government can look at it for itself. The second objective or principle concerns the establishment of higher rates of support for less prosperous regions on the basis of GDP per capita. Perhaps in those regions where economic development has been higher and businesses and people are doing much better, the participation rate in euro projects is also higher, and where support is needed, the participation rate would be lower. And the third principle is that, as a general rule, regional or regional application lines are used for national open application support measures to avoid situations where a large part of the money is concentrated in more prosperous regions. Maybe there's a way to do it. In the past, many of Estonia's application rounds have been conducted in such a way that all companies, municipalities or NGOs have to compete for this euro money nationwide. And this is often the main problem in the case of national competition, that those who are more capable are more successful in doing so. This actually leads to an unequal distribution of euro money. Now I'm going to talk a little bit about the background and the substance of this bill. Regional disparities have increased throughout the period of re-independence, most pronounced in the concentration of the economy and human capital in metropolitan areas. This is what the Estonian Human Development Report says. I remember when, in 2020, before the issues of the Human Development Report came here to discuss the large hall, we listened to the brief overview of the author of the Human Development Report in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and he expressed the same view. At the time, we had a very lively debate in the Commission about how, in a way that money has been well placed in rural areas and everywhere else, perhaps everyone has had the opportunity, but that is what is happening when, for example, Harjumaa has more money, more human resources and better knowledge to use, it is inevitably better to apply for money in such a nationwide competition than any other company in a smaller region of Estonia. As a rule, however, money is concentrated in Harjumaa and Tartumaa, while the rest of Estonia is lost. The reduction in jobs, however, often places people in a forced situation where they have to leave their homes because the wages they offer in the region do not allow for living or there is no job corresponding to their skills. What we mean by this is that moving to Tallinn, Harjumaa or Tartu County from a smaller area is not always the free will of man, but it is a forced situation. If you have fewer and fewer jobs in the region, you will eventually go after the job. A lot of people have just moved on to this job. Unfortunately, this is not a free choice for people in this sense. There are three factors behind the drafting of the draft. Regional disparities have only increased since regaining independence. Several studies show this. The existing European Union support measures have rather exacerbated regional disparities. I have already said that simply, if Harjumaa has more capable applicants, because there are more resources here, this money will eventually be concentrated in Harjumaa with national measures. The third point is that, if you look now at the financing plan for this new period of funds, it does not show that regional specificities and regional development strategies are sufficiently taken into account. Rather, there is such a nationwide vision. Very many analyses or studies say that a nationwide vision may contribute to the economic development of Estonia as a whole, but if it fails to take into account regional needs and often it fails to do so, it will lead to a strong development of Tallinn with Harjumaa, but the rest of the regions will fall behind. It is important to look at the scenarios of the Estonian regional economy drawn up by the Centre for Development of the Riigikogu by 2035. It is noted, by the way, that although the early growth of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area compared to other regions is a common phenomenon, the development characteristics of the regions in Estonia are among the largest in Europe. The difference between the socio-economic level of Tallinn and Tartu urban areas as compared to other Estonian regions is increasing and the regional growth centres have not achieved the expected result. Perhaps our own analytical capacity and apparatus here in the Riigikogu is exactly what Praxis and the Human Development Report have identified with the Ministry of Finance's own monitoring reports. Using the European Union's resources and taking action in this way will increase the inequality within Estonia, and regional inequality will rather be exacerbated. The report on the implementation of the regional development strategy drawn up by the Ministry of Finance, which was carried out in 2018, is now the last one, says that regional differences in the light of Estonia's small size have still been large and there has been no significant shift towards more uniform territorial development. The monitoring report also shows the impact of the European Union funds specifically mentioned in previous reports and the link with the increase in regional disparities. In short, in summary. The purpose of these principles is to state how and on what principles the Government of the Republic should use the European Union's actions and how they should be implemented. The aim is to channel more money from metropolitan areas outside smaller towns and rural areas. In our opinion, this could affect 15,000 jobs, and it would save a great many people from being forced to come to Tallinn because of the lack of a job. The above-mentioned reports and almost all the analyses of regional development carried out in recent years say that European Union funds have a very large impact. That is what this is about: if we take even the fact that EUR 190 million is currently planned directly to support regional development, we recall that the whole structural envelope is 3.7 billion, and if we put 190 million correctly in terms of regional development, but several billion amplify the so-called false effect, there is no particular result and there is still an increase in disparities in regional terms. Thank you. I'm ready to answer questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U117	Thank you. You have questions. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U118	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Well, that's a good decision. It's a good decision, undoubtedly. The state must, of course, pay more attention to even Jürgen Near, you see, like, this is particularly welcome in the development of regions in this situation. But at the same time, I think that peripheralization still has such a serious problem that we have subterranean county centers. In fact, it is probably just because we are putting more euro money on land here, and that is very right, so we have to do it, I don't think we will solve this problem. How do you think we should start talking about more serious domestic redistribution, the redistribution of state budget revenue from the capital to the rest of the world?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U119	Thank you. I agree that equality must be treated equally and unequally. If we look at regional inequality, now it is a question of what this overall objective is. If we give it to everyone in the same way, the development may go on, but the difference is that the difference between the so-called differences in development is basically going to be exactly the same. In the case of European Union funds, of course, the leverage is rather in favour of Harjumaa, and it does not even remain the same. If we want to reduce this difference, there is no other solution in the world, I have not heard of it, but that more will be given where the situation is worse. This concerns both the redistribution of national or national tax money and the redistribution of European Union funds. By the way, every county actually has development plans or development strategies. And let's just say that the criticism of them has often been that there are a lot of things being written down and the focus on the ground is missing. But the reason why there is a lack of focus on the ground is, firstly, that normally, if you want to get money from some European Union funds, you want to see that this is a strategically important priority for the county. This means that everyone is going to put their things in there because no one on the ground knows what action is coming. And another more important reason is this. If we think that there are different areas of activity, there is a social sector and there is a culture in which, in this case, I would focus on jobs and entrepreneurship in the context of this draft, and not so much on other areas, and we wonder how much local governments can actually influence entrepreneurship or the development of entrepreneurship in these counties, it is quite little. What can be done is done by all local governments in Estonia and doing very well, in terms of pipes, streets and all kinds of connections, etc. It's a very good thing to do, isn't it? However, if we are talking about the need to increase the export capacity of a company in the region, for example, it is necessary to take a technological step in order to be able to produce better and more, there is no money on the ground for such subsidies. When we look at the country, much of this kind of business support is also made by the country for euro money. As long as we do not take into account the need on the ground, these stories remain such a beautiful story that business development can be dealt with on the ground. It's just that these local authorities don't have a lot of capacity on the ground. Perhaps the budget of the city of Tallinn would allow something to be done and the city of Tartu, probably, but it is quite difficult for the rest of Estonia's municipalities. So I fully agree that, both in the case of euro money and in fact in the case of the tax money that we collect, if we do not redistribute it in favour of less successful regions, we will not reduce the difference.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U120	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress, thank you for this presentation and for the description of the problem. But maybe it would be quite appropriate to describe this problem now also in the period ending with a particular example. This bill concerns a new period that we are about to start, but it is always good to describe what is wrong. Maybe you have some examples of an enduring period where at first glance there seems to be equal sharing, where everyone has equal competition, but in fact, as far as the regions are concerned, it significantly increases inequality across Estonia and increases competitive advantages in the Tallinn and Tartu regions, in their golden circle.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U122	Thank you. I may say, first of all, that in this very explanatory memorandum, who has read it, some examples are given. I will repeat, just in case, one example from a monitoring report by the Ministry of Finance itself on the regional development plan. And here's an example, here are two tables, one for infrastructure development and the other for business development. I would rather focus on this development of entrepreneurship. The following measures have been considered for the development of entrepreneurship: start-up support, support for participation of low-educated adults in education and training, the expansion of the labour market to new target groups, the provision of new labour market services, the R &amp; D programme, investment in resource-efficient technologies in smart specialisation growth areas. And that list is pretty long. According to the same report, only about 20% of selected business development grants with a clearly defined project area with county precision had reached Harju and Tartu County by the end of 2018. Just about 20%. The remaining 80% landed in Tallinn, Harju- and Tartu County. And the example of infrastructure is here: 44% of the measures aimed at infrastructure development were outside two major urban areas. It is mentioned here, by the way, when you look into this smart specialisation measure, something that is also very interesting. I have a state of affairs here at the end of 2019, a doctoral thesis observed that very much money was no longer used in the big picture, giving a sense of how this money was distributed. With regard to cooperation with universities, 16.4 million were distributed to Tallinn and Tartu. I stress: this cooperation with universities was intended for the development of businesses, not especially for universities for the development of entrepreneurship. And it was not only Tallinn and Tartu's goal, it was Estonia as a whole. But 96% of this money landed in Tallinn and Tartu. As regards the development of this business in this smart specialisation, there were 44.1 million euros, 63% of which reached Harjumaa, Tartu County 14%, and the whole of Estonia received 23%. You can take more and more of these numbers. In fact, that is what this increase in inequality is all about. If we usually simply take these measures based on national competition and do not say or see whether there is a'money pot' for the regions, it does not change the rates of ownership in favour of the weaker, or it does not consciously channel money more into rural areas and small towns, the inequality will increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U123	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U124	Good manager! Good waitress! There used to be a guy like Kaul Nurm. And the Free Party was once a party here. I remember Kaul writing and actively fighting to divide Estonia into two: one is this golden ring and Tartu is a bit around it, and the rest is a poor country. But this hope of dividing Estonia into two went like a water drag. Why do you think he went running water? This is a sympathetic approach in itself, but how does it end?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U125	Thank you. I don't know exactly why he went running water. Were there no analyses to understand this situation? Because we have, if I remember correctly now, perhaps 17 years, perhaps less, used European Union funds. I may be wrong here, but we're really, really long. Was there no previous analysis or...? I tend to think that there was perhaps a lack of political will. Faith that the free market will set everything right, it doesn't really work. The free market to the end is as unfair as possible, it always mobilises resources where they already exist and, as a rule, takes away resources where they do not exist. In this case, all of this also shows how it has gone like this, such simply free competition, without state intervention. How's that going now? I'd like to hope it goes well. We all have the opportunity today to support this bill and to give guidance to the government. I know there are a lot of people in the Ministry of Finance who are working to ensure that all the principles that I have spoken about come true here, but, as far as I know, not all ministries want to go along with this at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U126	Thank you. Looks like there's more questions for you. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U127	Thank you, good Chairman. Dear waitress, In fact, there are opportunities to give rural areas a better platform for using euro money for their priorities. We can differentiate this self-financing rate, give additional points in the call for proposals, or only focus them on rural areas. Already in developing the measure, account could be taken of the interests and capacities of rural areas compared to the city. Is there a government decision now, for example, that rural areas receive lower self-financing rates? Has there been a signal from the government that any of these possible instruments will be used? And if not, in fact, the fact that the Riigikogu provides a direction that is important for Estonia's long-term development is balanced development is inevitable.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U128	Thank you. As far as I am aware, this does not concern now the use of all this money in the Ministry of Finance, as I said before, many people, officials who deal with it. I know that direct regional development subsidies, some of them at least, are also planned in such a way that more can be said and influenced on the ground. That's the plan. The Ministry of Social Affairs has exactly the same plans for some measures. So in this sense, we are moving in the right direction. The problem is the same as I said before: EUR 190 million of European Union funds will be channelled directly to regional development, but we will share billions. If 190 million goes right and a billion or two goes wrong, eventually splits up wrong, then that 190 million doesn't have much effect. It has to be a line through. If we look at the same draft, we will see that it does not tell the government exactly how and what measures to take. It says the principles on which to base. Even when it comes to such regional action lines, it is also said: generally. Indeed, there is a part of the European Union's money, the Structural Funds, which cannot be channelled to land, because they are intended either for a university or for medicine or for an urban area. Of course, we do not have to spread this around Estonia, and we cannot do that, regulations do not allow it. But this whole list of principles here does not limit the government and does not say whether these measures need to be developed in one way or another; it simply provides a direction to make sure that this margin of inequality disappears. That is an important point of this bill. As far as I know, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is currently the least involved with the idea of putting such regional principles into these rounds of applications. This is the biggest problem in the sense that this draft, once again, does not concern the social, cultural or health sector in particular, but concerns jobs. This concerns the development of entrepreneurship. And there is nothing to be done, and the development of measures affecting the development of entrepreneurship takes place in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. This amount is also remarkably high, which in this area over the next six years, say, 6+2 is still left, or will be distributed during this period.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U129	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U130	Thank you. I will ask you another question about one issue that you and I have discussed. This concerns a challenge that is equally an opportunity for rural areas and, on the other hand, also helps us nationwide, namely in the context of achieving climate objectives. In fact, rural areas are one of the places with great potential, because there is land there. And in order to achieve these goals, especially the distributed generation of electricity, this land is needed. After all, this is also an opportunity for the state to support, for example, protecting people living in the countryside and their businesses against rising energy prices by allowing them to produce more electricity for themselves. Two things at a time: national goals and local benefits. However, I see that we do not currently have any similar measures open there, either from one institution or from another, to support rural enterprises in generating their own electricity.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U131	Yes, thank you! As far as I know, no such measures are currently open. These measures may come, but as far as I know at the moment, if anyone [knows] can correct it, not all measures are yet ready. And six years is a long period. I do not know that such a direct action for rural areas is currently planned. That would actually be a very important thing. For example, the same first principle, concerning the directing of EUR 350 million to rural areas, i.e. taking these measures according to local needs, will also help to solve this problem: when people move to large cities, this means that much knowledge will also leave the area. Do what you want, some regions are very capable and can manage, but there are two kinds of knowledge of rural areas and small towns in Estonia. One of these is the capacity to produce economic analyses and anticipate the future at least at the level of the ministries and capital, and the other is the increasingly important capacity to understand all the greening and climate objectives. If we think only that we have EUR 3 billion in climate money during this period, then I see that there is a new place of inequality here on knowledge. I have been in contact with a lot of local governments, and I say again that some are very good, are doing climate-energy plans, are planning, are meaningful, but others have not even made it there yet. They haven't even figured it out yet: that's the amount of money coming, that's what's affecting it. Let's just say that this climate money is not just about forestry or transport. In fact, in the end, this is also very much about the development of entrepreneurship and jobs. I do have concerns about what can come from the knowledge of how to use this money, how to ask for this money, how to plan and see what happens to business in our region, and how to help there. If this knowledge does not move out of the city, we will finally look back at this period in six or seven years' time, and then it must be acknowledged again that climate goals are being dealt with well around the capital and in Tartu County, but the rest of Estonia has been sluggish about this. But there are also reasons to look inside. In this sense, I think this principle is also very important. We also do not prescribe how exactly these measures must be taken by the government, based on an on-the-spot need. It may well look like whatever form of cooperation it is, you will meet the needs on the ground and the needs of the state and it will take action. So there doesn't just have to be a need on the ground. And today's version, where there is only a "state vision," a vision of such a big picture, which is not always wrong, but is mostly right, just not working in favour of regional development.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U132	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I am asking about the distribution of support rates based on GDP per capita according to point 2 of the draft. Did you also have a discussion or a sense that you could use the local government revenue base, where income tax and the entire Equalisation Fund and the Support Fund as a whole have been added? Or did you stick to GDP for this reason to look at the county as a whole? Or what made you actually opt for GDP? Why is it GDP, not, for example, the municipal income base, which can actually be determined in a much more precise way?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U133	Thank you. The municipality's revenue base may reflect, but may not always reflect the situation in the region. Perhaps the municipality is too small a unit [to base it] when we start developing measures. Rather, you should look at the county or even the region, it would be much bigger. Yes, we have not said in advance how this should be done, but we assume that the government will not make [decisions] by municipality, but rather look larger, regionally. This makes more sense because this knowledge, as I said before, is again on the ground [not necessarily]. Perhaps the question is whether in any municipality it is possible to obtain so much of this knowledge on the ground or to find it on the spot to go through all these complex processes. Rather, the logic is that it is more certain to do so at the level of the county, or it is more certain to do so even at the level of the region. But it could be the government's decision again. The principle is important.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U134	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U135	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear waitress, One question haunts me. All these things we're talking about today are coming from a house, the Treasury Department. The regional development strategy will be drawn up by them at the Ministry of Finance. They're making these reports, aren't they? They, too, are planning all these measures that should support regional development and make all our regions more equal, we are not such a big country, are we? What, then, is the question that, in all these 15 and more years, when we have implemented European funds, we have still not been able to channel this money into the right path, even though this whole thing comes from the same house? Is it a question of political will? Is this about the inability of officials? Or is it the same principle that everyone, every municipality, every region, look at themselves, how can it be done, and if it can't, it's stupid? What's this about? Why can't we even make deals within the same house?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U136	Thank you. It is very difficult to answer such a complex question. I certainly don't know the one true answer. If we look at how all this EU funding is planned, then the country has objectives, these are national targets, we need some results in some area, they are written in national development strategies. There's a real conflict there. And that's the question of options. In this sense, there is a conflict that a country can achieve its goal, but there may be a going back on the ground in a particular region in this area. This is possible, even in terms of economic development, for example, in Harju County, the value could increase significantly, but it could decrease significantly elsewhere. In fact, that's what's happened all the time. Since Harju County is so large, it can achieve this national target alone or with another region, but this does not mean that it is happening evenly across Estonia. And that does not mean that the rest of Estonia can contribute, there may be losses. Maybe there are choices all the time. And another thing, if we go back in time to the previous period or to the previous one, we certainly had much less experience using these financial resources at that time. Today, I dare say, quite a lot of analysis has been done, there has been quite a lot of research to date, and today the numbers show very clearly how these things are going. So now the alarm goggles should be a lot more specific, and we should look at it differently. Now there is an input to make these decisions differently. And now, I say, it is really a question of will, whether there is political will to think about this regional development too, or whether it is just a priority for the overall development of the country, which means that the rest of Estonia is basically told: bye-bye, pakaa, do it yourself! Because there is nothing to do about investment, especially when there is investment in entrepreneurship, the European Union's resources are the largest resource we use. There's nothing to do. And if we have the largest resource that we distribute, misallocations across the country, then it will also have the effect of increasing inequality.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U137	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U138	Thank you. Good waitress Lauri! Both the Chancellor of Justice and the President have just said, and there has been a discussion in the public about where we have reached with our state budget. Parliament no longer understands very precisely or at times does not understand what is really inside the state budget and what is not. And when we look at the sums of euro money, they sometimes give the impression that there are billions that are unfathomable. Nor have I noticed that we in this Chamber of Riigikogu would have gone into them and talked about what would actually happen for them and what would happen in our society for this money. How do you think this process could look any different, or is it that we are using euro money that is clear enough for both Parliament and the public and that these funds are clearly targeted?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U139	Thank you. Basically, this bill is partly trying to do, to level out this gap or deficit. When you think about how the European Union's financial resources are being planned, it may have been again at the time, I am talking about the time that Estonia joined the European Union for some reason, but I do not think that makes any sense at the moment. After all, this is how the government negotiates with the European Commission and then plans an implementation plan there. And it is indeed said that the different strategies of the "Estonia 2035" strategy are the basis for this implementation plan. In fact, the government is coordinating the implementation of the programme with the European Commission on the use of all these billions of structural funds. This process should be more or less complete by now. The concern is simply that we in this Parliament have not once talked about the billions that will be used in the next six years. And at some point, we're gonna have the Structural Support Act. It is a very bureaucratic document that says who is the applicant, how the use of European Union funds is controlled, etc. We can be for it or against it. And then there will be measures. Then there will be measures, in principle ready measures, not on paper, or on decision-making, but on the principles of measures through the state budget. Every time we approve, reject, or say that we do so or do so. The Riigikogu does not speak with much more in directing this money. In my opinion, this is just as big or even bigger a problem as the state budget, which has also been made so round that, at least in the document that has been presented to us so far in recent years, no one understands it. European instruments are just as much a problem. I would dare say that Parliament does not, in essence, decide on these principles or directions. They're set by the government, negotiated by the government, and we're just here to knock. We go to the state budget to knock on these things. Indeed, the circles of engagement were made, and the Socialist Group, too, sent basically the same principles that could be used to plan these instruments. And indeed, strategy-driven planning is also a very important matter. But let's just say that the principles of regional development have not been included in the strategies as such. Unfortunately, the Riigikogu is not involved in this. That's where we're rubber stamps. I think that if this draft is supported, we will change this situation quite significantly. And I think that consideration should also be given to the future so that the next funding periods could start differently, they could start with a debate in Parliament. We could discuss which way we look and which way we want to move. The government could then engage in more concrete negotiations with the European Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U140	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U141	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I would dare to call it a bill of cry for help, in the sense that the Riigikogu directly directs the order to do something and to balance this regional view a little bit. But at the same time, maybe he's a little bit of an endless hope for doping. In my opinion, the country is a structure with a very great power and power to guide development by making decisions every day, as Finland has done, taking very clear examples: if we have wind farms coming, we will train wind farm builders and technicians somewhere, if we say that the energy of the future is hydrogen, then we will agree that there will be a hydrogen plant somewhere, we will work in this direction, etc. How do you feel about us skipping this important step again, not making up for the damage we have suffered, even in the form of a land tax on the municipality, collecting wealth in the city, but leaving poverty in the country? Maybe we're still doing something wrong with that key, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U142	Thank you. I agree with the logic that, on all other issues, such direct directional choices should be made, not only in the case of European Union funds. With regard to the local governments' income base, for example, we are very clearly faced with the problem that, when people of working age are concentrated in metropolitan areas, rural areas are left with considerably more older people in an already ageing country. We know how measures that level out the differences in municipal income have been built up. There are odds, so randomly older people as coefficients give the least boost to this funding. Perhaps the ageing of the population will also result, for example, in a reduction in the income base of local governments and in all other things. But in the case of euro money, two thoughts on doping. First of all, I think that if we say that we are channeling money more and more consciously into regional development, or at least we are watching it spread out in a balanced way across the country, it cannot be called doping in this sense that we already have it, we are using it, we do. Rather, at present, this support is too much for such more advanced or faster developing regions, rather than for regions with slower growth. And the second problem of doping, which also concerns this new period, is what the Auditor General has probably pointed out already in 2017 that very much of the European Union's resources are being used to finance the country's fixed costs. And that's one big problem. In this sense, doping is that if we took away the European Union's resources from fixed costs, it is likely that the current tax system and the way the state operates will not be consistent. There's probably some changes to make. The circumstances went differently, the prediction was that these major changes needed to be made for this period, but we have done better. There has not been such a reduction in money; rather, crises and grassroots have given us more opportunities, but something must certainly be done for the next period, because such doping will not last long.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U143	Heiki Hepner, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U144	Thank you. However, my question relates to the possible use of subsidies and indeed to the green turn. How do you see what role we should take into account in the context of the green turn and if something like the wood refining plant would fit into this plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U145	Thank you. The wood refining plant specifically, well, that's the choice of the moment, how or how they want to do it. In principle, of course, any such form of enterprise fits in with the euro money plan. The question is simply whether and how it will help to achieve national objectives. This decision must be taken on the spot at this point in time before these things are done. But in the context of this whole green turn, I think it is very important to decide these principles here. The same thing that I mentioned earlier, in addition to these principles, in addition to channelling money into the region, would mean accepting and following these principles, and it would also mean that the government and the state will be able to give more of their expertise on the ground, the knowledge that is in the ministries. If you have to start matching needs on the ground and the needs of the country, well, then you have to sit at a table with someone. Clearly, the state has a better analytical capacity and foresight in some areas than local governments or county councils and development centres, so we can support it. Green turn. I think there are, in fact, many areas or activities that could also provide this effect in rural areas. I'm just thinking about Järvamaa, for example, big farms and biomethane, biomethane production, it's green fuel, so there's potential. The question is again that entrepreneurs can notice whether the municipality can. Perhaps there are smaller entrepreneurs who have not thought about it. Then, for example, there may be a need for action on the ground, which also drives smaller businesses to think and act by securing jobs on the ground. So there's potential.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U146	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U147	Thank you very much for introducing the bill. I can say that in certain ministries, such as the Ministry of Social Affairs, there has, however, been a view that takes things into account over and over. For example, the construction of homes for people with special needs, even though it is a service provided by the state, the map of Estonia was taken and reviewed so that these homes are still located in such a way that the service is available everywhere. Similarly, there has been the creation of health centres when the whole has been looked at. Can you give us another good example of the fact that before you did this bill, you certainly looked over more things from a ministry that has [thought] as a whole? Once again, these examples concerned the services provided by the State and those provided by the State, which took into account the regional dimension, but is there any other ministry that could be cited as a good example?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U148	Yes, there are also positive examples of each ministry's responsibility. The logic is a little different, but the Ministry of Rural Affairs is a very good example. Here is also an example: as of April 2018, almost 80% of the support related to the implementation of the rural development plan went outside the Harju and Tartu counties. So there has certainly been a significant impact. And there are examples to be provided by all ministries. Maybe with this bill, you can't say no one's done anything before. We're not saying that. It has been done, very good things have been done, but if we look at the big picture and read what the studies say, especially about structural instruments, then unfortunately [a lot] have gone wrong. It can't be said that some ministries have taken measures in the past to give only Tallinn and Tartu or Harjumaa and Tartu County. No, it's not. It is in the same logic that there is competition at national level, and in good faith that everyone is now asking for subsidies, but unfortunately, the way has gone is that the more capable have simply taken away this money. Perhaps the best example in the bad sense and also in the good sense is support for the reconstruction of KredEx apartment buildings. We all remember years ago when the round was announced. In my opinion, it was the money that was applied for in minutes. And unfortunately, most of the applicants were rather housing associations in the city of Tallinn, who were more capable, bigger, etc. It was easier for them to get a loan from the bank, everything, all the projects were ready, the button was pressed and the money was asked for. Currently, KredEx shares the same principle, which is here [point 3 of the draft] No. 3 Estonia is divided into five regions, and it is not possible that Tallinn will take away South-Estonia's money, for example, but for South-Estonia the pot is meant to be distributed from there. Perhaps there are good examples under the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. I hope that I am not mistaken, I think there should still be this measure under the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, so there are also good examples.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U149	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U150	Thank you. Mr President, Mr. 390 waitress! I would like to begin by thanking you for a very thorough introduction and also for the very good answers in this Chamber, but I also have a question. When Riina Sikkut asked as a tallinian, I ask as a tartian. How is the principle of fair treatment of regions in the channelling of money still guaranteed? And if we start giving preference to any regions, doesn't that violate equal treatment? I hope you can answer this question well.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U151	Thank you. As I said, this principle should be such that equality is treated equally and unequally. So there will be more support for those who need help and support, and fewer support for those who do not need support and can take care of themselves. Actually, the same principle here is also. But let's think about this really big picture and the costs, I'll give you a few examples. When jobs are lost in the region or there is no more skilled work, people often move to larger areas, mostly urban areas. In the sense of the state, costs are actually increasing. Even if these people do not move away, one possibility is that they do not move away, but stay on the road, the costs for people - transport and public expenditure, for example, on road use - will increase. When people move to cities, they need to build more infrastructure, they need to build new homes, buildings and all the things that we already have all over Estonia. Those that are all over Estonia will remain unused or will be much less used. In the country's sense, you have to make extra investments, and that might make life more expensive. A good example is, in fact, smaller schools and funding for education, or the problem of teacher deprivation, which is very much discussed. We basically have primary schools all over Estonia, but since many people have moved to live in urban regions, there have been more people, there have come young families and children, and as a result, quite a lot of schools have been opened and will continue to be opened. Now, in these earlier schools, teachers' positions are preserved, teachers must be there. In fact, we create more schools across Estonia, and we directly amplify the problem of lack of teachers. If we look at what the solution is now, the government's solution seems to be that we are going to cut down on smaller schools. But it is not a problem in the local area that people will be reduced there, that is, let's say, a huge shortage or a gap in national regional policy. In fact, people are often forced to leave the area because there are often no opportunities that they want. For example, because we have suffered so badly from this whole process, in terms of the development of the country, small schools are now being hit.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U152	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U153	Good manager! Good waitress! Well, this plan, split Estonia into two, went like hell. The current desire to direct the stream of money towards another Estonia is sympathetic, but my question is whether it can't happen that the heart just stops because the stream of money is so great. Is this 10% of the Cohesion Fund so clashed that it is the right one, the heart won't stop and the money won't be spent, or could it be 20% or 5%? Where's that 10% taken from?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U154	Thank you. This 10% is the analysis and perception of the drafters. My own personal opinion would be that, of course, this number should be bigger. Fortunately, this draft states "at least 10%," so in fact, the government can contribute significantly more to regional development, so it does not have to be 10%, in accordance with the principles endorsed by the Riigikogu. It is likely that 5%, if we think about billions and hundreds of millions, would be too little. And in addition to the 350 million to 190, well then this amount is starting to move there by a third of half the structural money, it could have an effect, because some money still moves into rural areas with such national calls for proposals, it's not just that it stays in cities. If you add that to it, it'll probably have that effect. Research has not done exactly what this amount must be, but it is such a fundamental political choice. We are certainly delighted when an amendment is tabled on the draft and there is support for a significantly higher amount to be allocated to regional development.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U155	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U156	Good manager! Good waitress! Here's the question. Here before Peter asked if 10% was a lot or not. I guess it's always in the eye of the viewer. But the goal is to develop entrepreneurship and create jobs. Can you give some examples of what these things could be, what they could do for money? And could this distribution of money also be in such a way that, since we know the capacity of each municipality, the amount corresponding to 10% would be distributed among the municipalities and, at the same time, the objectives would be in the place for which it is, infrastructure or something else? Entrepreneurship support is always a little bit of a question mark. There should not be such an inequality of competition that public money is being given in some area, but someone else must do it by their own means.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U157	Yes, thank you! Now, why exactly use this money? In fact, given the needs of the region, the government should achieve this result with people on the ground. But the principle is the same, in the sense that we are simply taking national measures today. If, for example, we need to increase the export capacity of companies and we are taking a national measure, then we can consider whether, for example, to take a support measure that is trying to take some kind of Estonian average. This means that there may be too little in Tallinn and there may be too many of these demands in Valgamaa. However, we can also take the same measure with the logic that we are going to South Estonia and see what is most needed there if we are to increase the export capacity of companies. We are designing this measure according to the needs of this region. It could be in tourism, it could be in any field in such a way that there is basically the same logic: given what we are doing now at national level in achieving the objectives, we would be meeting more needs on the ground.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U158	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U159	Thank you, Honourable President-in-Office. Good Lauri! This is undoubtedly a very necessary initiative and a draft. I began to think that when we restored our country 30 years ago, we all had the dream that we could live at least as well as in the European Union or in the European Community at the time. At the time, it certainly seemed like a beautiful dream. Now, 30 years later, our capital region survives the European Union average, while the rest of Estonia is still a very big step away from it. In my opinion, we could have such a national goal that we will also be helping the rest of Estonia in the next decade, so that we can survive all of Estonia at least on the average level of the European Union. How would this draft contribute to achieving this objective?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U160	Thank you, dear Juske. This reminded me that I missed the second half of Peter Ernits' question, or rather the first half. I just remembered, I forgot it before. Basically the same thing I would like to say as regards whether the heart stops or not. Again, the Riigikogu Development Monitoring Centre has done a very grateful job and has analysed not only the trends and situation of Estonian regional development, but also taken into account other European examples of solutions that have been tried and had an impact. There is one very simple conclusion that should actually be taken into account here, we in Estonia, and that we all know just the old people, or I don't know who's been using it for a long time, it's that the chain is still as strong as the weakest link in the chain. Perhaps, on the basis of other world practices, economic growth is slowing down at one point, when certain regions are no longer coming along, they are not able to run along. If one region gets out of the way and others fail to follow, economic development will simply slow down as a result. We also know that at some point you may have to start directing more subsidies into the social sphere or elsewhere in these regions, and then there will be chains of reactions or chains of events that may not even allow the potential that existing people have to be exploited so well in this region anymore. Perhaps the heart of the country will stop if we continue our spectator policy and everything is concentrated on Harju and Tartu County then the heart will stop. And the question is, is... I must have forgotten the end of it. [[The floor shall be specified.]] Yes, it will probably contribute quite a lot, because, as I said, the European Union's resources are one of the largest resources that the country can use to channel investment and development. If we do not consciously use them to reduce regional disparities, then we do not have very many other instruments to use. After all, most of the money we collect as taxes has been decided in principle, nor have there been any such initiatives in hundreds, hundreds, hundreds or billions, and it is very likely that they will also be very difficult to do. So it is easier to channel the European Union's resources correctly.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U161	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U162	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I wanted to ask if it was also meant for this potential NGO tourism, which means that perhaps a good company in Tallinn is seeking to sew a button on the jacket, but a similar NGO is there somewhere in our southern countries, where they want to sew a jacket on the button again. How much this could affect the decision-making process, we understand. But have you also taken into account the possibility that quite a number of non-profit institutions create a so-called partner MTU?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U163	Thank you. Our idea, however, concerns job creation or any development in existing jobs. It's business, I don't think the NGO should go down there at all. And I personally think that it is very difficult to think that some of the pedestrian routes go under measures to develop entrepreneurship. It's still a more classic approach, so if you have a company, you do something, you produce something, or you start and you want to get somewhere, then the goal should be this. I believe the NGOs should stay out of this, at least according to the logic of jobs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U164	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U165	Thank you. The idea of this draft decision is extremely good and is supported by one hundred percent. But I would just like to say that if we do not have balanced thinking and socio-economic analysis as a basis for all these things, then we will actually achieve nothing. Our euphoric conservation has led us to make rural people depend on subsidies, or those who get tired of this thing just go away. A good example is Alutaguse, where, for the sake of the protected area, it is actually like a second deportation. Without shame, I dare say it, I've been there and I've seen these things. And I'm very sad, actually. It's a thing made without thinking. But I now come to the point that we were talking about measures and whether there were any. In fact, there are a lot of measures now. It is a matter of course the rules on which these measures are based. My question. There is money from the European Union, there are rules from the European Union, and the aim is very right, but it often happens in practice that it turns out as always. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] What would be the assurance that this objective will achieve the expected result, and what should we consider that the result will come when this law comes?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U166	Thank you. Well, the first assumption is that there must be will. Actions usually result from human will, human principles, and values. That's the first assumption. At the moment, I have no reason to doubt why we could not have this will in this Chamber, for example, and why the government could not have this will, although I know that in the meantime, for example, at the moment, the government is having difficulty finding that will. That's part of why this bill is here, but I believe that somewhere they might still have that will if they were taken into account in these matters. But I think that the principles could be the ones that will lead the whole process to this path, in order for these measures and attitudes to develop properly. Well, politics is always a matter of will. I think it is very important that there are such large amounts of money and that, at the end of the day, money will always have a big impact, that the large amount of money will have a particularly big impact, that Parliament will shape and express its position to the government. I believe that this would have a significant impact.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U167	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U168	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I want to ask you, if such a thing, if such a decision ever comes into force, is accepted, then what does it mean in practice? Take the example of my municipality of residence, Viimsi municipality. Let's say this example of apartment buildings you're running through here, but we have individual buildings basically, there are apartment buildings too, but they're a little bit more recent than maybe here in Tallinn on average. What happens then? You take money from a street lighting project in Viimsi parish, or you take money from a light traffic road? We are not very dependent on euro money, although we do have some projects. But what does that mean for Viimsi parish, for example? Or will any tourism development project related to islands be taken away and [this money] be directed somewhere in southern Estonia? Or what does that mean? It's really hard for me to understand. I read your draft decision several times, but I didn't understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U169	Thank you. Indeed, here is a list of which municipalities should not go under this logic and Viimsi is one of them, because it is a golden circle with Tallinn and there are no problems with development and economic development if we compare the situation within Estonia. As the honourable Jaak Juske pointed out here, Tallinn still has a better life than the European average. However, there are very many regions in Estonia where people live less than the European average. There is no need to take anything directly from the latter, because no one has specifically developed these measures. It is a matter of principle that, according to these principles, the government can take these measures. You don't have to take anything off the islands. I assume that if you follow these principles, there will be more money for the islands. The regions where more support is needed should receive more euro money. How will it be done in concrete terms, how will it be implemented in concrete terms? I think it is very sensible for it to be decided in more detail by the government, which has much more knowledge, much better insight and, in fact, the capacity to negotiate and discuss with representatives on the ground, which needs more support in this region and which does not. I come back to this basic problem once that the main problem of national support measures has so far been that more capable of taking away this money to a large extent and less capable of reaching this money. They happen to be more capable in Harjumaa and Tartu County and, as a result, the European Union's resources are more concentrated in those areas where they are already doing well. But it will further exacerbate regional inequality. The whole point of this bill is to hold back the growth of inequality and, in fact, not only to slow down but also to reduce it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U170	No further questions for you. Thank you! Jürgen Ligi, on behalf of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, is now welcome to present. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U171	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance discussed this draft on 21 September and decided to propose that it be rejected at first reading. There were six votes in favour, one abstention and one against. Riina Sikkut was against. She didn't explain why she was against. And there was an impartial vote on the EKRE. The explanation or explanation is, I will not repeat what was said in the main report, however, that Estonia is one region according to the European Union's policy. And while regional policy is also being emphasised here, the main instrument for regional policy for Europe is no longer euro money for a long time. The projects here have completely different higher demands and volumes. Pushing this money away from Tallinn, which is not very far away, is quite difficult by project. There is a dilemma: on the one hand, efficiency, the number of beneficiaries and the scale of the changes that have been brought about, and on the other hand, whether it is wise to force this money regionally on the worst, administrative numbers. I am going to say right now that 10% of this should be at least 10%, is significantly less than the ambition that the government actually has. In this sense, it is also about breaking into an open door. We want to prescribe something for the government, which is little for him in theory, but of course we don't know what the end result is. The end result may be the implementation of this money where people do not live very much. This is actually a regional political fact. So it could be a failure. But yes, above all, 10% is not a very high bar to talk about it so much. The European Union, in principle, no longer deals with such very local matters; it wants to make major changes. Regional inequality is something that is still expected to be resolved by the state from its local tax money. It's all well like this, let's say, subtle mechanics. It is impractical to monitor Brussels here. And to write down the rules that come out of the money controlled by Brussels, well, there is no practical reason. A separate argument is that European money is often or has so far been meant to be, we do not yet know the whole scheme for large, cross-estonian projects. It also includes a large infrastructure, isn't it, which is not necessarily linked to one region, but is certainly linked to more active economic activity and population density. We can say that inequality increased, but empty it increased, just doing something practical. This does not mean, for example, that more distant citizens will not get a job or benefit from their realization if projects are realised near Tallinn or Tartu. Over-Estonian projects or reforms also concern things that we have traditionally done, such as school networks or vocational reforms in different periods. After all, this has been a conscious all-Estonian division. Estonia will be looked at as a whole, in accordance with similar principles and objectives. Or the social network that we've been asking about. They are certainly trying to be as regional as possible, but the region means that the region includes, unfortunately, the wealthiest part of Estonia. This view that now in the province, if I may say so, is a poor capacity to apply for money, was not particularly supported by the Commission. If you look at the municipal elections, these campaigns, then it is still a huge deal of appeal to the promise that we will bring you this and the other European money. And these trainings are very massive. For the current operational programme, which the European Commission is about to confirm for Estonia, seminars and guidance materials are also intended to make this money available from one region to another. We did not have much of that feeling in the Commission that this is a major problem. And now what's offered instead? Well, it must be stressed very strongly that there was no doubt in the Commission that the objective of reducing regional disparities was a noble one. There's no doubt about that, but the method is a little too flat and the bar is a little low. At the same time, European money in this bulking method is a bit bulging if it still goes towards specific eligibility and agreed reform directions. The country itself can be much more flexible here. At the same time, where there is flexibility in the use of European money, this is also something to be thought of. Since there are no agreements yet, we can only talk about analyses and thinking and disputes, which we also encourage authorities to do. For example, the regional component would receive additional plus points if it went to consider and select projects. It shouldn't be absolute, but these are extra plus points. Then there is the place where we are considering or looking, because here too, Europe has its own framework, whether there must be a specific size of co-financing projects within one of these strands, but the size of co-financing is also tried to play regionally, so that in poorer regions it is smaller and, in percentage terms, an additional contribution from the European budget. Well, there you go. Once again, the idea is not very new, but it is also very noble, just the instrument which was not approved by the Commission once again. And I've already talked about alternatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U172	Mr Kokal, this time Aivar Kokal has a point of clarification. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U173	Good manager! Good waitress! I'm just asking what you think. So far, is it as if well-divided to share money from the European Union between different regions? I am looking at today's press release from the Minister of Finance on the recovery plan, and I read here that the majority of this billion remains in Tallinn. Whether it is the 280 million or the Ülemiste joint terminal of Tallinn Hospital or the Old Port tram route. Maybe it's not a very bad idea to put some regional part in place. Although I say that I agree to a large extent with you that such big decisions, be they public schools, state secondary schools or health care, can also be agreed nationally. But right now, it seems like whoever's in power is going to go to its municipalities with more money. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U174	Thank you. This certainly does not, because the power does not have a party of the Minister of Finance or a party of the Prime Minister in Tallinn, where you say that the money goes the most. But my personal opinion, if you ask me, is not here [important], so I associate it with what was said in the [question] committee. It is precisely that big changes mean placing money, in the example of a green turn, where there is a great deal of non-green and where there are very many people. This is the only way to change. In the case of Tallinn Hospital, you can ask whether it is still necessary. The European Commission, too, is talking about Europe, because we are currently debating European policy and European money just does not really recommend that we develop concrete but content in medicine. This hospital is certainly one of the controversial projects. The fact that it is in Tallinn does not help the regional contribution. But when you think about the effectiveness of reforms, the fact that medicine is becoming more expensive and professionally complex and concentrated where there are people is once again an example of national reform. The fact that Tallinn and Tartu are in a better position here than Põlva or Abja-Paluoja is an absolute necessity and we cannot fight it with any quotas or percentages and therefore will not carry the sick to South Estonia if they live elsewhere because we managed to raise or channel money from Europe. It's not right either. But, yeah, are they perfect? Certainly, many things have not been ideal when using European money. I myself have criticised the inefficiencies in the use of European money in the respective agencies and the fact that its course is being taken differently. There is no need to think this through, because it is European money and as long as it is needed. But even if you spend it, you'll have trouble pointing him into a little sluggish slot.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U175	My colleagues have no further questions. Thank you! Let's go to the negotiations. Commence Social Democrats. Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U176	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, Very well said by a member of the Riigikogu in today's debate: it is a cry for help. That's the cry for help. If we look at all the studies, both the studies commissioned by the state itself and the studies carried out by universities, we will see that the European Union's resources, the Structural Funds' money and all other resources have not reduced the inequality between the Estonian regions, but, on the contrary, increased it. And if we look at the overall ideology of the support of this European Union, why does the European Union give money to the Member States? In order to balance development in different parts of Europe, in different regions, in the Member States. In order for us all to live at this level, as has already been said here today, the average or even better level of the European Union. The same principle could apply in Estonia. If we share aid for various projects and initiatives in Estonia, different regions, we should also consider that the development of Estonian regions is also balanced and that we all live more or less a similar life in similar living conditions in different corners of Estonia and have similar opportunities to develop life in our own city or municipality. We are only talking about 10% of the funds allocated to Estonia from the Structural and Investment Funds. It's not a lot of money. In the light of the already mentioned Tallinn Hospital, it is very small money. But this money would, according to social democrats' calculations, help create thousands of jobs in rural areas or make existing jobs more profitable. This is a small amount that we can do to achieve the real goal of European money in different corners of Estonia. There have also been good examples of earlier periods, some of them here have said, "How big things can be done with little money. " The previous speaker spoke here about the fact that the European Union does not want smaller projects, does not want smaller things. The European Union wants major changes. Ladies and gentlemen, The balanced development of Estonia's regions is a great thing; that is the big change that we should achieve. The Ministry of Finance will draw up a regional development strategy and set targets for how our regions must develop. The second floor of the Ministry of Finance draws up a distribution plan for European Union funds. Then they meet up on the middle floor and report to each other. Some say we spent all the money, we did well, but others say that the objectives of the regional development strategy have not been achieved. The poorer regions have become even poorer and the richer regions have become even richer. Ladies and gentlemen, It is high time to balance this matter. And it's really a cry for help. Let's look at the measures that we talked about, after all, they pass the Riigikogu with a big curve. The Riigikogu does not discuss them. The Riigikogu does not have this opportunity. In principle, all measures must tell us how they affect regional development, but when we look at them, the impact on regional development is mostly neutral: it is not going well, but it is not going badly. In conclusion, all these measures will give us a result, but the situation in terms of regional development is getting worse and worse. It's not just a cry for help from this hall, it's not just a cry for help from regions... Can I have an extra three minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U177	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U178	Thank you. This cry for help comes from scientists, the cry for help comes from universities, the cry for help comes from the same national monitoring committee for regional development strategy. Because we have not achieved the objective that we really want to ensure that Estonia's development is balanced. It was said here that in the new period, additional points are being tried to be applied to regional measures, to try to differentiate the co-financing. But the Social Democrats do not want to try, the Social Democrats offer a concrete solution that works. Because we, as the President urged us, do not want to drive in the backseat and wait for government officials to bring us these measures. We want to be proactive and prevent us from saying again in this Chamber in seven or eight years: we wanted the best, but it happened as always. That's not what we want. The role of the Riigikogu was already discussed here. We don't decide anything here, we'll find out where the money went afterwards. It is not possible to find very well in the state budget with a large-scale view, i.e. it would be possible to find it, but maybe not even then where the money actually goes. This draft decision directs real money to real needs, including the creation of jobs and the development of entrepreneurship in rural areas. And the recovery plan, which has already been mentioned here, is a very good example of how a billion euros went past the Riigikogu with an arch to make major changes in Tallinn's nodes and Tallinn's hospital system. How much does that get to the regions? Not too much. Ladies and gentlemen, I call for support to be given to the draft decision proposed by the Social Democrats so that the vote of the members of the Riigikogu can also be heard on the subject of a small amount of the billions that the European Union gives us in order to develop our regions. Then we shouldn't be ashamed to look in the mirror for what always happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U179	And now on behalf of the Isamaa Group, Heiki Hepner. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U180	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Regional policy is undoubtedly crucial to the development of our country. This draft seeks to resolve the difficulties that have arisen and is worthy of recognition in this respect. Today we have heard here that 10% is, as if, a little ambitious or that these problems can be resolved differently. That could be it. If the objective is a little ambitious, it is actually worth adding to ambition. I'll just get some keywords. A good colleague, Eduard, has already opened up some of the places where this money is going. I repeat here. Really, Tallinn major hospital and City Hall, on the other hand, counterbalance local roads and fast internet. We see that we need to create jobs in the countryside. We see that we need people to come back to Earth. Let's make these decisions in the end. Let's fix these roads and finally build this Internet. And we'll use those regional instruments to do that. Let me just give you an example. Less than 30 million euros have been allocated to municipalities to fund roads during the debate on the budget that is currently ahead. The Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities has seen that the minimum amount should be at least 45 million euros. The difference is 50%. This is a systematic problem that is getting worse year after year. Yes, I do not mind if we clean up the road in Tallinn, but it must not be at the expense of rural areas. Let's do these jobs and finally fix them. I really agree with the statement that there are things to be dimmed here, even thinking about a green turn. And here I would really like to make the same example again. We know that there has been a proposal to build a wood refining plant in Ida-Viru County. Now let's put it in the City Hall as a counterweight. Which is more important for the Estonian people in terms of regional development? No doubt, no doubt at all. So my appeal is this: let us not vote on this draft, but we will continue to process it, improve it and increase ambition. We still keep Estonian regional development working and Estonia alive with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U181	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The commission has proposed to reject the draft decision 390 at first reading, and we now need to vote it through. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? In particular, we are discussing draft decision 390 and the proposal of the lead committee to reject 390 OE at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U182	44 members of the Riigikogu supported the commission's proposal, 24 against. Draft Decision 390 has been rejected at first reading. We've passed today's bill. And now it is possible for all those who wish to sign up for a speech in a free microphone after the hammer hit.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U183	Free mike. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U184	Honourable Riigikogu! We have a very important item on the agenda on Thursday, namely the important national question "How to reach a restricted Estonia" initiated by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. discussion. The rapporteur is Tanel Kiik, Minister of Health and Labour, and the second rapporteur is Peep Talving, Member of the North Estonian Regional Hospital and COVID-19 Research Council, as well as Irja Lutsar, Professor at the Institute of Biomedicine and Translational Medicine at the University of Tartu and Head of the COVID-19 Scientific Advisory Board. This morning, however, the President of the Riigikogu, Jüri Ratas, solemnly announced that we have a limited time to ask questions here in the debate on a matter of important national importance in 15 minutes. It was extremely strange and incomprehensible to many members of the Riigikogu, because, as we know, this debate must be lively so that all the problems raised could be addressed in the course of this discussion and all possible solutions could be dealt with, but in essence this cannot be done with such a time limit. The problem is this: I would like to emphasise that public debates are, however, primarily intended to hold a political debate, not just to listen to the rapporteurs. Where are its roots? Basically, it is at the root of the Centre Party Group, which came up with such a proposal in this debate and thought that only 15 minutes could be left for the round of questions. 15 minutes! What does that mean? This means that according to practice, the Board of the Riigikogu does as the proposers have served it. And now we're at the 15 minutes. What can be done in 15 minutes? All you can do is ask one, two or three people and the waitress can answer as long as she wants. Perhaps if the people of the Centre Party's group are questioners, who get ahead of the round of quick fingers, they will be given answers within 15 minutes. And this is precisely on such an important subject as the question of how to reach a restricted Estonia. I ask what kind of debate this is. Can we have a debate here? But maybe the Centre Party thinks it can hold a debate. Of course, it will be possible for every member to speak here later, well, let us call it negotiations, but these are still messages that this negotiator or speaker points out, which, however, are not reflected in the answers actually given by the rapporteur to questions that cannot be asked. I am of the opinion that this is not a debate on how to reach a restricted Estonia, but a pure castration of the debate on a crucial national issue. I dare use that word because there is no political debate here. Clearly, this is to allow the waitresses to speak as much as they want in 15 or 20 minutes, and thus give the impression that we have done everything and that it is not possible to do Estonia without restrictions at the moment. The second objective, of course, is to avoid a political debate on this issue. Thank you, Centre Party! Thank you for this political debate. The Estonian people are extremely grateful to you for having this debate in this form.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U185	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U186	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, who have not yet fallen asleep! In 2017, I was a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs when the draft administrative reform was heated and polished. As of today, the National Audit Office has not analysed what came out of it. But it has now been very fresh in its analysis of how priority services and their availability have materialised in remote areas. There are 839 counties in Estonia, i.e. municipalities where there are more than 25 kilometres to the headquarters or the parish house. The most distant part is like French Guiana to France, which is the border island, the area behind the sea of the Tartu rural municipality, which I know quite well. Right now I just want to outline some of the moments that have happened, because the assessment of what the administrative reform actually provided has not been given five years later. What a test has been made of these parts, far away. And then what comes out? It turns out, in a very brief way, that first of all the commitments of the draft terms of merger in order to bring together the ever-greater [municipals], you remember, these carrots were, in fact, unrealistic and unclear. On their backs, the then parish leaders traveled to the common realm. And now it turns out that since the promises with which the wedding was made were unrealistic and unclear, now, of course, there is a problem with fulfilling them. The key question now is this: since the rooster starts to grovel on 17 October, i.e. the period by which libraries and small primary schools, for example, were allowed to remain, this time is falling, then it is already up to future councils to review it [once], close [schools and libraries] or continue. The country hasn't done anything here right now. But when I asked the regional minister today, he at least said he should do something to have some kind of support. Because the number of children in the periphery, or in those places called the periphery, naturally decreases. So this is one of those moments. But it is interesting, of course, to look at various services, how they have gone. Looking at Saaremaa, one rural municipality, also looked at the municipality of Tartu, which was formed from French so-called Guyana, Piirissaare, overseas, as well as Tabivere rural municipality, which was joined by force, or the rural municipality of the Ship or Hiiumaa and other countries. Getting construction permits on Riding Island before there were five days, now there are 55, Tõstamaa had before 20 days, now there are 70 days. What else? Let us look, for example, at social benefits. Well, when the municipalities were smaller, social benefits were often much higher than in the large ones. Let's say the soup's gotten thinner. Some examples: 65% of the social welfare budget went to the border island; 27% now goes to the social welfare budget. It took 65% in Blackfoot, now only 15%. Roads are also very different. For example, in Piirissaare and Saaremaa, the giant has been halved, in the outskirts of Pärnu, but Pärnu is known to be one of the largest cities in the world on the territory of Hiiumaa too, by the way, to be honest. So when you look at it, it's very different. For example, we look at construction permits in Saaremaa, there is a deadline of 55 days and the whole jam, but before there was 40 in Kihelkonna, 20 in Laimjala, 15 in Leisi, 65 in Mustjala. So the only thing that's gotten better in Blackfoot. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Well, like that... Nice bell, is...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U187	Yeah, time's up, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U188	Yeah, it's morning. So, good night and good night to those who haven't fallen asleep yet! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-27_U189	Yeah, for the sake of the verbatim: however, it's 18.25, Monday night time. I thank all members of the Riigikogu. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00. The sitting is adjourned.
