ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the first Tuesday session of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu. And, as usual, at the beginning of the sitting, it is possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please! I don't see that wish. Before we go to the presence check, I have one message to give you. In fact, today, after the plenary session, there will be a meeting in this Chamber of the establishment of the Mental Health Support Group, convened by Vilja Toomas. So please contact Vilja to join this support group. Now please check your presence!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U2	78 members of the Riigikogu registered.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U3	We will begin the review of today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of draft law 377 on the prevention of unfair commercial practices in the agricultural product and food supply chain initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U4	Ladies and gentlemen, With the adoption of this law today, we will arrive at a new milestone in a long debate that has been in this Chamber, I think, 25 years. This dispute concerns relations on agricultural food production and trade.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U5	Ivar, I'm sorry for a second. Colleagues! [[It's ringing the bell.]] Hello! Mr. Randpere and Mr. Jaanson, would you mind going outside these doors so that you can do some work in this hall? Thank you! Please, Mr. Padre!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U6	It is, in fact, a global, pan-European problem and Estonia's problem that trade is much more concentrated, trade is organised in trade chains, and food production and agriculture are much less concentrated in this respect. There is a conflict here, where trade actually gives a great deal of perspective on agricultural policy. Trade has much stronger opportunities to put pressure on food producers and agriculture, and this will undoubtedly lead to misunderstandings and conflicts. For example, in today's Estonia, no one understands that in a situation where the price of milk is low, where inputs to agriculture are significantly increased, even the energy input, a part of the campaigns are carried out at low milk prices, which is twice as cheap as the water offered at the store. This problem, where there is this conflict, has been long tried to find a solution, also at the level of the Estonian Parliament. I still remember the five or six years ago when we discussed this matter in the Committee on Rural Affairs, how contacts could be better regulated by farmers-food producers, so that there would be no unfair trade, there would be no pressure on agriculture. At the time, the result of this debate was 'good'. In 2018 "Estonia's best practices in the vertical food supply chain" was adopted, which in a relatively general and somehow indicative way agreed what these good practices are, how the merchant behaves, how the farmer behaves. But it was such a general approach. The draft before you today is much more precise, where 16 different aspects will be agreed on what these rules of conduct are. Yes, it can be said that it is also an example of how the free market economy approach does not help and it is necessary to introduce more national regulations in order to improve this situation. Perhaps to illustrate this, we also had, for example, yesterday in the Committee on Rural Affairs, a debate on the budget of the Ministry of Rural Affairs for the following year and 440 million, of which some 380 million are subsidies. Clearly, then, on the one hand, Estonia and the European Union are optimising agriculture, but on the other hand, agriculture is losing money in a significant way as a result of non-negotiation with trade chains. So in this context, this is, in any case, a major step forward, which is currently taking place. This progress is based on a directive agreed at European Union level, the harmonisation of the directive in Estonia. Perhaps during the last time I was a Member of the European Parliament, the European Parliament was very serious about how to promote relations between farmers and trade. So I hope this is a step forward in a long debate. Time will show how this law will actually work in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U7	Do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U8	Yeah, two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U9	Please, two more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U10	The time has shown how this law will work in Estonia. I know that there are trade chains that already apply everything that this law says, and there are certainly trade chains that have room for improvement. [This is] an important and important milestone in shaping a sound and respectful agricultural policy. I would ask you to support this bill. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U11	On behalf of the Fatherland Group, Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U12	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, This bill is certainly a step in the right direction, but this bill should have looked at another side. No one disputes that the producer, or farmer, has been trying to trim as much as it is possible to take wool from this sheep for years, and it is often blamed on the merchant. But there's always one in all the processes who makes the milk from the barn a product sold in the store. Does it also solve this problem if I sell live pigs to Rakvere's Meat Combine or any other production unit that pays money on time or not? In my opinion, this side of this draft is a little bit overlooked, only the payment to the merchant will be discussed. I hope that the Committee on Rural Affairs will take this issue to the table and make sure that all the chains, from producer to seller, are treated equally. Of course, money should move faster in the case of goods that quickly deteriorate, or [they] would be sold quickly. If the milk has been sold within a week, it makes sense that the milk money should also be paid to the producer. But it's not going to be a dairy farm, it's going to be a dairy compound, and it's going to be a dairy farmer. All previous speakers at first and second reading spoke about how good it was for a merchant to pay quickly. But for this money to reach the farmer, or farmer, [there] is still a long way to go. I hope that, in the coming months, a draft will also arrive, in which all stages will be fairly resolved, and the farmer will indeed get the money quickly for his work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U13	The political groups have no further requests to speak. I will close the negotiations and go to the preparation of the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting before you on the draft law on the prevention of unfair commercial practices in the agricultural product and food supply chain initiated by the Government of the Republic 377. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U14	The bill was supported by 90 members of the Riigikogu, against 1. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U15	Our second item today is the second reading of Bill 365 of Amendment to the Law on Restricting Acquisition of Property, initiated by the Government of the Republic. For a presentation, please ask Martin Repinski, member of the Rural Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu Chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U16	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We reached second reading with the draft law amending the law on the restriction of the acquisition of immovable property. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] The amendments concern essentially two things in the law. One is that such a need arose in a crisis situation when the MES Fund began to implement a financial instrument such as the temporary buy-out of lands. In the course of this, there was a problem that too much time would take to coordinate everything, as the Rural Development Foundation would have to ask local authorities for permission to acquire land according to the implementing legislation currently in force, and often it would take quite a lot of time, but in a crisis situation it would be necessary to react more quickly. In this context, it was proposed to amend it, to extend the range of persons who could buy out agricultural land without the permission of the local authorities, and to include, in particular, the Rural Promotion Foundation. This is the first change. The second amendment is purely technical. This is due to Britain's withdrawal from the European Union and to British citizens and legal persons who are subject to rights similar to those currently enjoyed by citizens of the European Union. Perhaps nothing would change for them in this context in connection with their withdrawal from the European Union. This draft law has been discussed twice at the meetings of the Committee on Rural Affairs. One amendment was received from the Socialist Group. The amendment was as follows: The Social Democratic Party Group offered to extend the circle of persons who are not subject to the restriction and extend it to a natural person living on the basis of a long-term resident's residence permit who acquires an immovable property of up to 0,2 hectares. This proposal was not supported by the Committee on Rural Affairs. The Committee on Rural Affairs also asked for an opinion from the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Rural Affairs, and none of the ministries accepted this proposal. At the same time, everyone acknowledged that this law, also in its amended form, if adopted, is not yet ideal and needs to be addressed, that changes still need to be adopted in the future, but that their development will take more time. It was promised that they would come to the Riigikogu with the initiative of the Ministry in the near future. In short, I'm done. I'm waiting for your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U17	And they really are. Begin Aivar Chef. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U18	Good manager! Good waitress! You said it was needed during the crisis. The first part of the question is whether there is still a corona crisis in agriculture at the moment. And the second part of the question is that if the MES is granted rights, then I didn't count it out, maybe my mistake is what the MES can do if the farmer doesn't buy back the land. Can the MES then sell this land to anyone without the municipality having the opportunity to put a hand in it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U19	Yes, thank you for your comment. Indeed, this crisis is still ongoing and that is why we have such a need. It doesn't change the sales side, by the MES. This is about buying out by the MES. Other things will remain valid in the same form. In principle, if MES sells, for example, to Estonian citizens, it is allowed, there is no restriction. If he were to sell to another similar foundation, it would have changed, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U20	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U21	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I ask about this proposal by the Social Democrats, which the Commission did not support and where the Ministry of the Interior is allegedly going to carry out an additional analysis of [the] how dangerous these elderly pensioners are to the Estonian state that lives in the Narva Daatsa. Did you also mention in the Commission how long this analysis would take? You did mention that in the near future. [Is it] a year, two, ten? Because we know that the analyses [under which] these Dachniks are dangerous to the state have been carried out and, indeed, have already been carried out. So when will the next analysis be completed?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U22	Thank you for your question. I have not seen an analysis anywhere that would prove your claim that the owners of the dachas are somehow dangerous to the Estonian state, and here I do not agree with you that this is the case. And actually, I think it really needs to be changed. This needs to be done sensibly so that the security of our country does not really suffer. Of course, no one thinks that our permanent residents who live here for years are dangerous, certainly not. It is simply with this amendment that Pandora's box would be open and other problems could arise.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U23	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U24	Thanks! Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Martin! I, too, am asking about this same amendment by the Social Democratic Party Group. Well, I don't know how many times the same subject has been discussed in the Committee on Rural Affairs, and I don't know how many times the Internal Affairs Department is doing this analysis. In fact, let's be honest: there's just no will. There's no way to solve these people's little problem. We know with great certainty that any legal person can buy this land, but those people living in the Narva dachas can't get their own little piece of land. My question is what the Committee on Rural Affairs will do if this analysis comes to an end. Will you, for example, start this bill again in two or three months' time and come to this hall with it? You know the thing that's in there, pretty much take it up and fix it!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U25	Thank you, Kalvi! I agree. Like I said, there's a problem. And I'm sorry I didn't tell you how long it would take to answer Eduard, because I don't really know that. There's no way I can answer for the ministries. But I agree that the Committee on Rural Affairs could take the initiative, and the initiative could also be shown more by the Riigikogu, members of the Riigikogu, because it depends on each of us and we could do it. At the moment, indeed, the situation is in some sense absurd that there is no restriction. For example, a company owned by an Estonian citizen can acquire as many of these lands as he wants, and afterwards the company can sell them on, no matter what the citizen of the country has. So in that sense, if you have to bypass it, there's no problem at all. I would even say that some sort of businessman in Moscow, for example, say figuratively, is easier to acquire these lands through such a scheme than local residents who have lived and paid taxes for years and have not created any threat to the Republic of Estonia. So, yes, I think it needs to be changed, that's my honest answer. I'm sorry Kalvi didn't care about the answer, because he's already left the room, but hopefully the discussion will continue on this subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U26	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U27	Thank you. And thank you, Martin, for a fair description of this problem. I honestly did not realise that if there was a solution on the table that would solve the same problem that you have now very passionately described why the Commission voted against it. Why are the Central Party ambassadors, who have stood up for the same proposal for years, now voting against this proposal? Why, Martin, are you opposed to solving this problem, which you now very honestly and passionately acknowledge? You say that a solution is urgently needed, these pensioners must not be bullied, but at the same time you will be voting against the Socialist proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U28	Thank you, Eduard! I must say that I did not vote against it, and I am not against it. It's just a fix for you, but, well, it doesn't change what's inside. There is a problem and the coalition has not solved it at the moment. I think it has to be dealt with. Look, one thing is to tell you honestly that if you're sitting in the opposition, you can offer whatever you want and tear out of context some things. The other thing is, when you're in the coalition, you're responsible as a whole and you look at the picture as a whole, you look at the wider picture. And here we are now involved in various other aspects, where it may not be so simple and that is why consensus must be found, an agreement must be found, which would also be supported by the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior. There's got to be a solution that doesn't create any danger, no further problems, but in a sense, the absurd situation would have been solved.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U29	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U30	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! I would like to come back from this area of the garden to the agricultural masses, and with my question, I would touch upon this restricted area that the Estonian state has laid down in relation to infrastructure objects. There are corridors that the state needs to realise the public interest and to which it has also imposed restrictions on the transportation, transfer, etc. Now, in the context of this draft, are those farmers who own agricultural masses in a certain corridor, it is the Via Baltica, it is Rail Baltic, it is an important object for the public interest of another country, whether it is possible or not to deal with these processes there?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U31	Thank you for your question. These are aspects that we have not addressed during the procedure on this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U32	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U33	Thank you, Mr President.! Dear waitress, Well, the subject is old. I know him to quite a bit of detail, too, and the talk about the need for further analysis is actually an excuse to do nothing. Hanno Pevkur was once the Minister of the Interior and, in fact, the outlines of this solution were established already then in order to switch from self-government to object-specific restrictions. That's actually the solution. Indeed, there are certain places where authorities want to apply these restrictions around objects, but there is certainly no need to do so throughout the territory of Alutaguse rural municipality, which is 70 to 80 kilometres from the border. The question is, in fact, why hasn't it been done so far? I know a coalition partner in the government before that blocked it. What happened next, I don't know. The Centre Party has been a third government in a row. Can you explain what's going on? Whose opposition does this thing not move?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U34	Thank you, Evgeny, for the question. I'm about to correct that it hasn't been applied to the entire territory of Alutaguse rural municipality. The law specifically states that this applies, for example, in Alutaguse rural municipality on the territory of the old municipality of Illuka. I agree that this is too much territory, because at times it even extends to some 50 kilometres from the border. I don't think that's justified in any way. Yes, it needs to be changed, corrected in the future, recognised by all parties. But to make such an assessment that who is responsible for this... I said that no one was guilty, the matter was being dealt with, and I believe that some sort of solution will soon come, which will satisfy all parties and which means consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U35	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U36	Thank you. I come back to my question. I have received your reply that this was not discussed in the Commission. Would it still be possible to raise this issue? Indeed, the Estonian state has exercised its right and said in a certain region that transactions with these countries must not be carried out as long as it is clear, for example, about Rail Baltic, I will give a specific example, and if these agricultural parcels, certain properties remain in that region and the owner is in trouble, then in fact, it should not be disproportionately restricted once more because it actually realises the public interest of its assets. Is there any way to explain this once more through the Ministry or through the parties involved?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U37	Thank you for your question. I think it is certainly possible, it can be discussed, it can be clarified and, if necessary, changes made. As far as I know, there is also a representative of the Isamaa Group who could represent these views in the Committee on Rural Affairs. I think that makes sense. And, of course, the Isamaa Group also has the right to initiate drafts and legislative amendments. So, here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U38	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U39	Thank you! Yes, indeed, not all of Alutaguse rural municipality, but Illuka rural municipality is also 50 kilometres from the border, and Toila rural municipality is even more, which is under these national defence restrictions. Once again, the story that needs to be analysed, a complex solution is needed, I have heard for almost 10 years, precisely on this very little subject. Now it is claimed that there is still a need to analyse. Can you say, make a promise to take some sort of moral responsibility towards colleagues and these people that, at least during this Riigikogu, this solution will actually come to this table, which we can debate and discuss whether to support or not? In order not to happen again in the next composition in order to be analysed, an analysis should be carried out.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U40	Thanks for the question, Evgeny. I will say right away that I do not want to take moral responsibility for my colleagues. I don't think that would make much sense. It is good that everyone can take moral responsibility for themselves and keep that responsibility to the end. I say this way, certainly, as I said, it has to be dealt with, and I think it depends on all of us whether it can be solved or not. I think he can. I believe that such a desire exists now, and everyone understands that this problem exists now, is in the air. So I see no reason why the Riigikogu cannot solve this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U41	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U42	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! As an analyst, I know that there is no point in carrying out an analysis if there is not a well-defined starting point. If there is now an analysis on this subject, can you describe what are the main issues to which the analysis seeks an answer, so that there is greater clarity in this Chamber and that this decision can be made? What questions will be answered during the analysis?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U43	Thank you, Riina Sikkut, for the question. I say that we have not formulated them specifically in the Committee on Rural Affairs. That's an honest answer. I don't think it would be wise of me to start formulating them right now. Of course, every analysis needs clearly defined questions and starting tasks. I think that if there is a specific group of members of the Riigikogu dealing with this matter, we have enough competence to formulate these questions correctly and to present them to carry out the necessary analysis, but perhaps to carry out the analysis ourselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U44	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U45	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I simply inform you that three members ago this proposal, which has been proposed by the Social Democrats as an amendment, had already passed two readings in the Riigikogu and was withdrawn before the third reading. Perhaps for nearly ten years today, the authorities will analyse, and I fully agree, Social Democrats, that the next ten years will be analysed. I think it would be fair to say that today's coalition does not agree with this amendment and the issue is exhausted in this respect. There's no point in twirling around and saying that there's going to be another analysis. The authorities aren't analyzing anything. I think the President said very well yesterday: enough of this rubber stamp! The members of the Riigikogu make decisions, not do the authorities, just as the beginning of this bill was that if we fail, the law will be amended. Do you think it is worth discussing this issue, or does the Riigikogu have this decision [being] and [must] be dealt with?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U46	Thank you, Aivar, for the question. I'm telling you this: I don't think I've been spinnin', I don't know where you're taking it. I said directly that there is no consensus to go on with this right now, and I also said that it is up to the Riigikogu to take the initiative, we all have this opportunity. And all the parties that have been represented in this Chamber at different times have also been in the coalition, and it is evident that no one, I do not know whether they could or did not, but at the moment this issue is still unresolved. I'm not hiding that it has to be dealt with, and I don't think some kind of quick and good solution will automatically come from somewhere. Probably the most we hear about these problems, and the voice of people who are in trouble, for example, cannot buy any land or, for example, cannot buy their own housing lot, even have such cases, I know specifically because people do not have Estonian citizenship. And when we hear it the most, we see this problem, we see that it needs to be solved, we have to agree and deal with each other and find a solution. But here it is that the Riigikogu often plays such an important role, especially in matters concerning security and other matters. If we are to make any changes, we must be particularly careful and careful not to create any hidden problems with a single wording. So that's why it needs to be examined properly, and it needs to be reviewed as to what might result. But yes, on this issue, I agree with you that a solution must be found.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U47	No further questions for you. Thank you. I'll open the negotiations and first, please, Eduard Odines. Please, eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U48	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, the very subject we have been debating here in the last few minutes cannot be left unspoken, i.e. the Narva Daatsa. Although this concerns significantly more society and more regions in the border regions of Estonia than only Narva. It is just the Narva Dachas that is such a very imaginary concept, because they are indeed very, very small, and our Socialist proposal only concerns very small plots up to 0.2 hectares. These really are the land plots of summers and gardens. Indeed, our proposal would allow these longer-term residents , who for any reason have the citizenship of a state other than Estonian citizenship, to deal with their plots, their gardening lands, buy, sell, exchange, as Estonian citizens can do. In fact, it has already been said here today that there is nothing to prevent Russian citizens from currently forming arbitrary private limited companies and, through these private limited companies, acquiring very large lands in the regions that we have seen that have also been done and done mass. The acquisition of land with unfamiliar Russian businessmen's money in border regions is not a security problem, but poor Russian citizens, small landowners, pensioners in Narva and Narva-Jõesuu are a security problem. Forgive me, but I don't understand that logic. Indeed, for ten years now, this issue has been discussed in this House in various coalitions, in different configurations. One party currently in government has been one of the biggest advocates and advocates of this issue, but it has not got anywhere. It seems that we will not make it today either, because our proposal was not supported in the Committee on Rural Affairs. At the same time, it would help these people, free them from the spite of the state, give them the opportunity to officially own their land, increase and improve the real estate market in these regions, especially in Ida-Virumaa, and most simply show these people that the Estonian state cares about them and the Estonian state sees no security risk in its longer-term residents. That is the one and only argument that has so far been made why this cannot be done once, at the risk of security. Again, forgive me, I'm not a security expert, but I don't see any logic here either. The Commission representative here spoke of the fact that all ministries are opposed to this, also pointed out the Ministry of Defence. Well, I read here in the Commission documents that the Department of Defense doesn't object at all. The Ministry of Defence is interested in small islands, but the areas we are talking about here are not a matter at all. So what are we talking about? The Ministry of the Interior has already carried out several and several analyses over the years, and now they promise to do more tests. What else is there to analyze? To what extent is Aunt Masha dangerous to the defence capabilities of the Estonian state? How dangerous is Aunt Masha in Narva for Estonia's security? How is Aunt Masha dangerous for the survival of Estonia's independence? I do not understand this logic, ladies and gentlemen. With this bill, we are concerned about the citizens of Great Britain, without knowing what their origin is, where they come from and where they will go after Estonia. On these, we will allow [according to] this bill to buy land. I don't have anything against the English. Let them buy it. But I am opposed to people who have lived here all their lives paying taxes, contributing to the development of the Estonian state, yes, they are not citizens, but they are still our people. We're not worried about them. It is more important for us that British citizens can acquire garden land in Narva, but not Aunt Masha. Indeed, today it has also been said that the restrictions that apply to us are tens and tens of kilometres away from the border, and regardless of whether this Aunt Masha is under Jõhvi with her garden land or on the Narva-Jõesuu border, she will both be treated as a security risk to the Republic of Estonia. We very much hope that the commitments made by the representative of the Committee on Rural Affairs who has spoken here will be taken seriously, that the issue will be dealt with, that it will also get somewhere, and that we will soon be able to solve this problem and put an end to this national spite. Let us keep our people safe! Let us also keep our people in border regions, regardless of what [state] citizens they are, so that they can easily move their property up to 0.2 hectares. It's not a security risk. Believe me! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U49	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U50	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It's embarrassing, I have to say, every other time I come here, I wasn't gonna come here, but I listened, and what you're gonna do, you have to come and talk. You know, we got a hell of a job, fantastic. And when asked if boring isn't boring. Something happens every day that you don't even believe in the eyes. I see that the text is very familiar to me; this text is familiar to me for 20 years: the limitation provided for in subsection 1 of this section does not apply to a natural person living in Estonia on the basis of a long-term resident's residence permit, Tõn-tõn-tõn, if he has less than 0.2 hectares [land]. I wrote it myself. I wrote and prepared it myself, it was somewhere in the beginning of the century, and I inspired it five times. I lived on the Rural Affairs Committee, I could have gotten a registration there. And all in order to finally read under his text 'The Group of the Social Democratic Party'. I would like to recall what and how it has been, how I stood here on the remote and talked about the acquisition of Estonian citizenship, the problems of the elderly on the exams, etc., and what was said to me at the time by Lauristin and Hänni. Well, there wasn't yet a Social Democratic Party, there were moderates, well that's the same thing. Or what I was told when in 2002 I spoke about the Russian school and the need to change our approach to the problem of teaching the Estonian language. Then it turns out that afterwards comes and starts talking about the principles of someone who has spoken directly the opposite a few years ago. Our lives are very interesting. You watch people change. Not every book, not every book, you don't see how a hero survives all these things. Aunt Masha, whom the Estonian state should care about. Eduard, you're younger, right? I can tell you "young colleague." Learn that the Estonian state does not care about Aunt Masha! I understood that 20 years ago. The Estonian state doesn't give a shit, it spits at his problems. And people, Aunt Masha, have understood that a long time ago. And here's the suggestion, people have already learned how to get past this restriction. This is not a big problem for them. The last time I met a larger organization with a total of 37 gardening cooperatives, and they could have a couple of thousands of land, such a smaller dacha. Last November, I also asked about this issue. No one expects the country to meet them. This does not happen in the educational sphere; it does not happen in the [for] problems that are important to these people. Why does this have to happen in this sphere? People are used to it. They already know how to sell, how to buy, how to own, and they don't expect anything good from here. Why else wouldn't I have done this? Security risk. Once, yeah, he practically went to third reading. Everyone saw how the Ministry of Defence and the Committee on Rural Affairs were made clear... Can I have a few more minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U51	Please, two more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U52	... and practically it's like the issue is solved. And maybe somewhere, I don't know where, but probably somewhere where none of us would want to be invited, thought it wasn't supposed to be. A man has eight centuries, and this eight centuries holds two tanks, that's all. And that's the security risk. So, yes, I understand that the length of a minute in this hall depends on which side of the toilet you're on. This means that the opinion will change depending on whether you are in the coalition or in the opposition. I'm not saying that about me, my opinion is always clear. Only the experience of life tells you what it takes to waste your life and your life and where it's pointless. I've tried to do it four or five times, there's always some hairy black hand, who knows where he comes from, which turns everything upside down. But I tell you, to speculate on people's problems and to play with them, it is somehow immoral. In fact, do it in this hall, where we can see very well what you do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U53	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U54	Good afternoon. Here's a hairy black hand you can see from a previous speaker. I'm the guy who handled these same Aunt Masha and Dacha as the border guard district chief. If we're saying there's no risk, of course we don't put a tank on that little piece of land. You don't put half a tank, you can't even get near it. But it's a question of attitude, including the attitude of the people who have their own land. During this 30-year period, everyone has had the opportunity to become an Estonian citizen, learn Estonian and go through all other processes. Why is it always the idea that the Estonian state must meet everyone at all times? Why don't we think that the Estonian state could also be met, so that the principles of our country, which we want to love, could also be respected? It is clear that there are no major security risks, but it is certain that we have competent bodies who are very good at analyzing these things and risks and know that even the same small cloths are ideal places for smuggling. If there is no normal respect and attitude towards the country, then the whole thing will just be laughed at and dealt with exactly the way it is done. Yes, people have really thought about how to relocate and use and sell and buy and exchange them. But this is also exactly the passing of what we are planning, which the Riigikogu has been thinking and analysing for 30 years. Of course, of course, this issue must be put in the way a good colleague says that a task must be set up first, then an analysis must begin. But the task was actually set up when I was the district chief. And there's no good solution. So let us not always blame the country for these problems, but people themselves must also seek solutions. Thank you, and the strength for you! We're tolerant to ourselves and to the people who live there. We try to say, use their abilities and keep them as good, conscientious and loyal subjects of the Estonian state. But first of all, there's a fortress at the border, so there won't be a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U55	Eduard Odines, I think this is the wish of the rejoinder, I understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U56	Yes, thank you, Mr President. As my identity and views have been mentioned, I cannot fail to react in order to categorically reject accusations of speculation or speculation, that is certainly not the aim. The aim is to solve the problem that the people of Estonia have in certain regions and in certain matters for decades, and that is the care that the Estonian state must show. I do not agree, as some colleagues here say, that he is not giving up and dealing with this problem, he is not dealing with this problem. I want to address this problem and I want to solve it. If my colleague has been on the remote four or five times, then I agree to go four, five and six times. I feel very strongly in our group today about this issue, about the desire to solve the problem, and we will continue to deal with it and look for consensus, as we have been advised, for this solution. If some ambassadors do not want to deal with this anymore, there are other ambassadors who deal with it and show that the Estonian state does not spit on people's problems, as has been mentioned here, but still cares about people and wants to solve the problem. Just because there are many other problems that the state is not dealing with does not mean that we do not have to solve this one problem. The problem is indeed very small and it can be solved very easily, this solution exists and on paper. That is why the Group of the Social Democratic Party has proposed that the draft be suspended so that it can move forward with this idea again.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U57	Mikhail Stalnukhin, do you have a request for a rejoinder? Please! Two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U58	Thank you very much. I think I overdid it, yeah. I take back my claim on speculation, if I may say so. It can be described differently. Well, for example, taking advantage of a good chance in the political interest. Let's keep it that way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U59	Now we've had all the negotiations, I'm closing the negotiations. Let us examine the amendments that have come to this draft. There is exactly one of them, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the lead committee has failed to take this into account. Due to § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, this proposal is not voted in the large hall. The commission has proposed that the second reading of the draft be stopped, but the Group of the Social Democratic Party has proposed to suspend the draft 365 at second reading. This Socialist proposal needs to be voted through. Honourable Riigikogu, I would like to vote before you on the Social Democratic Party Group's proposal to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the law on the restriction of the acquisition of immovable property initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U60	The proposal was supported by 9 votes against and 70 against; the proposal was not supported. Thus, the second reading of the Bill 365 of Amendment to the Law on Restrictive Acquisition of Real Estate, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U61	We will proceed to today's third item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision on the appointment of a member of the Joint Parliamentary Scrutiny Working Group controlling the activities of the European Union Agency for Law Enforcement Cooperation, presented by the Legal Affairs Committee. Please report to Uno Kaskpeid, member of the Legal Affairs Committee!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U62	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this issue on 10 June, minutes 101 of the meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs. The third item was the preparation for the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the appointment of a member of the Joint Parliamentary Audit Group controlling the activities of the European Union Agency for Law Enforcement Cooperation, initiated by the Legal Affairs Committee. Due to the suspension of the mandate of a member of the working group Kalle Laanet's Riigikogu pursuant to § 5 of the Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu as a member of the Government of the Republic, the Legal Affairs Committee has proposed to appoint Urve Tiidus, a member of the Riigikogu as a member of the working group instead of Kalle Laanet. At the meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs, it was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda and that a final vote be taken today on the consensus; that a consensus be appointed as rapporteur; that the first reading be brought to an end. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U63	There are no questions for you. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U64	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U65	I'm opening negotiations. There's no wish for words. The proposal of the commission is to conclude the first reading of draft 405, and we have also completed it. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 28 September.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U66	The fourth item is the first reading of the draft Penal Code Amendment Act 373 initiated by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. For a presentation, please contact Kalle Grünthali, member of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U67	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good day, good people, who are watching us here via the web, and some of whom have gathered here before the Riigikogu to express their minds probably in favour of this bill! Before I go to the details of this bill, I would like to make a metaphorical observation. On August 20, on the day of the restoration of independence of our Republic of Estonia, a festive flagging took place in the tower of Toompea. I don't know if anyone noticed or noticed that as soon as the Estonian anthem began to play and the flag rose, it started to rain gently. When it went by a little while and the remote went to speak Mr. Jüri Ratas, the rain was getting stronger. And when Kaja Kallas got the microphone, there was a plain rainstorm. Essentially, the sky signaled the madness of our situation here in the Republic of Estonia today in relation to increasing discrimination, where the government issues different orders and regulations without a mandate. The law doesn't provide for this, but some kind of COVID passport has been established. What's he from, where he's taken, what he looks like, nobody knows. Businesses have been given supervision under the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases, although this should actually be a police matter. Companies are asking for COVID's passport and are in fact violating the data protection law. On Tallinn's Old Town Days, we see a picture of people separated by fences, vaccinated on one side, not on the other. And, of course, such simple things as the employer's right to dismiss unvaccinated workers and even to deprive them of the bonus. There is discrimination in hospitals, and you must not eat or smoke together. They don't talk to hospitals about people who haven't been vaccinated. Professionals, both medical and police and military, will be dismissed if they do not allow vaccination. There's a campaign to vaccinate children. No one knows if these kids will have offspring after that. There is also a campaign to vaccinate pregnant women. This list could be continued. Against the background of all this madness, the Estonian Conservative People's Party has submitted a draft law amending the Penal Code, which amends and formulates § 138 (1) as follows. "For carrying out a medical or scientific study with a person who had not given his or her consent on a voluntary basis or who had not been informed of the significant risks associated with the investigation before consent was given, the sentence shall be punishable by imprisonment between eight and twenty years of age or life. "And the second paragraph is § 1371, "Sund vaccination" or (1) "For placing a person in a situation where, for a medical purpose, he is forced to vaccinate by either violence, fraud, threat of harm, secondary dependence, exploitation of office or termination of employment, the sentence shall be punishable by imprisonment between three and twelve years." In addition, we are supplementing Paragraph 88 (1) which is amended and worded as follows: "In addition to its immediate perpetrator, a representative of the State or a military commander who has ordered the commission of a crime or whose consent the offence has been committed or who has not prevented the commission of the offence, although it has been in his power, or who, being aware of the commission of the offence by persons subject to him, does not file a report of the offence. " And there is, of course, the coercion of a legal person. In defending this draft in the Committee on Legal Affairs, I was online with a highly respected lifelong epidemiologist, Antonina Järvis, who also provided explanations on this change. There weren't really any big questions, everyone just listened quietly. In the case of amendments, I shall first rely on the Constitution, which clearly states that participation in medical trials must be voluntary. Voluntary consent means that consent is given without any influence, manipulation or lying, in accordance with the principle of informed consent laid down in Section 766 of the Law of Obligations Act, according to which the patient consents only after receiving comprehensive information. However, this principle is consistently violated in practice and, in particular, much important information about vaccines is not mentioned. Moreover, the information given to the patient is usually oversimplified. All they say is that the vaccine is good and necessary, and no further information is shared. A patient's decision based on such information cannot be considered either conscious or voluntary. Different leverage and coercive instruments are also used, which can be regarded as a direct breach of the Constitution. The rights of patients need to be better protected, and in the light of the current daily practice of breach of physical integrity, it is important to bring into the Penal Code a forced vaccination, which is to place a person in a situation where he is forced to vaccinate himself for a medical purpose, whether by violence, fraud, harm, threats, secondary dependence, exploitation of office or termination of employment. The fact that forced vaccination can provide a solution for the protection of public health in an epidemic situation is also very specific. However, according to Antonina Järviste, the basic truth of vaccination is that vaccination should not be carried out during an epidemic, as vaccination at that time creates new and more virulent strains of the disease. If the original strain subsides at one point, vaccination will result in more and more strains. By the way, according to Antonina Järvist, it's taught to first-year students in Vaccinology. There can therefore not be any situation in which a compulsory vaccination could be justified. There are many methods and ways to protect human health. The use of medicines and vaccines is only one way to go. There are other options available to deal with the disease, and people need to be able to choose from among the solutions they use. By now going to a slightly more legal text, I am currently specifically dealing with medical tests without the consent of a person, the right to self-determination of a person is protected by law. The purpose of this provision is to ensure that medical or scientific research is carried out only with notified consent. This crime consists of carrying out a medical or scientific study with a person who has not consented to it or who has not been informed of the risks associated with it. The consent is set out in Chapter 5 of the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine and in Chapter 5 of the Act on Medicinal Products for the Procedure for the Clinical Trials of Medicinal Products. Of course, the provisions of the Additional Protocol to the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedical Research and the more important requirements for consent should also be taken into account. By the way, the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine requires that a person be informed of the purpose and nature of the intervention, as well as its possible consequences and risks, as well as the rights and safeguards of the subject before consent is given. If the person is insured within the meaning of the Health Insurance Act, the damage caused to his or her health shall also be explained and reimbursed in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Health Insurance Act. And if, before consent is given, the person has not been informed of the significant risks posed by the studies, the consent procedure has been uniformly violated. So that I don't remain naked, I'll say that the draft was prepared for spring, when the AstraZeneca vaccine was used in greater use. I'm going to unravel the Summary of Product Characteristics page for AstraZeneca. First of all, it states very clearly that this medicinal product will be subject to additional monitoring, which will allow for the rapid identification of new safety information. What do they say about children? The safety and efficacy of COVID-19 in children and adolescents under 18 years of age have not yet been established. No data are available. Duration and level of protection. The duration of protection provided by the vaccine is unknown as appropriate clinical trials are ongoing. Restrictions on the efficacy of the vaccine. The onset of protection is approximately three weeks after the first dose of COVID-19 [astraZeneca vaccine]. Full protection may not occur for up to 15 days after the second dose. As with other vaccines, as with COVID-19 vaccine AstraZeneca may not protect all people who are vaccinated. It is also said that the available data from clinical trials do not allow an assessment of the efficacy of the vaccine in individuals over 55 years of age. Interactions with other medicinal products. No interaction studies have been performed. The concomitant administration of AstraZeneca vaccines with other vaccines has not been studied or studied. The same leaflet asks for possible side effects to be reported, i.e. it would be important to know whether the benefit-risk balance will continue to be assessed after the product has been authorised. AstraZeneca has received conditional approval. This means that further evidence of the properties of this medicinal product is awaited. The European Medicines Agency will review any new information on this medicinal product at least every year and this SPC will be updated as necessary. Pregnancy is said to have limited experience in pregnant women as studies in animals have not yet been completed. It is not known whether COVID-19 is excreted in human milk. It is not yet known how long this protection will last in people over the age of 55, but despite this, our Committee on Immunoprophylaxis has recommended the use of AstraZeneca vaccine to vaccinate people over the age of 60. We know what this has led to, it has led to the disappearance of older people from this world. Like all medicines, this vaccine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. And any side effects should be discussed with your doctor or nurse. The question is that the adverse reactions of these medicinal products are also covered by the deadlines for the submission of interim reports on this medicinal product. The vaccine and the medicine are actually under the common denominator. By the way, this does not only apply to AstraZeneca because Pfizer/BioNTech, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson vaccines are also authorised on the market and are again in a similar context, i.e. they are on a temporary marketing authorisation. It is interesting, however, that there have been agreements between the European Commission and vaccine producers on the extent to which these agreements are available. This is very, very strange because the information on contracts is partly confidential. I have a Pfizer contract here, 120 pages. I have not been able to prove all of this yet, but the most interesting revelation is that it excludes these users from all claims against the vaccine manufacturer and they remain in the hands of these people. Then I've collected a lot, let's say, of the kind of material where I get complaints about what the side effects are. And these people have already risen to speak openly in the microphone. For example, there is a young woman around 20 who was eight weeks pregnant. He was given a vaccine shot, and then he complained about a constant headache, and no medicine worked. But unfortunately, on the advice of a doctor, he still took another injection, which caused him to vomit very strongly. A few days ago, he found out he was pregnant, and today it turned out that little fetus was dead. A strong young woman who was given the right and the opportunity to become a mother. There are more examples, and maybe I'll introduce them when you start asking questions. As far as compulsory vaccination is concerned, what is currently taking place is absolutely contrary to the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine. In fact, vaccination testing is currently under the vaccination label. Studies and tests shall be carried out under the vaccination label. The pressure on people to vaccinate is simply a lack of knowledge of pressurers, rather a belief and an undisputed trust in the decisions of an institution. The arguments put forward by the pressurers are psychological. Okay, you're not afraid of getting sick, but you're putting the medical system under threat to family members, workmates, etc. Someone's gotta do your job, you can't be involved in creating herd immunity, and so on. If that doesn't help, then the following operational threats, dismissal, transfer to a low-paid job, loss of company benefits, etc. More drastic examples are, of course, now mentioned in the Defence Forces, where General Herem has issued his order on 31.08 that the employment relationship with those who do not allow themselves to be vaccinated be terminated. Even the fact that, as far as the Defence Forces are concerned, my good colleague, Leo Kunnas, who has undoubtedly left after Johannes Kert, one of the most competent people in the army, has said that only one soldier and one single soldier of the Allied forces have been admitted to the hospital with the COVID. Perhaps this data is not complete, but there is no significant concern about it. However, young men who have been invited to serve in military service have been put forward the fact that they too must give the injection. No one has studied or is now learning whether these young men will ever have children or not. The question now is this: I dare say that, in this case, General Herem's behaviour has the characteristics of a crime, because under the sign of the disease, the members of the defence forces are reduced, even though they have trained specialists, and the leadership of the Defence League is also reduced. However, this is already an action aimed at preventing the state from standing still. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U68	Now there are questions. Reuben Kaalep begins.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U69	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! Forced vaccination is clearly a violation of fundamental rights, as it interferes directly with a person's right to decide on his or her body and health. The implementation of such measures outside martial law, peacetime, in normal circumstances, should be unacceptable, therefore it is very appropriate and necessary for the draft. Now I ask what would be the most brutal examples of forced vaccinations in the last year, where people are under pressure, forced to participate in this so-called experiment, which would show very clearly that this bill is needed?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U70	Thank you. I've already given an example. I will add to this the case of Tatiana Fitania, filmed here last week in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. His son went to vaccinate, five minutes later his heart stopped, he was resuscitated, and he was taken away by ambulance. After he was restored to life, he was simply allowed to go home. At home, he became more cramped. Initially, he was diagnosed by a doctor with epilepsy, but since he was an absolutely healthy person, this diagnosis was later withdrawn. By the way, in the same case, his digital history is also specifically mentioned, at least according to Tatiana, that there are vaccine lesions. Another person who's willing to explain himself in front of the camera. There is a case where the child was given the first injection on board the ship because the mother works in Finland. Of course, without any information, as well as an analogous shock, hormonal therapy was used. And now, good Reuben, listen, after that the second injection was also given, the reactions were suppressed with hormones and the second injection was later given in the hospital. Although doctors know that the manufacturer says that a second injection should not be given if the first has had such a reaction. But the baby had it done. Why? Because he cannot participate in school studies or various events without a medical decision, which is proof of a vaccine or a COVID, and which is clearly a compulsory decision. Here's another example. The man wrote that he was ready to publish, to tell his story again in front of the cameras. He has a reason why the post-corona vaccine was dead. He's got all the papers on it. In the spring of the University of Tartu Hospital, a blood sample was taken from her mother that she had no cancer. But after the second vaccination, the mother died, three days later. These things aren't so innocent. The question is, based on the prior material that I introduced to you, I do not believe that anyone in this hall or somewhere on TV screens might suspect that medical trials are currently being conducted with people only under the vaccination label. And the question is also that the current COVID vaccine has come to the market in a hurry, its safety studies have not yet been completed, they will not be completed until after two years. The vaccine has been on the market for only a few months. It is also clear to a non-medically educated person that there is much that we do not yet know about vaccination with such a vaccine. And there's no way you can use coercion to impose such a product. It must be a free choice for a person to take risks. For example, it was only a few years ago that Pandemrix, a swine flu vaccine, caused narcolepsy and turned a number of young people into a lifetime invalid. It is never guaranteed that we know everything about a medical procedure or medicine. Science and medicine are constantly changing, and it can never be a coercion. Going back, I touched the last few cases, but there's still hundreds in this range. But what I personally remember most is, by the way, the names of these people I have all known, these are not anonymous letters, is what one rescue worker wrote. And unlike the others, he didn't have any side effects because of AstraZeneca. Others had a fever in the ceiling, some even 40 degrees. But his symptoms began some time later with a terrible headache and some strange stomach aches and cramps in his legs and hands. From now on, he was only in bed, terrible tiredness, cold sweat, constantly running chills, changing shirts every three hours. I didn't want anything to eat, though he forced himself, everyone wanted to come out. Slowly the appetite returned, but the vibe was completely zero. And since he lives on the fifth floor, getting up was quite a job. Okay. And the most terrible thing was when he wrote the end of the supplemental letter as follows: I forgot that on February 16 all the skin came loose and rashes arose. After washing, half the face remained in the towel. I say I can read them here infinitely. The woman volunteered to vaccinate on a telephone call from the family doctor's office. The reason was that vaccination is necessary and works well. Before that, physical health was perfectly healthy, only in the hands of joint pain. Two weeks after that, he collapsed. The ambulance took Pärnu to the hospital, and the medics had said that the vaccine would result in a clot, a stroke, or something like that. There's a lot of them. There are so many of them that it would take me, say, an hour to read these stories. There's a story about a father-in-law who got the shot and stopped later. He developed hyperactivity, meaningless chatter. Eventually, he was transferred to Rakvere EMO and was transported to Tallinn psychiatric hospital in the evening. That's the kind of thing. But I guess there's a lot of other stories. We know what it's like right now when we were talking about coercive vaccination. The CEO of Olerex AS has sent out notices to people about the imposition of the incentive fee. Arrangements for the remuneration of the staff of the service station. On the basis of point 8, as from 1 October, if the worker has not been vaccinated against COVID, I shall set the incentive fee for detention at EUR 50 per month. The fee shall not be applied if the worker has been vaccinated, vaccination has begun and a single injection has been given. The employer has the right to check on the basis of the information right entered and the employee must provide a COVID certificate. In the case of false information, a written warning shall be given to the staff member, which shall result in the payment of any additional charges earned during the month of reckoning and shall give him the right to cancel the contract of employment. If this isn't a forced vaccination, I'm asking you, what is this? We remember that a while ago there was a very big campaign where they were invited to vaccinate children. That's a crime, according to Antonina Lakes. But I'll be there later. Why do you need to vaccinate? For this purpose, even the lotteries that were publicly announced were used, the main prize was 30 iPads, 10 gift cards from Maxima Euros, 2000 sports opportunities in swimming pools, Russian theatre gift tickets, Rademar gift cards of 10 euros, Kalev candies for all participants. The "Actual Camera" ran through the ice cream offer when you took the shot. Obviously, there is no news, and it is well known that some institutions have closed their doors to all visitors who have not had a history, vaccinated or equivalent to those who have been vaccinated, so they must take the test. In the spring, the regional hospital announced that it had taken a decision that only students who have vaccinated themselves would be accepted since 1 July. Until 1 July, we accept students who have taken one dose of vaccine. Writes a concerned mother from Kivi-Vigala: "We have a family doctor who accepts once a week. That's all we have. But the doctor won't answer until I have a COVID test. " Last week in Lasnamägi, I met local residents. There was a nana, I presume, already 80 years old, who needs to go to certain procedures. The doctor told him you can't until you've been vaccinated. If these are not compulsory vaccinations, then I ask the good Riigikogu, which is then. I hope I have answered this question thoroughly.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U71	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that the Rules of Procedure do not limit the time of the respondent, but by looking at our number of questions, there is perhaps hope that you can concentrate a little on both questions and answers. The time for questions is limited to a minute, the time for answers is not. But maybe the answer will take into account when he sees on his screen that we have more than ten questions right now. If we keep at this rate, we'll get to Madis Milling, no more. Here you go, Tarmo Kruusimäe!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U72	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! First, of course, I will turn to the vice-chairman: on such important issues, we do not need to do anything over our feet, quickly, bitterly. But now to the question. It's all about interpretation. Several times you asked me if this wasn't a forced vaccination, which is what it is. I wanted an answer, too. I've browsed crisis.ee, I've also looked at government press releases or [the materials that are being distributed], and I've also looked through this white paper, but there's not a word of forced vaccination there. However, I have heard that the heads of government have said that we do not have a compulsory vaccination. Is there any such statement in writing, in the so-called White Paper or crisis.ee page, that there will be no compulsory vaccination in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U73	I may, let's say, in writing, I owe you that answer, but I've been asking in this Chamber, and I think you yourself have asked if we have a forced vaccination. On top of that, Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, as well as the Minister for Social Affairs and Health, in various occupations, when he has been there, has replied that, no, we do not have a compulsory vaccination, it is entirely voluntary. Well, I might make a very bad example. A man is hung by a rope on a ceiling, under his feet a stool, and a bottle of water has been placed away from him. One minute, this person wants to drink. How's he gonna get that drink? Only if he steps off that stool. Maybe then he'll get the bottle, but maybe he won't. He'll end up hanged. In fact, the same is true for those employers who propose the fact: either you vaccinate or you leave. That's exactly what the Defence Forces are saying right now, that if you don't vaccinate, you have to leave. But this is actually a forced vaccination, because we all want to get the material means of life through the working environment. But what is very bad about these cases, and, I would say, really criminal, is that we don't have a reliable vaccine, we have experimental vaccines. I hope I've been able to answer that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U74	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U75	Thank you. I would first like to remind the good vice-chairman that the answer is as long as and exactly as he wants. Up there from the remote, even if the subject doesn't like it, it's not nice to make such an injunction. But to the question. Good waitress, you've already touched on this subject a little bit, but I'm still gonna go over it. The Ministry of Social Affairs and the Health Insurance Fund used to advertise in the media some time ago, offering children and young people the chance to win the iPhone after the vaccination. Well, you read other ads, too. The subsequent Agency's specific position was that the vaccine is a medicinal product, which is legally on the same stick as the prescription medicine, and that no one should be tilted to the administration of the medicinal product by raffling or offering any benefits. Why is the Ministry of Social Affairs breaking the law and who should be responsible for it? Are the so-called freedoms allowed through vaccination, including the freedom to work, not also biased? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] And isn't that a sneaky, compulsive vaccination?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U76	The question was whether the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Health Board broke the law. My answer to that is, yes, rich. Because the ads described here, where people are invited to vaccinate and they say that you get certain benefits, and also the ads that were on the television screen some time ago, where they said they had to go and have to go to vaccinate, are actually against the pharmaceutical law. I don't remember this section by heart, but somewhere around the '80s, maybe 88, or somewhere in the area, it says it's forbidden to advertise drugs. If there is advertising, there must be a note to that effect. By the way, by definition, the vaccine also comes under the common name "medicine," which is the medicine. It must be noted that it is an advertising of medicinal products. This requirement has been severely violated throughout this COVID pandemic when the vaccines came. I very much congratulate Mr Vooglaid, who made an inquiry to the Agency and examined why such violations were taking place. The answer was, yes, I think there has been, but from now on, we will see that such a thing does not happen again. In essence, no sanctions have been imposed because of the infringement of advertising on medicinal products; this has simply been left to nothing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U77	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U78	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Fighters heading for a military foreign mission will receive a number of vaccines, starting with the tetanus vaccine, ending with diphtheria and everything that gets caught in it. The presence of required vaccinations is one of the prerequisites for access to an external mission. In case your bill becomes a law, we'll have a situation where the Defence Forces will have to start allowing a foreign mission even without any vaccines. This, in turn, creates a situation where, for example, when a critical number of unvaccinated combatants become ill on a foreign mission, the unit simply becomes incapable of fighting. But my question. If an unvaccinated combatant on a foreign mission becomes seriously ill or dies worse, who should pay the cost of his treatment or, worse, the cost of transporting the body to Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U79	I'm ready to answer that question, but I still have to come to the part of your explanation. I agree with the fact that soldiers who go on a foreign mission must be vaccinated. Just as you described here that malaria, I don't know, against diphtheria or anything. I would point out that this bill concerns a very narrow and firm contingent. I never want to say that the vaccines for the diseases you described are contraindicated in these people because they have undergone long-term tests and have been tested for a very long time, they are reliable. If you noticed, when I introduced the particular page of AstraZeneca, I told you it was an experimental vaccine. I mean, not the bill, but what I'm talking about here on the remote. I cannot agree with what you claim to be harmful. Some are certainly useful, but at this point, the point is that the COVID vaccine is still in the study phase and there is no justification for any pressure on its use. And for the following reason. When you asked who will pay these medical costs, I will ask who will pay the funeral costs and the costs of health problems and disorders for those people who have left or have suffered health damage as a result of these medical tests. In order to find a 'compromise', Mrs Milling, I think that the part concerning the use of controlled vaccines is well-founded and fair. However, this bill is constitutionally aimed at medical and scientific tests without the consent of a person. The vaccine we're talking about right now, AstraZeneca, is still in the experimental phase.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U80	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U81	Dear waitress, I would like you to have information on the position of the Chancellor of Justice on these matters. The function of the Chancellor of Justice is to protect fundamental rights in the country. He is very keen on the opportunities for Nigerian homosexuals to come to Estonia, for example, but how seriously has he addressed this really large-scale issue of discrimination?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U82	Perhaps the Chancellor of Justice himself will give a more precise answer to this question. Today, of course, the Chancellor of Justice is also dealing with the same subject in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. But I'm making such a vision or an opinion about it right now. As you have also spoken here about democracy and the restriction of human rights, I think this is the moment, given all the various discriminations and restrictions where fundamental rights of people no longer apply. And as was said yesterday in this Chamber, the Riigikogu has become the rubber stamp of the Government of the Republic, which can only make minor changes. Let me remind you that I asked Kaja Kallas here when the second paragraph of § 54 of the Constitution will apply. Perhaps the duty of an Estonian citizen is to be loyal to the constitutional order and to defend Estonia's independence, and the second paragraph says that if no other means are available, every Estonian citizen has the right to express his/her own-initiative resistance to the violent change of constitutional order. Kaja Kallas partially answered that question. He said that once the fundamental rights have disappeared, there will be violations when the Riigikogu and local governments can no longer be democratically elected. But he didn't specify a very important point. In fact, the Constitution's comments provide the answer to the fact that a constitutional order can also be considered to be violated if a constitutional institution or its holder, in this case the government, for a long time comprehensively and systematically exceeds its powers, fails to fulfil its obligations or prevents the other institutions from carrying out their task. This is now the situation that Kaja Kallas did not describe. And when we look back in history, in fact, the same restriction on human rights, restrictions on free movement, pressure on people to vaccinate, people to compartmentalize and, let's say, putting fences on police duties on employers, these are all signs that have been going on for a long time. The idea of constitutional order, in which case in my opinion an Estonian citizen has the right to object to the violent change of constitutional order, is that the concept of constitutional order also includes the functioning of the state institutions and the recognition of fundamental rights and human dignity. Constitutional order cannot, in fact, be assimilated to state authority. If state bodies act in violation of the constitutional norms and values, the Estonian citizen cannot be forced to be loyal to such activities on the basis of this provision. What Is Loyalty? It is an estimated category, but it does not mean unconditionally accepting the objectives, tasks and methodology of the State and its values. This same paragraph 2 states nicely that fundamental rights indicate resistance to the violent change of constitutional order to the fundamental right of an Estonian citizen. That's my assessment of this thing. As far as the Chancellor of Justice is concerned, I still find it somewhat incomprehensible that, in all this great crisis, he has never spoken on this subject, pointing to the fact that it is not part of his tasks. In a way, he might even be right. Still, our opinion articles, our opinions and other things can still be given by our basic Chancellor of Justice.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U83	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U84	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I would still like to clarify the wording or definition of a compulsory vaccination. About a year ago here in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, Prime Minister Kaja Kallas and Minister of Labour and Health Tanel Kiik have claimed that we do not have and will not have a compulsory vaccination. Similarly, the Scientific Council and various bodies and organisations have continued to say that there is no and will not be a compulsory vaccination. However, we now have a situation where people are being put in front of the fact that they either vaccinate themselves against the COVID or they can't do any job assignments, can't go to the Defence Forces, can't get medical treatment, can't have surgery, like in a hospital, etc. It is clear that people are addicted to vaccination, or coercion. And now to clarify what it is, I'm asking. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] If a person is put in a position where to receive treatment, income, or the right to participate in teaching, does it only appear to be a voluntary decision-making power, or is it a coercion?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U85	Thank you. In fact, I don't know, I don't think there can be any doubt here that this is definitely a forced vaccination of a person in a situation where he is forced to be vaccinated for a medical purpose. There can be no other doubt. Just this sentence, as Tanel Kiik replied with this draft, that we simply do not have a forced vaccination, is about the same sentence as a thief would say to the police that we do not actually have a theft at all. I think these two sentences can be placed between equal marks. The thief also says it's a loan of property for a moment, then I'll return it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U86	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U87	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Good waitress! We've had a lot of talk here about the nature of the coercive vaccination. And that is very right, this debate, because we do not have a better place than we do in this remote control for all the people and the country, to finally say what is a forced vaccination in a situation where some say there is no forced vaccination, and others say there is. Well, the fact is, indeed, directing someone, as has been said here, to direct someone to a particular situation, whether physical or mental, is a coercion. The linguists have also said that coercive is synonymous with "command." And here comes the same thing that Herem does when Herem gives the order, it's a coercion, nothing else. And here's the question. How do you feel about a situation where the government and the Prime Minister explain that there is no coercion, there is no coercive vaccination, but at the same time some institutions, companies or certain authorities are implementing the coercion, that is, we lack law or law?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U88	I think we also have shortcomings in the law, because we would not have tabled this draft otherwise. Because there is, in fact, a law that speaks in a slightly different wording than we have proposed, that is, § 138, illegal human research. And when I was defending the bill in the Committee on Legal Affairs, I asked the Ministry of Justice how many cases this rule was applied to punish a person. Whether you believe it or not, his answer was that only once, I think it was 2007 or something. This means that, in this case, no illegal human research has been carried out in Estonia. But if we compare this bill now, where we specifically mention a constitutional rule that prohibits medical and scientific tests without the consent of a human being, then that is what is necessary. That's what it takes to make sure that no one, some pharmaceutical company anywhere far away in Europe, doesn't get here, I don't know the benefits of human experimentation. We have an agreement between the European Commission and Pfizer. But no one has yet shown us the conditions under which Estonia has concluded this agreement with the European Commission. Somehow they keep it top secret. But these are all our lives, this is our health. And that's what the current government keeps secret. I think there's a deficit in the law. The second question, of course, that you touched on, good Paul, is that we actually come to the issue of the agreement between the WHO and Jüri Ratas, the annexes of which are all classified. The EKRE Group has submitted inquiries to the EKRE Group in order to obtain the additional protocols or additional agreements identifying those who cooperate on the vaccination passport, etc., in order to find out what funding is, where the money comes from and what the plan of work is. I think that the answer would then be to this question, which is why these institutions, such as the Commander of the Defence Forces and, of course, I cannot fail to mention, also that of the Minister of Defence, Kalle Laane, which is applying, I shall say frankly, a compulsory vaccination, both for conscripts and for active servants. I hope I've been able to answer that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U89	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U90	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, In the spring of this year, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe held a debate on human rights issues. At the time, the European Commission's decision to introduce the so-called 'corona pass' and absolutely everyone, one hundred percent of the ambassadors were concerned about the human rights situation, apartheid, which can be seen when showing the passport, which is not. At the time, there was not even the worst idea of a forced vaccination. But I would ask you whether these so-called COVID passports, all kinds of restrictions and segregation have any legal basis within the meaning of Estonian law. Do they, in any way, rely on our constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U91	My point is that the vaccine passports you have referred to do not rely on any higher normative legislation, apart from what the government has written together, that the vaccination passport is compulsory, etc. Why am I saying this? I haven't been able to read any more of the laws on the vaccination passport. If we now draw an analogy here with common important documents, such as passport and ID-card, then the law always describes what his appearance is, where the picture is, how long he is valid and when he is valid. Moreover, in order to comply with the rules, so that no one fakes anything, etc., there are sanctions that define what kind of punishment will be if it is violated. At this moment, the mere government of the Reform Party and the Central Party have said that we have a vaccination passport, and now everyone has to follow that passport. As well as good Urmas Reitelmann can take the decision that this vaccination passport is invalid. Actually. Because there is no legal delegation or mandate rule. But since the good Urmas touched on this subject, we are actually looking at where we have come from. In order to verify an absolutely illegal digital certificate, private operators have been employed to verify the existence of such evidence. It is undoubtedly clear that vaccination against COVID, or, let's say, perversion, is a human health record that is personal and delicate. The Data Protection Act specifically states that the processing of sensitive data is not allowed for everyone, but requires authorisation. As well as third parties processing them, they must be clearly registered and defined so that they do not abuse these data. At the moment, if we produce a digital certificate and somebody makes some kind of electronic device in it, whether it's positive or negative, whether it's okay or not, then the person who doesn't have the right to process these medical records will still see your medical condition with regard to this disease. It doesn't matter if it's the same COVID or if it's the Scarlaks, it's a pregnancy, it's a tripper, no matter what. These are your sensitive personal data. Today, however, people who do not have the right to do so handle and process them. As regards the requirement for this certificate at all, what right do undertakings process personal data? Do they have this right in the law? But like I said, there's no law. The only thing that is above such a mist is that Europe has adopted a digital passport. And, of course, we are getting back to the WHO agreement signed by Jüri Ratas on 5 October that the aim is to introduce a vaccination passport. The brief answer to this long story is this: in my opinion, it is a digital certificate or a digital passport, no matter what someone calls it, illegal, and against this background, our fundamental rights are being violated at a number of different levels.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U92	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U93	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! Now, if you follow and rank the whole chain of events that have brought us to this point, there are quite a few aspects of the question. If we look at how many of these same examples of vaccine side effects, even deaths, are not included in official statistics, how pharmaceutical producers are exempt from liability for vaccine side effects, how government officials and government leaders essentially empower both private companies and public authorities to apply compulsory vaccination, then the question arises whether there can be a major economic or ideological interest behind this, such as those of a foreign cartel. Is there any indication of this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U94	Yeah, there's an indication. I was referring here to Pfizer's contract, which is classified. But Pfizer has also concluded agreements with other countries and it specifically sets out [conditions]. Unfortunately, I have not seen what Estonia's conditions are, as these obligations under the contract are classified. One condition is that Pfizer prohibits the use of any other medicine besides the vaccine to combat the disease. When I watched morning television yesterday, there was a crisis manager at the Tartu Clinic, I don't remember his name, who described that we were bringing a person to the hospital, but we didn't really have any treatment. It's been a year and a half since this disease came to us, in that time no scientist has been able to develop these measures to cure it. That's the official version. But since my Facebook community is very large, there are also some doctors who have a preserved conscience and who also share simple tips on how to treat this disease. I'm not gonna bring them out, or I'm gonna be shot in the hole. But still, I mean, it's gone from use right now, even though they actually pull out the liquid generated by inflamed processes. In fact, the same doctor describes the mustard patch as helping to install it in the lower part of the lung lobes. This helps remove fluid from the area around the lung. Maybe I'm using these terms wrong, but the principle is the same. However, he also says that the staining of the goose fat recommended by Mart Helme is actually just as right. They laughed him out, but it's a method that can be used. I have acquaintances who have been hospitalized with the COVID, even in difficult circumstances. One of them describes that the main thing was lying down, only an anti-thrombotic injection was given in the stomach, so that the blood would still be liquid, and when the leg was carrying a little bit, they were told to go home on their own foot, either by bus or anything else, and no one else cared. Maybe I'm wrong in medical circumstances, but it's not always the most sensible idea to be under a breathing apparatus, especially if it's not quite learned yet.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U95	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U96	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, I am a historian, and I do not want to speak on medical matters particularly. However, even as a historian, I can see that the initial claims about the effect of vaccines against COVID are not correct, and I can actually see it with concern that there is a fight about vaccination in society. In fact, the contention of ridicule against vaccination and the fact that the government is claiming a monopoly on truth in circumstances where no one really knows the full truth about the effects of vaccines. And as a nationalist, the loss of coherence in society is actually a matter of great concern. I am now asking if the adoption of this bill could alleviate the contradictions in society.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U97	Thank you for your question. I think that this position is such that it could put an end to these contradictions, although the current government policy has already become such that I have noticed the signs that it is not really a matter of whether you are vaccinated or not, of restricting human rights, which is one of the most important beams of the Constitution. But since, good Jaak, you're a historian, maybe you'll let me give you a very brief overview of how medical knowledge has changed in time. For example, we are no longer using many procedures and treatments that were still widely used recently. It was once thought that the intake and release of mercury were therapeutic. Strangers were cut down their tongues, and a lobotomy was made to the mentally ill, and a number of methods of soothing were allowed, which we now call torture. In the 1950's, doctors appeared in cigarette ads and recommended cigarettes to calm the nerves of pregnant women. DDT, later recognised as neurotoxic, was, by the way, placed in bed for the protection of patients with parasites 70 years ago. The children were also sprinkled with this poison at the table. It hasn't been a long time since pregnant women were advised to take thalidomide for nausea, which started to cause handless and lame children to be born. A number of medicines have been collected from the market, with less benefit than the damage that the medicine itself causes. There are many such examples to take from history. You just don't talk about it to save the medical reputation. It is never excluded that the medicine, vaccine or other procedure will later prove harmful to health. Therefore, we cannot and must not talk now about forced medical procedures, even if they seem safe and necessary today. I might point out Antonina Järviste's position, in her opinion, on completely criminal behaviour with regard to vaccination of pregnant women. He has taken the view that he is old-fashioned, conservative in the case of pregnant women and infants, as he was taught not to take drugs and to do so only at the very least when a woman is in a life-threatening situation. Vaccination is out of the question. This is because all the systems in the pregnant organism are being rebuilt to protect the fetus and woman. Any outside influence creates acute resistance and a pregnant woman must be protected from infectious diseases, but vaccination is always an extreme measure if there is no alternative, but such situations are extremely rare. The newborn is protected by the mother's milk. Specific antibodies to this disease may be found in breast milk, but they are not the first violins. Mother's colostrum plus her microbioma triggers a child's complex immune system. This development ends in about puberty, and any external interventions, in particular vaccinations, are evil. The abundance and function of the immunological elements of breast milk is awe-inspiring, one of the wonders of nature. I therefore have a very negative view of research funded by pharmaceutical companies. In the current immunisation plan, vaccinations are mostly non-existent against diseases, and now there is another project. This is Antonina Järviste's assessment of this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U98	There's been a noise in the hall. Maybe it'll keep it down. Next question, Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U99	Good manager! Good waitress! Unlike my colleague Jaak White, I am not a historian, I am a medical clan and a specialist micro-genetic. As I travel around the country, I also face the talk of troubled people every day, just like you. But I've collected these concerns and sent them to the Health Board or the Agency, very, very many times, not to talk nonsense, but to find out how it is. We have a country, and we have to trust it, at least his authorities. If we don't trust them, they need to be replaced. As a rule, these concerns have not been confirmed. My question to you is, have you turned? I heard those appalling stories you described here, everything you've been told, right? Have you actually put them together, specifically, and sent them to the Health Board or the Medicines Agency? By the way, they respond quite quickly and specifically to the ambassador. Of course, state secrets stamps and everything's on it, right? But I've got the information, and I'm asking you if you've done it to make it real.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U100	Thank you, good Peter! You called yourself a geneticist, I think you're a geneticist in biology, right, at least not in medicine. But it doesn't matter now. The question is that I cannot do it myself, because it is a human health record that is filled in on the relevant form. That's why I don't understand, Peter, how you've been able to send this data to the Agency or somewhere else. It is a sensitive health record for which only the patient who has been through it and has suffered from it. So for me, there is a question mark on how this can be done. That's one side of it. I have advised all those who have approached me to do exactly what you have actually done. But the question is also that at least one person in my circle of acquaintances, who I suggested it was a young person, said it was very difficult to find the place where a complaint could be lodged. But here we come, actually, good Peter, to a completely different and more serious problem. The problem is that people who have received this vaccine have not been accepted that they are willing to participate in these trials. That's one thing. The other thing is that there is now and there is an urgent vaccination this week, where it is all on the conveyor belt. Perhaps without pre-registration, a person will be accepted, identity document, injection away, out, five or ten minutes to wait, that's all, isn't it? I do not see any possibility here today that there will be science-based vaccination, where possible human co-morbidities or pre-existing medical problems have been identified. It's very, very sad. We have a plan economy right now. Tanel Kiik has said such a golden sentence that if we now vaccinate 70% of the population, then our society is free. I wonder if Tanel Kiik has entered into a contract with these germs and viruses, so if we get 70%, they're gonna let this shit go. I don't think I've made a deal. Anyway, who's put out a number like 70%? Who's the smart one? I would like to know what data he relied on. But why not 80? Or why not 60? Where's that number that we're producing here at every step of the way -- 70%, you're okay? I say it's not okay. The whole system needs to be reviewed and the tests that are currently being carried out here on Estonian territory must be made punishable. And at precisely the level that it would also be the individual responsible who have been collaborators, those who are currently receiving a certain financial incentive from the Health Insurance Fund from the injection, when they do the injection. After all, this is a financial influence and pressure on people to give the injection, because that is the way of income. But we still can't know that until we have the WHO Additional Protocols, the Agreements. We only find out who's been playing along when we know the terms of the Pfizer agreement or the AstraZeneca we produce here. And the people who are doing this now have to be held accountable. They must be held accountable. You're all playing with people's lives right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U101	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U102	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I'd like to come to the children's vaccination. So far, this has also been voluntary in Estonia. I was also asked for consent at the maternity home and later on for every procedure. No one's ever leaned me into anything or, for God's sake, forced me to do anything, so far. Even though children who have not been vaccinated have not been subject to any restrictions, sanctions, humiliation or differentiation for various reasons. However, with the COVID vaccine, we see all of this. The statements made by the Minister of Education are, to put it mildly, frightening. Is it a question of stupid communication, or is it that the government imposes a coercion that involves all our children in this process?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U103	Honestly, I don't really know exactly what to say here. First of all, the vaccination pressure is on our children. The aim is to vaccinate as many children as possible. In fact, the immunoprophylaxis commission has stated, on the basis of the recommendation of the Chancellor of Justice of 2019 that if the mental condition of the child permits, the child can be vaccinated without parental consent. I think that this approach is somehow very north Korean, because by saying it [it seems that] we are no longer parents, but our children are national. But I'm still kind of seeing the 70% filling moments Tanel Swing wants to do. After all, this number does not come full, and it requires vaccination at school. The Health Insurance Fund will send instructions on how to do this, and it will be done by school nurses. These letters have gone out, and it's very scary, actually. At the same time, the Minister of Education, Kersna, said clearly in yesterday's Vikerradio show, between 11 and 12 o'clock, that in some schools some classes had gone for distance training, because the COVID was identified there. And how is this rehearsal done? He is quite concerned that we are doing such a simple test, a quick test that can be bought at the Maximarket for three euros and perhaps a little more high-quality somewhere else for six euros. We're giving up the PCR test that we've had on the basis of this test. This approach is incomprehensible to me. It's about the same thing if we gave up controlling a drunk person with a drunk indicator and just let him blow the inspector in the face. At schools, the use of a PCR test that is hypersensitive is waived. According to a letter from the Health Board, Synlab uses a reproduction cycle of 40, which is hypersensitive and even takes out fragments of a dead virus, without identifying the virus itself. It is being abandoned in order to switch to rapid tests, the question of credibility of which is absolutely not legitimate at all. Because the beam test is a tool that, with a positive result, we have to go and check that response with the PCR test, because it's our microscope, the beam test is just looking at it with the naked eye next to it. This approach is wrong. Children and parents must retain the right to refuse vaccination if they do not wish to do so. Besides, I'm relying again on Antonina Järviste's position on children of this age shouldn't be pricked. At the beginning of the presentation of today's draft, I described that the side effects of AstraZeneca were clearly stated in the letter, not in my design, but clearly in the letter, that there was no study for children under 18 years of age. Okay, we're gonna vaccinate the baby. But what happens next? Do we know now whether this child will be able to become a father, be a mother after the offspring? We don't know that. And already in that sense, child vaccination is a crime. I fully agree with that view of Antonina Järviste. Leave the kids alone! They are our future. And those who violate their future must be punished. That's what this bill is for.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U104	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U105	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good Kalle! Now you have very strongly stressed this need for accountability. In fact, yes, the national conservatives have been at war for a long time to put this excessive overdrive of liberalisation, with which our society is easily broken back into a reasonable frame. We recall the outcome of the reform of the Penal Code, which came into force here in 2015, which has resulted in a number of important rules being removed from the Penal Code. I would remind you of the draft law 331, which was rejected on 14 April and by which the EKRE wished to bring back the Penal Code a rule that would allow compulsory liquidation of companies that have committed a crime. But the Liberals opposed. It's the same thing. In fact, compulsory liquidation of companies is once again sought if they commit a criminal offence. It's unregulated. But what did the government tell you in their reply letter? On May 24, the government wrote an answer to you as to why it is not in favour of this law. And one of the arguments of the government was that the bill must have a high value protection in society.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U106	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U107	Maybe you don't do it with your bill. How do you know that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U108	It is stated in the draft law that there will still be an end to legal entities, because it is extremely important in this society. If constitutional values are essentially ignored and, for example, medical tests are carried out on people, which our constitution does not allow, then this institution or company is simply forced to terminate, because the values that it bears do not serve the interests of the Estonian people, but are based on a selfish desire to enrich. I don't know if I could answer that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U109	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U110	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Kalle Grünthal! I was watching a movie last night. In my opinion, the activities took place in the United States in the 1930s. There were two young men who were very worried about having sexual urges and satisfying them on their own. And then a young man said that it was all very scary and read a medical book that said that spontaneous or independent ejection could lead to epilepsy, mental disorders, to madness. Now, that was a high level of medical science back then. Now I have a question. Do we have surveillance of vaccinees in the Republic of Estonia and registration of their possible health problems after receiving vaccine injections? And whose mission should that be?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U111	Unfortunately, I have to owe you an answer here. I know there have been isolated cases where death due to COVID [vaccine] has been fixed. The question, however, is that it is not advisable to disclose these data in particular, because in such a case, when data about what has been caused by the vaccine and which is indirectly caused by vaccination begin to leak, the whole vaccination process and the 70% target run to a dead end. And actually, if he runs into a dead end, then the agreement with Pfizer will not be fulfilled, which will actually put the entire Estonian people in an extremely difficult position. And since I was talking about Pfizer here a little bit, I will say again, referring to one clause in the Pfizer Treaty, that the most amazing revelation is the one that states: "If there are laws or rules in your country to prosecute Pfizer, you agree to amend the law or regulation to end it. " Perhaps the government currently in power with Kiige and Kallas is actually defending the interests of Pfizer by carrying out this process here. Of course, they do not provide any information about the side effects of this [vaccine], because then the card cabin they built will collapse. After all, I've been tried by all kinds of fact checks before. I have invited them to this Riigikogu to make things clear in front of the camera, but they have not come. Then I've acted in accordance with their own rules and challenged their claims that I've lied. But at one point, they're gonna finish the correspondence, and that's the end of it. Basically, mainstream media is working in the direction of fulfilling the form of cooperation provided by the government and, I even say, the WHO agreement, although I do not have that list at the moment. Vaccination is promoted at every step of the way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U112	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U113	Good manager and good waitress! For starters, my research relates to drug resistance, i.e. directly to medicine. But that's it. And second of all, you're saying there's no way to make inquiries. It's possible. When people have real concerns, they give their name, date, symptoms, etc., and I've mediated them. So I think it would also be useful for other colleagues [so do] if they had not done so yet. But we must actually worry about all the people of Estonia and about every life. In this semester 1200 deaths due to COVID, the Institute of Health Development [data], last year 200. But we also need to understand that the public authorities are full of manure and that there is a great deal of distrust in the country. The issue of liability in this regard is crucial. But my question right now is that the world is whole and the virus boy is attacking everywhere. Is it coming out of other countries with a similar bill, or has the law been passed?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U114	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U115	Americans, Jews, Germans and Danes also look forward to their lives.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U116	I will answer this question in this way. In fact, the WHO has adopted the view that people should not be pressured against vaccination. This must be a man's permanent voluntary position; there should be no pressure here. But I don't know if the officials and ministers in our government are illiterate, that somehow they don't read it, or they don't want to read it. But since you, good Peter, also touched death statistics, I happen to have learned that in 2018 there were 15751, and in 2019 there were 15401 deaths in Estonia, and in 2020 there were 15811 deaths without a pandemic injection. If we now sum up and look at the six-month range, we will see that in 2020 there were 7807 deaths to be injected, and this year, within six months of our injection, there are 9353 deaths. So, what I'm saying is, in the first six months of this year, there's 1546 more deaths. It's a colossal leap. And I don't understand how the government can promote such an attitude when the number of our deaths has increased. I would also like to give not general statistics, but one example of Järvamaa, Koerus, where the number of deaths has usually been three or four deceased in November, December and January, but after the injection was started, the first injection of AstraZeneca and the second in mid-February, then by March 15, 22 subjects had died. It's a thought-provoking number. And here we actually come to the position of Antonina Järviste that vaccination in the epidemic or pandemic peak period is very dangerous because it creates new virulent strains that will live their lives. And actually, right now we're in a situation where we're being served, that now there's already a delta strain. But I have not seen anyone who could have described how the PCR test can distinguish between the delta strain and this primary strain, the alpha strain, because it is not possible to make them clear on this level; it requires very, very strong equipment and smart people. These claims that now there's a delta strain, when someone gives an answer, also reveals the image of this virus under an electron microscope, which is the difference between them, it would be very interesting to see it. But as they say, with humor, I'm going to say that if there's a delta strain, there's gonna be more gamma, and so on, as long as this Greek alphabet runs out, but then we're gonna get help with the Chinese alphabet with more than 500 hieroglyphs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U117	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U118	I would like to introduce that we are trying to leave the media and, to some extent, the ambassadors in this Chamber and the members of the government are trying to give the impression that we are dealing with an extremely devastating disease, where people fall off their feet like a lump plague or suffer seriously, so that it ends up with death like dysentery or some of these extremely contagious and devastating diseases. There's nothing like that. There's nothing like that! From here, I am going to jump over the fact that, in a situation where the absolute majority of people are suffering from this disease, like some flu, cold or some other completely common disease, to have such an insane injection campaign, which, obviously by logic, leads to the death of people with a weaker organism, is criminal. And my question is: what can parents do to protect their children from the pressure of school and government to carry out a forced vaccination?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U119	It's a very difficult question. Well, let's say, if you're based on basic constitutional institutions, the first thing is to accept, under no circumstances, that the school is asking you for permission to vaccinate the child. It must also not be accepted that consent is given to the right to process and handle the child's health data. If these things do not help, there is nothing to be done, then we must go to court to defend our rights. But I think there's one other option. We need to adopt the same law that we are currently dealing with. We need to be assured that the government's current actions are in breach of the Constitution. EKRE, assisted by lawyers, lawyers, is currently working on a request for a court to put an end to this abnormal situation. In fact, we have been told from the outset that children do not suffer from this disease at all dangerously, that it will go away exactly as the good Mart described, with minor side effects similar to colds and colds. The real situation and life now show that it is. Because if the PCR test, which is hypersensitive, doesn't detect a child's illness, why do we have to trust some sort of quick test by a school nurse? He may also be involved in some sort of financial gain. It's hypothetical, of course, but factually true. Parents have to fight for their children, nothing to do. I know they concentrated on September 1, because the schools said that only those parents who have been vaccinated would be allowed in. And the result was that basically the Baltic chain was formed and the schools gave in. The schools gave in and let all the people in, then the Education Minister Kersna intervened, who said that this restriction does not apply to schools because they are not public places. What can I do? The best thing to do is change the government to stop this madness. Folks, come help and protect the constitutional order that is slipping away right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U120	Before going to the next question, we must take a vote. We have received a proposal from the Estonian Reform Party Group to extend today's plenary session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. This proposal must be voted on. I'll do the hall call first for two minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, we have received a proposal from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party to extend today's plenary session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U121	There are 38 ambassadors in favour of the proposal, 17 against the proposal. The proposal was supported, we will continue our work until 2:00 today. And now, please, let's continue to process 373 SEs. The next question is the word Heljo Pikhof. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U122	Thank you. Good Kalle! I agree with you on this point that, in informing about vaccination and whether masks are recommended or mandatory, the government has missed a great deal, both the previous and this. But when you were talking about deaths, you didn't specify that they were unvaccinated people who died. You just pointed out this data as if the people who had been vaccinated had died. Actually, it's a lie. Now, as we proceed from here, what is the significance of vaccination? Two weeks ago, Adik Levin went to the Social Democrats and, by the way, said that a hundred years ago people lived to be 42, an average age of 42 years, but largely due to vaccination, our average age today is double. And now that we're talking about schools having no access to the child's health records, that's out of the question. But the question I have is, have you been vaccinated with Sputnik or some Chinese vaccine? Because I'm coming to the remote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U123	I could, of course, say that my medical records are sensitive, but since I'm not making a secret of this, I'm saying I haven't been vaccinated with any vaccines. As for, good Heljo, your complaint that I've said something wrong here, I can't agree with that. It was about deaths, statistics. I didn't tell you who's been vaccinated or unvaccinated. I was talking about this period, which was six months in 2020, when no people were injected, i.e. there were no vaccines, and the number of deaths was 7807. In 2021, the first six months of injecting were 9353. Basically, I brought out all the deaths, not whether people were vaccinated or not. Maybe my explanation wasn't correct, but I just brought the general statistics, not the one who's been vaccinated or vaccinated.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U124	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U125	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, We've already had a debate here on money issues, and here's my question. I have recently read that a total of 215 trillion dollars has been paid in the sale of CO2 quotas, and recent studies say that its impact on the global climate has been exactly zero. But someone got very, very rich. What are the amounts of money in the vaccine bin? Do you have any idea of the amounts guaranteed by the contracts received by AstraZeneca or Pfizer?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U126	I can answer that question, I hope, by the end of this spring, if the EKRE succeeds in obtaining these contracts. But I think the time will come. They're talking about billions of dollars. I don't know, I don't know exactly how to answer this question, but we're at least trying to find out what kind of money Estonia has been playing in Estonia, like this vaccine thing at all. Because I remember very clearly what I have repeatedly asked Kaja Kallas about in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. After all, in the spring Kaja Kallas suggested that in the Kuku radio show, I drove towards Tallinn [and I remember] and said that we were offering human health data for Johnson & Johnson's vaccine. You don't get that kind of data, it costs a lot. However, I am convinced that these sums, at least those that affect the part of Estonia, will come out at one point. So why is all this stuff classified? Our health records, our general health records, concerning vaccines, under which conditions they are kept secret, are confidential. If you're honest, tell me the conditions under which we can get these shots and what we have to give in return.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U127	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U128	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Kalle! Now we've been talking here for a long time, asking about these vaccines and all this stuff and answering. The problem is serious. Personally, I am a vaccine believer, as you know, and I think that much of this is based on faith right now. Some believe in this side, and others believe in the other side, because the vaccines are not yet as long as to say, we have also had an investigation that could give us full responsibility. You got that right. But the question is this. A good colleague, Peeter Ernits, asked you if there is such a law in other countries in the world as we are now planning to do. You didn't answer that, but it would be very interesting to know.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U129	Yes, I apologize to Peter for ignoring that question. I don't know, exactly, honestly, I don't know. The simplest answer. Although the politician of the Riigikogu must never say that he does not know, because this is the worst sign, you can even get a yoga out of your mouth. But I say I don't know. And as for the situation that you're a vaccine believer, I wouldn't argue with that. In fact, I also believe in vaccines that have been tested, which have undergone experimental and error methods and for which it has been made sufficiently clear what the side effects are. I believe in these vaccines. And I've been vaccinated myself. But in this case, in the case of this COVID issue, these vaccines have not passed the final results. I'd like to know how we're gonna vaccinate children and say that it helps okay, maybe even helps, but I don't know if these kids are gonna be able to give birth afterwards. And then which is the greater damage that a child simply suffers through this illness, even seriously, or that he remains a person for life who cannot feel the joy of a mother or father?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U130	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U131	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In answer to my question about the vaccination of mission soldiers, you said that your draft does not concern the so-called old and controlled vaccines, or exactly what it was. I read the draft and the draft explanatory memorandum in the meantime, and I didn't find that distinction, the draft and the explanatory memorandum talk about vaccination. Consequently, even the most common tetanus vaccine could be criminal in the future. And now I don't quite understand whether in the future the Riigikogu will assess what good vaccines are and what bad vaccines are. But my question. If your draft is to become a law, but the Estonian Defence Forces continue to believe that the Defence Forces must be vaccinated in order to maintain their fighting capacity, will you personally initiate the compulsory closure of the Estonian Defence Forces?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U132	The brief answer is that I will not initiate this forced winding-up, but I would point out, good Madis Milling, that when this draft was submitted, it was sometimes supplemented by various materials. So I don't know why the Committee on Legal Affairs hasn't added anything else. Let me remind you that this is a first reading. Perhaps then we will all have the opportunity to put forward our amendments to this draft in order to make it better. And I am very pleased that you have drawn attention to this fact that you have just described. Absolutely I cannot agree with what you are saying that if we do not now vaccinate against COVID, for example, etc., because the question is actually that it has been granted conditional authorisation. The conditions are that we do not know exactly what the side effects of these vaccines are. Perhaps these results will not be known until two years later. I remind you, maybe you weren't in the hall, but I also told you that there's probably only one soldier in the Defence Forces according to official records, maybe I'm a little wrong, but the order of magnitude is the same, military, and one is an ally military, who's been hospitalized with this disease. At this point, the problem is that... In fact, there is no problem, because the Commander of the Defence Forces, Herem, has sent out such a letter or document at the beginning of this year, [which has been said roughly so] that we have a vaccination optional in the Defence Forces, but if you do not, that means that you will not obey the direct command of the commander. It's a forced vaccination. The military have no choice but to follow orders. At the same time, this circular sent to the Defence Forces states very specifically that this first period passed us very critically, but there were no serious problems with the fact that some members of the Defence Forces had not been vaccinated. And at the same time, he, let's say by imposing this vaccination requirement, or we're releasing you from work, suggests that we don't want to be in a situation where we're not able to protect our country. But it is this oppression of national defence that, in my opinion, is the part where Herem, in fact, I am not going to interpret the Penal Code here, that puts Estonian security at risk by removing trained specialists, only because they are unvaccinated. The question is: How did the Defence Forces manage to date, for example, with influenza virus, where people also fell away and fell and fell ill? We've been through this process. There were deaths, too. So this approach, I don't know whose interests it serves. But you, good Madis, can support this bill and present your corrections here. I believe that the people are only pleased that you come and contribute to ending this unconstitutional situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U133	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U134	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good waitress! Indeed, human health is very much the result of man's own responsibility and his behaviour and decisions. For the sake of the verbatim, I simply ask that our audience be fully clear. When there was an extension of the sitting, you said something to Mrs Pikhof about your health records and said that you were completely unvaccinated. It took a little while, and then you answered Mr. Breivel. Then there was the talk of religion, the belief in the vaccine, and you said you were vaccinated, too. Why don't you guys go over it for once, which one's on it, and it's going to be a verbatim.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U135	Okay. In fact, both answers are correct. Because I said I wasn't vaccinated against COVID. Maybe you didn't notice, but Mrs. Pikhof asked if I had been vaccinated with Sputnik or something else. He had a specific objective and a specific question about the vaccines of the current situation. I remember it, I remember it very clearly, and that's what I'm gonna stick to. But when it comes to the vaccinations that have been made in childhood with smallpox and so on, yes, that is what I have done.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U136	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U137	No, I asked you if you've been vaccinated because I'm on my way to the remote. And that's why I asked if I had to have everything disinfected now or what the question is. Either way, I'm coming in the mask now. That's what I asked, and I asked, at least with Sputnik or this Chinese vaccine, if all of them...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U138	But it still ran through.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U139	...won't do. Yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U140	You can vaccinate or, I mean, you can disinfect, yes. I'm sorry I'm messing around like this! Let's call it a day. [[Picking up papers.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U141	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. We're going to see another waitress, and this is Heljo Pikhof, vice-president of the Legal Affairs Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U142	Thank you. Honourable Riigikogu! I will reflect the debate that took place in the Commission. We discussed the EKRE draft on 8 June, including: Since Kalle Grünthal has now made a very thorough review of the 373 draft, perhaps I will not talk so thoroughly about what happened in the Commission, because there are several pages, but some places [token]. He read to us at the committee a summary of the treatment characteristics of AstraZeneca. It was interesting to hear what these qualities are and what the dangers we have read in the newspaper are. Yeah, we kind of gained some insight. Then he also said that it follows from the reading, i.e. the introduction of the AstraZeneca vaccine, that it is only an experimental vaccine and that health care professionals should investigate the side effects. And he said it said that the medicinal product had been authorised under a conditional authorisation, which means that further evidence of the properties of this medicinal product was expected. Well, yeah. Then he also said in the Commission that this is an experimental vaccine, as he has also spoken here today, and it is still being studied, and it is the people of Estonia who are being tested on. He then said that he had read the summary of the product characteristics and said that mass vaccination has been carried out in Estonia and the Estonian people have been urged to vaccinate through the media. Yeah, it's invited, and it's very good that it's invited. He said the same thing in this hall today that Antonina Järviste told us over the phone because she wasn't there. So I'm not gonna say it again. Kalle Grünthal said it here today even more fully than the protocol says. He also stressed that many people in Estonia have sent him letters regarding the compulsory vaccination, and he also showed us a whole bunch of letters. Okay. And when we arrived at Markus Kärner, who is a representative of the Ministry of Justice, he said that the Government of the Republic would not support this bill. And now, when it comes to penal law, he said that criminal law is a very serious way of violating the rights of individuals, and therefore the formulation of criminal law must not be taken lightly. Penal law is therefore not a measure to solve problems in society or to lay down codes of conduct, but a means to protect legal order against violations of existing standards of conduct. Kärner also said that if the AstraZeneca vaccine were to be subjected to medical tests in Estonia, it is still punishable. There is no need for a new piece of crime. The proposed amendment to § 138 of the Penal Code would rather narrow the current criminal offence, as the proposed solution would only link the admissibility of the study to a voluntary one. Kärner also said that the draft provides that the eight-year minimum penalty, i.e. eight years in prison, and the Tartu Circuit Court has pointed out that this may prove to be contrary to the Constitution, because it does not allow for an assessment of the guilt insofar as acts may have different incorrect content. This means that no matter how serious the infringement would be, eight years is the minimum. Kärner said that if illegal human research was carried out, making it possible for people to die in the course of the study, and someone would lose their lives in the course of the study, then it was murder. He also stressed that there was no need for the constituent elements of the crime in question and that this could be considered unduly punishable by a situation in which, in exceptional cases, the employer would be forced to cease working with a person who refused vaccination in the interests of the life and health of other people. Mr Kärner said that if someone's employment relationship had been terminated unduly, on the pretext that a person had not been vaccinated, and this person felt that this was not justified, it would be possible to go to court to defend his rights. He also stressed that violence must not force anyone to vaccinate, of course, and violence is a separate punishment in Estonia. Kärner also said that, to his knowledge, there is no compulsory vaccination in [Estonia]. Now, Anti Poolamets asked who was responsible for the death of a person or for the development of health problems if they were caused by the vaccine AstraZeneca, but the person only made the vaccine because if he had not been vaccinated, he would have lost his job. Markus Kärner, the representative of the Ministry of Justice, said that he is not an expert in medicine, but that the authorisation of the vaccine is based on best knowledge and many medicines have side effects. Markus Kärner said that it is possible, in criminal law, that no one is responsible because it is based on the best knowledge that the vaccine is safe. To that end, Kalle Grünthal said that, when reading the summary of the product characteristics reported at the hearing, he demonstrated that vaccinations with AstraZeneca were intended to provide new information. Okay. Kalle Grünthal also asked why no one has at present been held responsible for carrying out illegal human trials because people have been vaccinated with the vaccine AstraZeneca. Markus Kärner replied that illegal medical practice was registered in 2009. If someone feels that illegal human attempts have been made, it is possible to file a criminal complaint. He added that he considered that the amendment proposed in the draft did not affect the meaning or outcome of the composition. Decisions were also taken by the Commission on 8 June. The proposal was to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 14 June, but the time has already passed today. Mr Pikhof was appointed rapporteur and it was proposed that the draft be rejected. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U143	Questions can also be asked to the rapporteur. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U144	Thank you, Mr President. Good Vice-Chairman of the Legal Affairs Commission! I did not understand at all that there had been any debate on the violation of rights. And here it was described a moment ago how a representative of the Ministry of Justice said that criminal law could seriously violate the rights of persons, but the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs did not even discuss the fact that the forced vaccination was a very serious violation of constitutional rights. It is still up to the Commission to assess all the facts objectively. I have a question: did you simply miss this debate in the minutes or did you not have any debate, just decided with the coalition's votes that you will now vote down this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U145	Well, in fact, there was no direct debate on whether or not there was a forced vaccination on the ground. This is because the representative of the Ministry of Justice also said that no forced vaccination has taken place in Estonia. I mean this AstraZeneca thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U146	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U147	Thank you, dear waitress. To date, there is a situation in which workers can be released from work on the basis of a regulatory act such as "the working environment, health and safety requirements affected by biological hazards'. Paragraph 6 "Restriction of health risk', paragraph 2 (7) states: "ensure the possibility of vaccination for workers exposed to biological risk factors, and now listen carefully to what an effective vaccine is available. " All the previous discussion that has taken place in this Chamber today, [taking into account] where we do not know exactly the side effects and side effects, how long they will last, etc., do you consider this to be a safe and effective vaccine?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U148	Thanks for asking me that. I haven't been to the medical school in college. I'm a lawyer. It is not right for me to evaluate the safety of one vaccine or another, but I believe and trust the doctors and the experts who have said that this vaccine will help prevent serious illness and death. I've been vaccinated myself with AstraZeneca, and I was really looking forward to being vaccinated.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U149	Now, the third question is from Urmas Reitelmann, but two questions can be asked from two waitresses.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U150	You ask in the hallway.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U151	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U152	Thank you. Good waitress! Since you said such a very beautiful sentence, that you believe those doctors who have said that it helps and is effective, please state if you believe these people, then you need to know exactly the names of those doctors who have given you such information so that I can find out where they have taken that knowledge.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U153	Thank you. I mean, either you believe it or you don't, but you've read the papers, too. Irja Lutsar has been very clear about the benefits of this vaccine, as have family doctors and representatives of family doctors. I'm not going to read anyone here by name, but let's just say I don't know any doctors who would say don't vaccinate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U154	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. We can go to the negotiations. In the negotiations at first reading, representatives of the political groups will get the floor and, first, Tiiu Aro has signed up. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U155	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Without embarrassment, you have a doctor and a long-term health officer in front of you. We're in the middle of a very exciting, obviously necessary discussion here, but at times, it's embarrassing. And that's why I can't be quiet either. Vaccines and coercive in a very serious subject. However, let us not forget that the world knows vaccines for over 100 years. Vaccines have, I could say, probably saved billions of lives over the years. And they have always benefited more than harm. Can't deny it, the vaccines against the COVID have received the appropriate permits. I wouldn't call it an experiment with people. At the same time, the information is enormous, I would say, too much. And, unfortunately, it seems that from time to time this information is considered to be very selective in terms of what fits its own claims. And statistics are also a very dangerous weapon. Statistics must also be handled in a very constructive, correct manner and, like the multiplication table, cannot do any good. What is one of our fundamental rights? As a doctor, I know: health, the right to health protection. Vaccines are not designed to cripple people, but it has to be said: there is not one good thing in the world. None of the drugs or any of the vaccines have it, there's always some side effects. But always medical professionals choose and consider what is bossy in this case, whether this is a benefit. However, these vaccines are of benefit in this case. I'm also going to disclose my medical records. I have had [COVID] last March and have been vaccinated a year later, and I dare say that the side effects of the vaccine were almost nonexistent alongside what I felt during the illness. Now for the bill. In this case, can we talk at all about coercion and coercive vaccination in this context, which the leaders of our welfare and health care institutions, the Defence Forces, other important employers and jobs must go through. The employer has a responsibility for the services of his clients, patients. And we already have cases where an unvaccinated worker has led to an outbreak and several deaths. Yeah, we can say these people were old, they would have died anyway, they had a lot of diseases, and so on. But let us think a little bit wider. That's all I have to say. Let's be reasonable, please! Our health is still largely in our own hands, and this bill is not considered necessary by us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U156	Thank you. Viktor Vassilyev, on behalf of the Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U157	Thank you, President of the sitting. I'm asking for more time right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U158	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U159	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the entire EKRE group for this excellent performance that was well prepared and professionally conducted. Of course, I am not going to create a discussion here because we are not here as a research institution or as a medical conference. Moreover, the problems have been discussed in very authoritative research institutions. Very authoritative scientists have also made authoritative decisions and the result is, for example, that nearly 500000 people have been vaccinated in Estonia and 50 people were here before the Riigikogu, who are opposed. So what are we talking about here? A good theatrical performance does not have to give any real output, such as an increase in the stock market index or a fall in the price of gas. No! A good show must create emotion, and in me it created. Honestly, I enjoyed it because the soloist was a great, professional choir supported as needed. It all worked out the way it did. I don't know, for some reason, they didn't clap, but they could've, because the show was totally worth it. Very important nuances, such as inequality, were also highlighted. Yeah, of course! Our world is unequal. Mr Kalle said here that we have created inequalities between those who are vaccinated and those who are not vaccinated. That's it, if there's an event, there's a wire fence in there. But somehow, there's a handful of vaccinees like in a cage and unvaccinated then admire and look at them. But okay, the garden is sometimes, yeah. You know, I'm saying that this thing, vaccination/non-vaccination, is voluntary because no one's chasing Kalle Grünthal to bring him in handcuffed to the Town Hall Square and vaccinate him at the hands of the executioner in front of the jubilee crowds. Nobody does that. As regards, for example, an ambulance worker, of course, he must have been vaccinated. But it's voluntary. If you don't, go somewhere else to work. 'Cause listen, you can't drive drunk, it's dangerous for yourself and for others. But drunk driving, notice, is absolutely voluntary. Nobody's forcing you. Inequality. You see, there are two kinds of inequality: that's when there's racial segregation between black and white, then that's a shame, it can't be. However, God has created this world as unequal, sinful, and clean from sin. This is the inequality of the sinful pure go to heaven; sinners are not allowed. Notice, sin is voluntary and sometimes very pleasant, but the consequences can be severe. Riches and poverty. Well, it's kind of voluntary, too. Well, work, work like the classic said, okay? But the unequal is the one who has the money, it buys the airship, right, and who doesn't have the money, it walks to heaven, and the sky is already watching, yes. But yeah, the show was really great, and I liked it, but now, if you continue a little bit on inequality issues, then Kalle Grünthal was completely nailed, and here you should expand a little bit on this subject. We also have other inequalities. There are certain groups of people in society whose inequalities are not voluntary, such as fools. No fool gets a decent education, stupid pay is low, fools don't get a public official high, fools don't get elected to a selectable collection, he's discriminated. The whole right to the fools! Well, I don't know, you should set up some stupid party or association, and there could actually be a stupid party, right, that a fool shouldn't infiltrate nameless, anonymously, decent parties, or somehow half-secret climb into high state office to secretly do stupidity, and no one knows who did this stupid thing. It could be completely public, wouldn't it? It could be a party of fools, and then everything would be transparent, democratic liberal, as it must be in a proper democratic country. Or are you saying there's a stupid party? When I'm lost, I sincerely and sincerely apologize if this is the case. Right now would be the right time for me to disperse my cover and show the letter on the sweater that stupidity is free. No, I can't do that, there are rules in Parliament, there are ethics, there is courtesy. Well, I don't know, maybe the president who would have been elected by the stupid party could have done it. But we have democracy. Everyone has the right to be a fool, everyone has the right to run for president, even a fool when he's a citizen, right, so all rights actually exist. Though stupid doesn't volunteer, yes. But the show was great. So look, there really doesn't have to be any real decision at the theater, or if Othello is played and Othello has strangled Desdemona, right, then what's the end of the theater? Ends with the curtain falling, the Desdemona will be raised in full health and health, with Othello coming, bowing, going to the buffet and taking a good cognac, right? And the audience won't fight against family violence or domestic violence in front of the theater, will they? I won't. The audience goes home and takes a little cognac, a little wine, crack glasses, and everything's fine because the show was good. So the show has to be, the show must go on, right, and we're still waiting for new and shiny shows. Because sometimes it's just boring to sit here when there's nothing fun going on and all they talk about is wisdom. For wisdom, it is like a wiener. Well, how many wieners do you eat when there's no mustard on it? Comes Kalle Grünthal, smears mustard on it, doesn't it, and the wiener goes down a lot better. So thank you, Kalle! Right now, that would be where I could clap. Get up, get up. Stand up and bow. You deserve it. Bravo! And we're waiting for another shiny show. It will certainly benefit all of us because there must be good emotion. When a person is happy, he is healthy, when a person's mood is good, his immunity is also better. And, of course, even better, if this happy person has been vaccinated just in case, at least he doesn't have a question of whether or not to vaccinate. But actually, we're all people, vaccinated and unvaccinated, smart and stupid people. Let's go on living friendly, waiting for your next performances. And good health to you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U160	Kalle Grünthal must have a line. Please, Kalle!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U161	Thank you. First of all, thank Viktor for his praise. I have to say, the aria you just presented on the remote is worth a real Oscar. And I think you're gonna get that Oscar tonight when you get out of this Riigikogu building and the people welcome you, so get your spirit ready for it. But, of course, if you get a little more serious now, I followed Viktor's speech very closely, it was really theatrical and well presented, but given Viktor's professionalism, I'm a little bit disappointed. Because the question now is that, you see, I was talking about vaccines and the reliability of vaccines all this time, that is, we are being subjected to medical tests without asking for the consent of the people, and also in the light of the biological data provided by the human rights convention. Viktor didn't want to talk about it at all. Maybe turning this presentation into a farce today, he's trying to make it look like it was all a joke. But these people are actually dying from these experimental vaccines right now. And I also think that the reference to letting go of the ambulance staff is not very correct, because the release is based on the fact that they have not been vaccinated. But what matters is what there is an effective vaccine against. Now, Viktor didn't say a word about whether the current vaccine was effective or not. I would have expected the correct answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U162	Let's continue the negotiations. In the name of the Fatherland, Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U163	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, It is difficult for me to be serious after the excellent performance of my colleague, Mrs Vassilyev, but I will try to do so. I'll start a little further. I'm not a doctor, even though I've been trying to keep up with medical issues since I was a kid, I have a lot of doctors in my family, and I know a little about this job. But I'm a cultural researcher. By the way, I've been studying all kinds of conspiracy theories. And I have to say, this current vaccine phobia is nothing new. Mr. Grünthal has divided the vaccines into two. Some are good, tried, but others are new. I remember, not from personal experience, but from the book, which was when the vaccine against smallpox was developed. First of all, the first attempts were completely unethical. This vaccine was tested on the children of the servants because it was a pity for their children, and only when the results were good did they. But now we've won the smallpox because this vaccine was developed. I remember the fears then. For example, you get that shot and then you get horns or hooves. These were the pictures. There were people who saw the people who grew hooves and horns. It was massive. And it was enlightened in England, it was in France, it was in Russia. So it was mass phobias and it was no joke. Doctors were killed because [they were supposed to] spread death. You'll be injected with this, and let's see what happens. That is the case, in the case of mass epidemics, that doctors are accused. There have been numerous mass killings of doctors in cholera in Russia. Since the doctors were mostly Germans, other Germans were killed just in case, because you don't know if there's a potential doctor. It says here [currently] is an experimental vaccine. These vaccines, both Pfizer and AstraZeneca, have been tested, passed all three stages in full volume and there was nothing there. The problem was Sputnik's third stage, whether it would be passed. Generally speaking, how a vaccine was developed against COVID is a kind of great achievement for mankind, how quickly, how thoroughly it was done and how secure it is. It says here that there are people who believe in the vaccine, and there are those who do not believe in the vaccine. I don't think the vaccine is such a cowardly thing to believe. I am the faith of God. But everything else is about control, scientific and other methods. And it is well known [data], as Mr Argu pointed out here earlier. In Estonia, I think one or two people have died, vaccinated. The rest of the people who died in the COVID were unvaccinated. What kind of statistics are we talking about here? My colleague, Kalle Grünthal, pointed out that it was typical, it was in the 19th century that vaccinations began and people began to die. Yeah, that's backwards logic. I'll ask for three minutes, just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U164	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U165	But as far as religion is concerned, I would simply quote the pope of Rome because I am a Catholic who said that vaccination is a love of neighbor. That's how you protect others. I don't want to convert anyone here, but let's just look at it from a humanistic perspective. Even if you don't care about your own health, you might care about the health of your neighbors. Vaccination is a simple, free and effective method. We can't beat this disease now, but we can make it less dangerous. I'll bring an analogy that's not correct, cold. If a person gets a cold, there's two options. First of all, he can toughen himself up, and by doing so, he will increase his stamina to the cold. Second, he can dress warmly, it helps, but he can still freeze himself with warm clothes, and warm clothes are not a 100% guarantee. You can heat the oven, it'll be warm in the room. That's the first one about vaccination and masking. Pretty precise analogy. And the third is about social distance. Again, we can't win the cold, we can't win the cold, but we can protect ourselves from the cold, both ourselves and our neighbors. It's the same here. There's no mystery here. We know that the Riigikogu has a cross-section of the whole society. There is vaccine phobia in society and, of course, it is also in the Riigikogu; there is nothing to be surprised about. But still, we still need to think a little bit about what we're saying. No one can explain the difference between delta and alpha strains. At least if you don't understand it, it doesn't mean no one can explain it. This has been explained quite clearly and none of the specialists in this area doubt this area. No human here could explain the equations that Einstein developed the theory of relativity. Nevertheless, our universe as it works according to it. Now, I'd say if there's anything experimental, we have an experimental Riigikogu. Here we haven't been in control for three years, and sometimes we get quite interesting people here, but we respect them and hope they respect us too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U166	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U167	Yeah, yeah. Ladies and gentlemen, President-in-Office of the Council. I would advise you all to read the start of "Master and Margarita," a conversation on the park bench about science, and about what somebody's dying from. Perhaps this will shed some light on this day, where we have heard from previous speakers, in essence, an oath of allegiance to the officially declared narrative. We agree. We humbly cast the dust before you and are willing to do whatever you require of us. Inject us, fire us, let us go, humiliate us, call us stupid flatlanders! We agree with everything! But I don't agree with everything. Everyone doesn't agree with everything. I do not agree that my child will be injected without my consent, and I do not know whether in a month's time or in two months' time he may have a medical condition that he has never had before. That's the experimentation. But why don't we, Doctors, have proper statistics on who, when and what kind of vaccine was vaccinated, what his health records were before, and what his health records were after? Why don't we have it? Why do we have contracts that put all the responsibility on the recipient of the injection, not on the giver of the injection, not on the state, not on the health insurance fund? Why do we have people converted into units, statistical units, not human beings? It is then justified by health care, care for people and the fact that the health system cannot collapse. Excuse me. Martin behind my back probably can't take the floor right now, and I don't know exactly how to score these numbers, but we've probably spent hundreds of millions on testing, vaccination, vaccine buses, propaganda, posters, television commercials. After all, the money could have gone to hospitals, clinics, doctors, and nurses. No! We spend it on propaganda, wash our brains, divide society, and then blame someone for asking uncomfortable questions. Let's do it. And we'll stay on the table. We can't get any answers. We can't get any answers! We only get faith and propaganda. And it's embarrassing. This is embarrassing because Estonia no longer has a democratic society during the seven months of its government. There is a situation of obeying orders and politically acquitted ideology and infidelity to the narrative. That's where we've been in seven months. Believe me, friends, you don't want to know what happens to a country like this. This country will not endure trials. And what's incredible is that someone in this room is accusing the questioners of being a defence ally or a defence officer who's ever had a tetanus shot is now a criminal or something. You see, we all know how inhumanely, vilely and profit-seekingly large corporations have developed vaccines in the past, experimenting on women and children in Africa on the effectiveness of vaccines, their shortcomings, their side effects. Even in America in the 1950's, thousands of children remained disabled because the side effects of vaccines had not yet been adequately controlled. I'm asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U168	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U169	You see, responsibility should be the highest imperative in this hall. A sense of responsibility to our constituents. A sense of responsibility to us, to our conscience. And two things that have been said here and that have been mixed up all the time, but which are actually different things. One is vaccines, their experimentality, their impact on human health, their perhaps criminal use, and the other is our constitutional rights. Right now, our constitutional rights are being trampled underfoot. Our constitutional rights will be trampled underfoot, firing doctors, ambulance workers, defence forces, or at least planning to do so. But I have a question: if everything is so kosher, then why have the ambulance staff applied to court? Why are there family doctors who tell their patients that, you know, I'm not suggesting you get vaccinated? These are people with conscience. And that is again here, in the Estonian state, in our society, they do not dare to appear in public. They dare not say that I am not willing to vaccinate, because I am not sure that my patients will not suffer because the vaccine may at some point be more harmful than the plague. Why don't they dare? Because we've developed such a climate of fear in society. They're afraid they'll be fired. Imagine a family doctor who has a year or two to retire. He doesn't want to get into a fight, he doesn't want any trouble, he wants to roll his days slowly until he gets a pension. It's abnormal what we've got going on here. It is abnormal what is happening in Europe and in the Western hemisphere as a whole. And we also see that people rise against it. Look, if there were any picnics around Stenbock's house against our previous government, they were paid for. A couple of dozen faces who used to go there all the time. What's in front of this house right now is on the grassroots level, it's a social reaction. If such reactions occur in society, it is a sign of a very serious infection. It's spreading, it's getting worse. Because the doctor isn't responding. The doctor says they're stupid, they're lame, they don't understand that they want to be good for them. But they have a right not to realize that they want to do them good. That's something to understand. They have that right. We have a right here and a duty to take them into account. Please take this into account. We are having a dialogue, not going back and forth with a tank over completely justified issues, completely justified legislative initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U170	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. The Steering Committee has proposed to reject the draft at first reading. I will put the proposal of the commission to the vote, but before that, we must make a séance. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall put to the vote the draft proposal of the commission to reject it at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U171	The proposal was supported by 51 members of the Riigikogu, 18 against. The draft has been rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U172	Let's move on to agenda number five. First reading of Riigikogu's decision "Establishment of the Riigikogu Committee of Inquiry in April 2021 to explain the legality and proportionality of the police operation in the centre of Tallinn', submitted by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Martin Helme, member of the Riigikogu, as rapporteur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U173	Ladies and gentlemen, We will continue on the subject of fundamental rights. I come before you with the wish of our group to set up a committee of inquiry in the Riigikogu. In April this year, peaceful political demonstrations took place in the centre of Tallinn, first in Toompea at the Riigikogu and later elsewhere in the centre, mainly in the Vabaduse Square. It was the constitutionally guaranteed right of the people to express their mind or protest. The demonstrations began at the beginning of April, with a more intensive period between April 7 and April 12, but they did not actually stop after April 12. There was no official organiser in the demonstrations, which means that it was a spontaneous gathering of people, accompanied by a considerable number of people during a considerable period of time. There is no public record of any cases of violence or conflict between people or with law enforcement. Nevertheless, at one point, the Police and Border Guard decided to react extremely aggressively and threateningly by pushing peaceful citizens out of the public space, imposing fines on people on an arbitrary basis, holding them, searching them, confiscating them. There was also a mass and systematic psychological influence on people. Among other things, people were given demands and orders that were not legal and were dealt with as a demonstration of intimidation. These activities, both individually and in their collections, were illegal and, as a result, people were unable to exercise their constitutional rights or to express their senses. There is no doubt that the activities described above were intentional, intentional, coordinated and sanctioned at management level. This has also been confirmed by representatives of the Police and Border Guard Board to the media. This means that the law enforcement body and its chain of command were implemented to suppress the fundamental rights of law-abiding people. Such action represents a clear threat to democracy, the rule of law and ultimately to our constitutional order. It does not matter whether or not the views of demonstrators are accepted. It doesn't even matter if their views were clear to everyone. It is important to understand that if, at the level of government and executive power, the state adopts an attitude according to which rights guaranteed by the Constitution may be revoked at some point in time, then no one can be sure that the rights guaranteed by its laws are enforceable. This means that the rule of law will cease to function. This issue is not, by its very nature, a legal dispute which should be left to the courts to discuss. This is a fundamental issue of the rule of law and the functioning of democracy, which must necessarily be responded to at political level. It is the Riigikogu, as a representative of the people, that must be an active and substantive contributor to this issue in order to force political control over the executive power and power structures that have gone down the way of abuse of power. The task of the Riigikogu Committee of Inquiry is to find out what the decision-making and coordination process was, which led to the abolition of constitutional rights. There is a need for clarity about who, where, when and based on information made decisions. It is necessary to establish whether and to what extent the laws of the Republic of Estonia or the rules of the state agencies themselves were violated during this operation. There is a need to identify those responsible in this decision-making process so that individual persons can be punished for offences and abuses of power. The task of the committee of inquiry would be to analyse the behaviour of the government and the state institutions and to formulate how to avoid in the future the suppression of the expression of the freedoms of conscience guaranteed by the Constitution by the state authorities, to assess the damage of reputation that was caused to the Estonian state in the eyes of Estonian citizens and to the Estonian state in the eyes of the international community. It is the task of the Committee of Inquiry to put forward proposals which technical, political or frame changes would need to be made in order to avoid, in the future, analogous situations in which force structures are legally restricted to constitutional rights. That was the introduction, but I will also read to you the draft decision of the Riigikogu that we have brought to you. "The establishment of the Riigikogu Investigation Committee in April 2021 to explain the legality and proportionality of the police operation in Tallinn city centre." "On the basis of § 20 of the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Riigikogu decides: 1. Form a committee of inquiry of the Riigikogu to determine the legality and proportionality of the behaviour of the PBA and other power structures in order to prevent any arbitrary and unlawful restriction of constitutional civil liberties in the future. "The members and alternates of the Commission should then be appointed by the political groups during the procedure. And the Commission's task, that is now the most important part. "The Commission shall be responsible for: 1) to determine whether all Estonian laws were complied with in the course of the operation by the PBA, Kapo, Health Board and other bodies involved in the operation; whether disproportionate force or unjustified tactics were used during the operation, which prevented citizens from exercising their constitutional rights in practice; who and what risk assessments were drawn up, to whom they were sent and what the impact of the threat assessments on the decision-making process was; who decided on the operational tactics how it was coordinated within the authorities and between the authorities; whether, when and on the basis of what information, the members of the government participated in the decision-making process; how many extraordinary costs were incurred by the operation. 2) analyse the behaviour of the government and state institutions and formulate how to avoid in the future the suppression of the expression of the freedoms of conscience guaranteed by the Constitution by the state authorities; assess the reputational damage caused to the Estonian state in the eyes of Estonian citizens and the international community to the Estonian state. 3) put forward proposals on what technical, political or frame changes would need to be made in order to avoid similar situations in the future where force structures are legally restricted to constitutional rights." Fourth point: "The Commission shall submit the final report of its research to the Riigikogu and the public by 1 June 2022 at the latest, after which its mandate shall expire. " Perhaps it is a fixed - term commission. The service of the Commission is provided by the Chancellery of the Riigikogu and the entry into force of the decision is normal. Once again, I would like to stress that it also ties with our previous item on the agenda that it is not a question of whether someone has faith in something or not. If we do not believe that our constitutional rights are real, then Estonia is no longer a democratic state or a rule of law. There is no point in arguing about whether we really have or do not have freedom of expression. If it cannot be realised if it is wanted, then there is really no freedom of expression and there are no citizens' freedoms. This tendency we have seen with the current government, this instinctive move to the holocaust that we have seen in the behaviour of the current so-called liberal government in the face of the crisis, is truly frightening and appalling. This needs to be addressed. And in my opinion, the Riigikogu is the first institution to respond to it. I have everything for the introduction, I'd be happy to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U174	And there are. Starts with Mart Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U175	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I would like you to overconfirm that, while the purpose of this committee is to identify and identify directly the abuses and abuses that took place in April, it will also have a disciplining effect in order to prevent such practices further.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U176	Thank you. Yeah, of course. There was a speech here yesterday, which I did not listen to, but today I read in the papers that the main message of this speech was that the Riigikogu had fallen asleep and let the steering wheel go. It's not like nature likes an empty place. If the elected parliament of the people, which has the most legitimate mandate at all, takes the view that the processes in the country are not very interesting to him that we have a government here that decides matters operationally and daily is responsible for the functioning of the state, and we have an official group, and it is actually quite easy to get the impression that this government is subject to more authority than to the Riigikogu, then in fact, the principle of separation of powers that we read about in the Constitution has ceased to function at all, because this constitutional body, the Riigikogu, which receives its mandate from the people, is essentially not participating in decision-making processes. The committee of inquiry, which is, in fact, the committee with the most crispest mandate from these special committees, has been set up to deal with the political aspect of the problems that are clearly spoken of in society or are clearly burning in society, not to deal with legal nose pecking. This constantly happening and, in my opinion, the visible and elusive consolidation of freedom of expression, freedom of assembly, freedom of conscience in the Estonian country is something to which we must react forcefully. Yes, the disciplining effect that we would have [considered that] if, for example, the action of this committee turned out to be that we have a whole range of people in high positions in power structures who do not fit in because they do not understand what civil control is and they do not understand what the rule of law means for them too, i.e. they do not understand the simplest principles or that laws apply to everyone, whether you have a police general on your shoulder or not, such people should be cleansed out of our system. They're a threat to all of us. If we don't, the rot will go on, and if we do, we will take back or, say, forcefully reinstate the principles that we fought for 30 years ago, by the way, for which we went to singing parties and the Baltic Way. Maybe we can take our freedom back. I think this is such a principle, because if we do not understand that it is slipping here now, and if we do not get it on the line, in a few years' time, we will not have to be surprised if we wake up in a dystopian totalitarian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U177	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U178	Thank you. The questions you raise here are all important, but you are putting them in purely rhetorical form, while making estimates. In this sense, you are compromising this draft text, which talks about the Committee of Inquiry. You think you have the answers. That's what you declare. In the meantime, you mentioned a special committee, so be correct. However, a committee of inquiry is still being set up at the utmost need and history shows that their efficiency has been very low and, of course, they are spending resources. Tell me what efforts you have made to discuss the same matters in the Committee on Legal Affairs, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in the Committee on Security Authorities, in enquiries and in written questions. These questions are excellent for erecting in these places.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U179	First of all, the form of the special committee is the committee of inquiry, so I am very correct. Secondly, I disagree that we have the answers in advance. I'm going to read it again, which is the task of the committee of inquiry. If we had these answers now, it would be pretty good. "To clarify whether the PBA, the Kapo, the Health Board and other institutions involved in the operation complied with all Estonian laws in their activities; whether disproportionate force or unjustified tactics were used during the operation, which prevented citizens from actually exercising their constitutional rights; who and what risk assessments were prepared [--- this we have repeatedly tried to find out, there is one spooky waggling] to whom they were sent, and what the impact of the risk assessments on the decision-making process [---] is always only mistelling; who decided on the tactics of the operation, how it was coordinated within and between the authorities; whether, when and on the basis of what information, the members of the government participated in the decision-making process...'. And how much it all cost. We don't have those answers. We have repeatedly asked these questions, we have invited both the Head of the Police Department and the Ministers of the Group, the Minister of the Interior, we have spoken to the Prime Minister on this issue. These, by the way, are, I can say, more meaningful or help to clarify matters more than the questions of Question Time, where we have repeatedly put questions on this subject, and also the enquiries we have made to the Minister, also to the Minister for the Interior on this matter. So we're [questioned]. By the way, as far as the apo committee is concerned, the apo committee's mandate is not to deal with the PBGB or the Health Agency. And as far as I know, Jürgen Ligi has not been very diligent in putting together the CPO commission since he became chairman. So there's not much to study. In this sense, we have also asked all these questions in the Committee on Legal Affairs during this very draft procedure... I'm sorry! It was in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Those questions were asked. On that point, the Home Secretary's answer was that they made an internal investigation, and it showed that everything was fine. Well, it's not possible for one authority whose abuses are being investigated to investigate itself and to find out that everything is fine. This isn't civil control. In the old days, they used to say, "Kahazuha," or cover-up. So there is no way we can say that we have not tried to clarify this issue or that we have already created this clarity or that we have not taken advantage of the various other parliamentary possibilities to create this clarity. But more importantly, I will come back to what was also asked in the previous question. We need to send out a signal very clearly at political level: it is not the case that if we decide on some authority leaders... We're still getting fingered at each other. The police first pointed the finger at the Health Board that the Health Board ordered the use of force, then said something about a mysterious defense police threat assessment that I have been able to read and where there was nothing that would have said that such tactics or forces were needed. That's when they point the finger at the Health Board. If it turns out they didn't have a threat assessment, then they showed up at the ward. That stupid play we saw here this spring was pretty embarrassing. We need to send a very clear signal: it's not like if a police officer decides that today I'm gonna show these holops what toys I have here, starting with dogs, special equipment and fancy buses, that's what you can do. We all blow our ears off and accept that this is the country we live in. No, I don't. I don't agree.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-14_U180	Ladies and gentlemen, a question during the question, an answer during the answer. You can continue this discussion right now. Yes, it can, because I'm going to close the hearing right now, because it's 1:59 and 30 seconds. We've still got 30 seconds to 14:00. Let's pick up where we just left off tomorrow at 14:00.
