ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-31_U1	Dear colleagues, honourable Riigikogu, good journalists, good people of Estonia! We will begin the extraordinary session of the Riigikogu on 31 August. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Please! Urmas Reinsalu speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-31_U2	The election of the Head of State has now become more than a question of one man or woman. People everywhere in Estonia look on this side with impatience and frustration. Last day increased that feeling even more. The result of the election was followed by true, half-true and lyric accusations and cost-aar threats. With the election of the Head of State, Parliament should rise higher, unfortunately, last night it was lowered. But now the new day is a new beginning. I'm asking the public representatives to think of three things today. First of all, let's not transfer yesterday's uglyness to a candidate who can't be held responsible in any way. Secondly, when making a free choice, think about whether you want an alternative to the failure of the Riigikogu vote, to which the representatives of the people are pressured by both interest groups and media houses. And thirdly, let us give our citizens, in the midst of a crisis, even for a moment, the belief that we can be bigger than ourselves, so little and at the same time so much at the same time. The Estonian people expect us to be demandingly honest that the system of electing the President has become not a trust for society, but a confusing process. It must be repaired as a whole and done without excuses or stretches. I am counting on the contribution of the new Head of State here. And also, this campaign has been driven by some combination of the super qualities of a possible Head of State person. That's not really what people expect. The people don't want a big corporation president, they want a righteous, dignified and human leader. The lack of a campaign places great responsibility on the incoming Head of State, which our people are following in a trusting and demanding manner. I would like a beautiful anniversary of the withdrawal of Russian troops from this hall to all Estonian homes, families and Moscow as well! With these introductions, I will present the speaker with a worrying inquiry to the Prime Minister about the disorder of the management of the corona vaccines.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-31_U3	I have adopted an inquiry on behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on its further proceedings. Good colleagues, we're conducting a presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-31_U4	90 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 11. Dear colleagues, we confirmed yesterday at the beginning of the session the timetable for the work of the extraordinary session.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-31_U5	We will now proceed to the second round of election of the President of the Republic, and I ask that the Chair of the Riigikogu be presented by Oliver Kase, Chairman of the Election Committee of the Republic. Oliver Kask, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-31_U6	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! On the basis of § 17 (3) of the Act on the election of the President of the Republic, the Election Committee of the Republic registered Alar Karise as a candidate for the President of the Republic in the second round of voting with its decision taken about an hour ago. So, like yesterday's Alar Karis's name, it's been written on ballot papers. Yesterday, I presented to you the procedure for voting and determining the result of voting and voting. As the law requires, I will do so before each ballot, so now, too, but briefly. The second round of voting shall be organised in the same way as the first round of voting yesterday. We have one hour to vote. The vote will take place in the same place as yesterday. Voting in the yard takes place ten minutes before the end of the vote, i.e. 50 minutes after the beginning of the vote, next door. Two ballot boxes are in use again: one in the lobby and one outside for the vote. You can vote outside without leaving the car, but there can be no other people in the vehicle at the time of the vote. Only members of the electoral commission and persons serving the electoral commission may be present in the voting area other than members of the Riigikogu. We're still asking you to keep your distance. The Riigikogu Election Committee gives the member of the Riigikogu a voting slip with the envelope against the signature. The members of the Riigikogu must submit a valid identity document to the electoral committee for a vote. The vote shall be secret. The ballot papers shall be filled in in the voting booth. Every member of the Riigikogu continues to have one vote. A member of the Riigikogu shall mark a cross on the note in the box next to the name of the candidate if he or she votes in favour of the candidate. The member of the Riigikogu who does not wish to vote on the candidate does not mark the note. The note must be placed in the envelope, the member of the electoral committee will imprint it with the seal of the Commission and then the voter will put the envelope in the ballot box. In the event of an infringement of a ballot paper before that ballot box is placed in the ballot box, a new note shall be received in the event of the return of the corrupt note if requested to do so by the Election Commission. Before counting the votes, a member of the Riigikogu has the right to make a written protest against the violation of voting procedures. It shall be examined by the Electoral Commission and shall take its decision. After the vote has been completed and any protests have been resolved, the election committee will publicly determine the results of the vote in this Chamber. We'll count the notes in the ballot box, the invalid notes, the unmarked notes and the votes given to the candidate. I will then read the minutes of the electoral commission on the result of the vote and, if there is no protest on the reading of votes, I will announce the result of the election. A candidate shall be declared elected if at least 68 members of the Riigikogu vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-31_U7	Thank you. Do the members of the Riigikogu have any questions for the President of the Election Committee of the Republic? There are no questions. Thank you! The Election Commission of the Republic is ready to vote on the election of the President of the Republic. I ask the electoral commission here, in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, to check the ballot boxes in front of the Riigikogu and close them with a security seal. For voting, good Riigikogu, there is one hour. I give a signal of the end of the vote, after which I ask all members of the Riigikogu to gather back in the Chamber. I declare the election of the President of the Republic. Break one hour.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-31_U8	Honourable Riigikogu! Break's over. I ask you to bring the ballot boxes to the Riigikogu Hall. I ask the Republic Election Commission first to check the election boxes and also to ensure that security seals are not violated. Thank you. Looks like everything's okay. My question to the members of the Riigikogu is whether there are protests about the violation of voting procedures. There are no protests. Thank you. I'm sorry! Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-31_U9	I'll take it off. Thank you. I'm dropping the protest right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-31_U10	I must say now that, if there are protests, this is the moment. No further protests can be made, it is not the case that [no further protests] are currently being made. Is it [protest] or is it not? Mr. Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-31_U11	I have this protest: that is, there was a vote outside in the car. According to the rules in force, the car drove to the voting area and the driver left. This ensures the privacy of the voters. The protest is that the members of the electoral commission came to the door, gave Marika a note and offered this blue ballot box as a basis for writing. I don't know how to interpret it, but privacy was ruined, they were practically side by side. Perhaps there was an anonymous influence. I asked for the name of a member of the Election Commission. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] He refused to say it and passed me. This whole case is recorded in video. How do you feel about protest?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-31_U12	Thank you. Yeah, that's the protest we're gonna take as the law and order dictates. I ask for this protest to be made in writing. I declare a break of 30 minutes to review this written protest. Break 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-31_U13	Honourable Riigikogu! Break's over. Since the written protest was delayed, at the request of the Riigikogu Election Committee, I will extend the break until 14:00. Break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-31_U14	Honourable Riigikogu! The intermission for the protest is over. I ask the Chair of the Riigikogu, Oliver Kase, Chairman of the Election Committee of the Republic, to make the decision known. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-31_U15	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Riigikogu! I will read out decision No 13 of the Republic Election Commission of 31 August 2021, "Review of the protest by Kalle Grünthal." "Protest facts and procedure. On 31 August 202, the Riigikogu held the second round of voting for the election of the President of the Republic. By a protocol decision of the Election Commission of the Republic of Estonia 29.08.2021, a vote was authorised in the yard on the basis of a reasoned request. One member of the Riigikogu took advantage of this opportunity. The content of the protest. Following the vote, Riigikogu member Kalle Grünthal protested against the violation of voting procedures. According to the protest on 31 August 2021 at 13.00, a member of the Riigikogu voted in the courtyard of the Riigikogu, where the secrecy of voting was not guaranteed. A member of the Riigikogu Election Committee was present at the ballot box, where at the same time a member of the Riigikogu used as a basis for writing the ballot box. The member of the Riigikogu Election Committee watched the expression of the choice of a member of the Riigikogu, which is evidenced by the video recording made by Kalle Grünthal. Position and reasons of the Republic Election Commission. According to § 79 (4) of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, the election of the President of the Republic takes place in a secret ballot. The principle of secrecy is repeated by § 1 (3) of the Presidential Election Act. Paragraph 9 (2) of the VPVS provides that the ballot paper is to be filled in in the voting booth. The Election Committee has exceptionally promised to vote in a car in the castle yard, provided that the voter is alone in the car to fill in the note. Voting in a car does not in itself violate the voter's secrecy. On the basis of the explanations provided by the members of the committee who organised the vote and on the basis of the video material provided by the protestor, the electoral committee of the Republic determined the following: The election committee shall have the right to be present in the voting area at the time of the vote. Two members of the Election Commission of the Republic organised the vote in the yard. The vote included a separate list of voters and a separate voting box. Before the vote, the voter signed the electoral list to receive the ballot paper. For this purpose, the voter used the voting box as the basis for writing. After the signature was given, a member of the electoral commission took the ballot box out of the car. The ballot paper was filled by the voter alone in the car. There were no outsiders in the car, the members of the electoral committee could not see the voting slip being carried out. The video also shows that a member of the Riigikogu Election Commission turned his back on the hitchhiker during the execution of the note. In order to stamp the envelope and put the note in the box, the member of the selection board handed the ballot box to the voter. As a result, the vote did not infringe the principle of vote secrecy. Pursuant to § 10 (2) of the Act on the election of the President of the Republic, the Election Committee of the Republic decides: dismiss the protest. According to § 37 (2) of the Constitutional Review Judicial Act, a person who considers that a decision or act of a electoral committee relating to the election of the President of the Republic has infringed his or her rights may request the Supreme Court to revoke the decision of the Electoral Commission or declare the act of the Electoral Commission unlawful or declare the result of the vote null and void in the elections of the President of the Republic. The appeal is submitted to the Supreme Court within three days of the announcement of the decision of the Election Committee of the Republic through the Election Committee of the Republic. " Oliver Kask, President of the Republic Election Commission, has signed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-31_U16	President of the Republic Election Commission, thank you. I now ask the members of the electoral commission to start counting votes. [[The election board reads the votes.]] I now ask the Republic Election Commission to read the votes publicly. Vice-Chairman of the Election Commission, Airi Mikli, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-31_U17	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I will publicly read the votes in favour of the candidate for President of the Republic before you. Alar Karis: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72. [[Let's hear it in the hall.]] (Sustained applause) Unmarked notes. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-31_U18	Honourable Riigikogu, I ask that we allow the Riigikogu Election Commission to continue its work. Thank you! Please, Airi Mikli!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-31_U19	I also count unmarked notes: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8. There were no bad notes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-31_U20	I am asking for a record of the results of the vote to be drawn up. The President of the Election Commission of the Republic, Oliver Kasel, has the floor to announce the results of the vote. I'm gonna ask him to come to this Riigikogu chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-31_U21	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will read the minutes of the Riigikogu Election Committee on the result of voting in the second round of voting in the Riigikogu on 31 August 2021. The electoral committee of the Republic established the following figures in the counting of votes. Number of members of the Riigikogu included in the electoral list The number of members of the Riigikogu who received the ballot paper The number of members of the Riigikogu who took part in the vote just 80. Number of unsuccessful ballot papers 0. Number of unmarked (non-crossed) ballot papers.8. Number of votes cast on the candidates for the President of the Republic: Alar Karis.72. The Protocol was drawn up on 31 August 2021 at 2.17 p.m., signed by the President of the Election Commission of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-31_U22	Thank you. Good fellows! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Do you have any objections to the infringement of voting procedures? There are no protests. According to the President of the Republic Election Act, I declare a break in order to determine the result of the election and to sign the decision of the Riigikogu Election Committee on the results of the election. Break one minute. Honourable Riigikogu! Break's over. The President of the Election Committee of the Republic, Oliver Kasel, has the floor to announce the results of the election. I ask you to speak to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-31_U23	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. I shall read out Decision No 14 of the Republic Election Commission of 31 August 2021. "Identifying the results of the election of the President of the Republic in the second ballot held in the Riigikogu." "The decision has been adopted on the basis of § 13 (2) of the Presidential Election Act and is guided by § 18 (2) of the Presidential Election Act. Item 1: In the second ballot held in the Riigikogu, Alar Karis was elected President of the Republic. Point 2: The decision shall enter into force by signature. " The President of the Election Commission of the Republic has signed. I would like to congratulate the President of the Republic Election Commission, who has just been elected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-31_U24	Thank you. Mr President of the Election Commission of the Republic and Members of the Commission, thank you very much for your work, both yesterday and today. Dear colleagues, this means that we do not have a third sitting today and I would ask the newly elected President to come to the Chamber of the Riigikogu to congratulate us. Please! [[Let's hear it.]] Honourable Riigikogu, the session is not yet closed. Honourable Riigikogu, good session followers! I now ask for the President-elect of the Riigikogu's speech chair and the Director of the Estonian National Museum Alar Karise. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-31_U25	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I thank everyone who voted for me, and I understand those who did not. But I promise that as President I will be a good partner for the Riigikogu and all the dialogues as a good partner for all political groups and political forces. Once again, thank you so much! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-31_U26	Thank you. Dear colleagues, thank you very much. The sitting is adjourned. Thank you.
