ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U1	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the Monday session of the 16th working week of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. It's a pleasure to see you all here. I wish us all a secure Riigikogu session. The members of the Riigikogu now have the opportunity to hand over drafts and questions. I would like the Riigikogu's speech chair Marko Mihkelson.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U2	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, By the Committee on Foreign Affairs, allow me to give two draft decisions to the proceedings of the Riigikogu. Firstly, a draft amendment to the decision of the Riigikogu on the establishment of the Estonian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Secondly, a draft amendment to the decision of the Riigikogu "Construction of the Estonian delegation of the Interparliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Latvia." The proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu is to set the deadline for the submission of amendments to both drafts at 5.15 p.m. on Wednesday 2 June 2021. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] The text of the draft has been transmitted digitally.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U3	Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu for a speech chair in Reuben Kaalepi.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U4	Honourable Riigikogu! Among the architectural heritage of Estonia is our rich farm architecture, which has largely survived to our day in many parts of Estonia. At the same time, the structure must be considered unique in the architectural history of the world. Over the years, many art historians and conservationists have pointed out that the architecture of the farm is inadequately protected in Estonia. For example, among 5277 monuments in Estonia, only 21 terrace buildings have been protected, 11 of which are located in the village of Koguva in Muhu county. As a result, a large part of the valuable Estonian architectural heritage has been decomposed, decomposed or unknowingly rebuilt. The pristine trenches that remain in the ruins and have collapsed along many southern Estonian roads are not isolated cases, but a harsh reality. Unfortunately, in many cases, the owner's lack of awareness of the value and nature of the building has also damaged the legacy. In the light of these circumstances, on behalf of seven members of the Riigikogu, I present an inquiry to the Minister of Culture concerning the value and protection of the farm architecture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U5	Riigikogu speech chair Jaak Valge, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U6	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour, on behalf of the EKRE Group, to hand over a draft amending the law on the organisation of local government in such a way as to enable local councils to hold referendums and the local people themselves to launch referendums on the basis of a popular initiative. The referendum, ladies and gentlemen, allows citizens to shape politics directly, and, as you know, one of the instruments of democracy. Referendums help to create a coherent society and avoid alienating politicians and policies. Organising them at local government level to decide on local life issues strengthens local identity and increases the legitimacy of decisions. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I'll tell Professor Lotman that I think about legitimacy in the sense of Max Weber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U7	A procedural question. Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U8	Thank you very much. Mr President, would it be possible to turn a little more sound? In the last benches, it is quite difficult to understand, especially when a speaker talks through a mask or when colleagues communicate emotionally in the hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U9	Thank you. To this latter, I will try harder to draw attention and, of course, also ask my fellow officials, if possible, to increase the volume. Of course, it is important that we all have a clear and good dictation. So let's try our best. Please ask the representative of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U10	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching four draft laws today. Firstly, the draft act ratifying the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the facilitation and protection of investments. The Government of the Republic shall be represented by the Minister of Foreign Affairs in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Secondly, the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act and the Consumer Protection Act (translation of digital content, consumer sales and amended consumer rights directives). In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Justice. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Employment Contracts Act and the Tax Administration Act. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Health and Labour when the bill is being processed in the Riigikogu. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Income Tax Act. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. All four draft laws have been transmitted electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U11	Thank you. There's no more calls. On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted seven drafts and one inquiry, and the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Good colleagues, we're conducting a presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U12	84 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 17. Let's get to the agenda this week. Here is also a clarification: namely, the Committee on Culture has proposed that the 9th item on the agenda of the Wednesday session of this working week be excluded from the agenda, the debate on the Education Development Plan 2021 to 2035. Together with this amendment, we should go to the vote, but before that, procedural issues must also be examined. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U13	Thank you, Sir...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U14	I'm sorry for a moment. [[It's ringing the bell.]] Thank you. Please, Indrek!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U15	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I really have a question about the same thing that the Committee on Culture has actually already proposed. When planning the working week, I also sent a letter to the Head of the Riigikogu with the corresponding content, so that we do not plan strategy papers after each other into the late hours of Wednesday. It seems to have become a tradition lately. Of course, it is particularly offensive to look at this in the context that the government has just begun to cut in precisely the same areas that we are pushing the debate into Wednesday night: culture, education, etc. Can we make a longer-term agreement that the Board of the Riigikogu, when preparing the work plan of the Riigikogu, is already proactively trying to avoid such situations?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U16	Thank you, questioner! Answer. We have also discussed the issue of strategy papers in the Bureau. The problem is when there's a lot of them and they're moving into late hours. We must consider, however, that we have three weeks left before the sitting-free period begins. Of course, the Bureau can work even better with the lead committees, and that is what we are doing. Today's proposal by the Committee on Culture will alleviate the situation on Wednesday this week. However, this does not mean that we may not have more than one strategy paper on the next Wednesday. We also discussed the agenda for the Bureau on 2 June, and it seemed consensual to the Bureau that it would be right to do the third readings first, then the others and then the first readings. Of course, this order can always be changed; any political group can make a proposal in this Chamber. But I agree and we will try this focus, as you said, so that they do not remain in such late hours and do not have as many, follow as possible, and cooperate with the committees. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U17	Good manager! I have an analogous question. You've put three fat chops on Wednesday night. It's right to take out one of those chopsticks. I would remind you that we have already been offered this carbonate once, and now it has been taken again. Is this a coincidence or is this educational development plan not so important that now...?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U18	Thank you. In the management board of the Riigikogu, we certainly do not appreciate whether something is important or not. But it's clear that the strategy papers of three pieces one day, it's a little too much. Let's hope we have a chance to disperse a little bit. The Committee on Culture has proposed this. This, of course, will be decided by the Riigikogu in plenary whether this is a good proposal or not. But your questioning is similar to that of Indrek Island: it's a bit much. Let's try not to have so many. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U19	Thank you. Is it known why the Committee on Culture decided to put this item on the agenda for the first time and then remove it from the agenda? There must be a reason. Was the board interested in this? Since these are many times such behaviours in development plans, it seems to be becoming a pattern and a very unpleasant pattern. The big hall isn't taken seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U20	Thank you. The Committee on Culture has also sent a letter on behalf of its Chair today, and the second paragraph of this letter says that the Committee on Culture asks that, should the plenary support this proposal, the debate on the education development plan would be placed on the agenda of the plenary on 9 June among the first items in order to allow a meaningful and thorough discussion of the development plan. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U21	Thank you, good Chairman! I know there are 30, 40 or 50 of these development plans together. Couldn't we perhaps have a summer seminar where we could do these development plans three days in a row? Other institutions call it summer days, but we'd have a seminar like this with a decent icebreaker.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U22	Thank you. I believe that members of the Riigikogu can make proposals to do even more work outside the plenary sessions within the framework of development plans, if that is their wish, so that it cannot be banned in any way. Indrek Saar, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U23	Thank you. First of all, I think that the irony in Tarmo Kruusimäe is inappropriate in this context. He also experienced two weeks ago that, for example, the development plan for the youth field we discussed here after midnight. I think that young people themselves, some of whom were involved in this process, would have been happy to follow this debate, but some had to go to school in the morning. This often applies to these strategy papers that the circle of people who have been involved in the development of those who take these strategy papers seriously and set up their own sectoral activities according to them is very large, often significantly larger than the number of people who live to improve one or another bill. It would therefore make sense to find a time for their discussions so that people can follow them. And that's why I'm worried when these things get into late Wednesdays or early Thursdays classes and pile up on top of everything else. Not to mention that we also see that, although the working capacity of the Riigikogu is, of course, unlimited, a certain drop in quality may occur occasionally during these discussions in the morning hours. I would like cultural and educational issues to be discussed with full attention and as much as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U24	As I said, there has been an approach that we do thirds, then others and then first readings, and then there are strategy papers. However, this does not mean that we cannot do the first discussion of development plans or strategy papers either. To consider which is more important, which is less important, I think, is very difficult, if not impossible. If a political group proposes redrafting the agenda, then this opportunity will always be yours, good groups. Peter Ernits, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U25	I'm gonna keep on saying it's still like a pattern. Mr President may say that none of the things here are more important than the other, but if the development plans concern the activities of an area over long years, I think it is more important than the adoption of one or the other draft, which is also important. And now they are placed purposefully somewhere in the shadow of the night, in the shadow of darkness, and even now here the development plans of culture and Estonian language are hidden by the night. I'd like to discuss them sober, with a clear head. Why is that? You could put those third readings at the end when your head doesn't have to be so clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U26	Thank you. I think the architects of this Riigikogu building were thinking about this a hundred years ago. One idea in the case of this building, where these triangular elements are present, was that the idea of a member of the Riigikogu must be sharp, it must not be dizzy or sluggish. I believe that this applies at any time when a member of the Riigikogu works here. But once again, Mr Ernits, I will also say to you: if there is a desire to discuss the development plans in a different rhythm, if it is written on this agenda, the political groups can make this proposal. In this case, this agenda, which has been distributed to you, the honourable Riigikogu, was a consensual decision of the Riigikogu Board. But the truth is that the same topics we discussed in the Bureau and the decision was what is currently on your table as a proposal. Indrek Saar, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U27	Thank you. In the light of the proposal made by the Committee on Culture, where the development plan for education is asked to be moved to the next week, I have the Socialist Group's proposal to bring agenda items 10 on Wednesday, the Estonian Language Development Plan and agenda item 11 on the implementation of the fundamentals of cultural policy until 2020 as a first and second item on Wednesday, respectively.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U28	Thank you. Now we have another proposal to change the agenda, I would like to draw the attention of the Riigikogu. This was proposed by Indrek Saar, who said it was a proposal by the Group of the Social Democratic Party: agenda items 10 and 11 on Wednesday, 2 June, to be placed on agenda items 1 and 2. This means that the other items will all shift backwards. Let's see if there are any other suggestions. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U29	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It's so exciting to be back in the hall. The mid-group does not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U30	I understand that this was about the Social Democratic Party Group's proposal. Got it. If one political group does not support this proposal, it will fall away. Dear colleagues, let's start preparing the voting on the agenda. Dear colleagues, can we go to the vote? Together with the proposal of the Committee on Culture, I shall vote on the approval of the 16th working week agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U31	With the result of 63 votes against 10 and 11 abstentions, this week's agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U32	We are moving to the first item on the agenda: the first reading of the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs, 392. I ask for a presentation of Vilja Toomas, member of the Legal Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu Chair. Please! Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is too much noise in the hall. Please respect the waitress and please respect those who wish to hear this report in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Here's what I'm gonna introduce to you...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U34	Honourable waitress! The chairman of the meeting cannot do his job, so I, the good members of the Riigikogu, ask for your help. Help the President of the sitting, otherwise no one will hear the waitress. Let's not go any further, because it seems that there are important reports in this Chamber. Let's not interrupt, either you or I, my colleagues. Now, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U35	Mikhail Lotman has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U36	Mikhail Lotman, procedural question. A microphone for Mikhail Lotman, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U37	Dear Chairman, can't the waitress turn the remote microphone a little louder because it really is very bad to hear?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U38	I'm sorry, I don't know how to turn it up.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U39	Dear Mikhail Lotman, we will do our best. And if it doesn't change within the next minute, please give a procedural signal again. A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U40	Thank you. I'll start over then. Next, I would like to introduce you to the Legal Affairs Committee, including the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, initiated on 12 May, by number 392. The aim of the draft is to increase independence and transparency in the execution of requests for communication data to be collected in criminal proceedings. To this end, the Code of Criminal Procedure is aligned with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union No C-746/18 of 2 March, which found that the prosecutor's office cannot be regarded as an independent body for the authorisation of requests for data referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 of § 1111 of the Electronic Communications Act. According to the amendment, these permits would be granted by a court in the future, and the need to take into account the gravity and nature of the crime and the related interference with personal rights when granting permits. The target groups affected by the changes are the prosecutor's office and courts. The draft and explanatory memorandum have been prepared by the Committee on Legal Affairs in cooperation with Markus Kärner, Deputy Chancellor of Criminal Policy at the Ministry of Justice, and with Markko Künnapu, adviser to the Department of Criminal Law and Procedure. The amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure brings Estonian law into line with the conditions of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. In that judgment, the Court of Justice of the European Union, responding to a question raised in the request for a preliminary ruling from the Supreme Court concerning the role and independence of the Public Prosecutor's Office when granting permissions for requests for communications information, found that the prosecutor's office, as its own criminal authority and in court, cannot be independent in granting those authorisations. The Code also complements the requirement that, in addition to the unavoidable need for the authorisation of communications data, account should be taken of the gravity and nature of the crime and the personal rights interference involved in the request. In particular, the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union was motivated by a decree issued by the Criminal Chamber of the Supreme Court on 12 November 2018 requesting a preliminary ruling from the Court of Justice of the European Union and asking the court a number of questions that I am not reading to you here, they are all there and you can consult them in the explanatory memorandum. The explanatory memorandum also sets out the answers given by the Court of Justice of the European Union to those questions which, as I said, they did on 2 March, including their decision C-746/18. Following the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, it is necessary to amend the Code of Criminal Procedure and to replace the request for permission from the prosecutor's office by a request for permission from the court. Pursuant to the amendment of the law, permissions for further requests for communications data would be granted by a court at the request of the prosecutor. The draft itself is relatively short, if that is the case, because it amends one section of the Code of Criminal Procedure, or § 901. But before I introduce the content of the draft to you at length, I will simply point out or remind you that § 1111 of the current Electronic Communications Act is intended to impose on communications undertakings the obligation to maintain the data generated by the provision of a communication service. Paragraph 1111 (2) of the Electronic Communications Act provides for the obligation to store data for telephone and mobile telephone services and for the provider of the telephone network and mobile telephone network services and regulates the retention of certain data. You also have the data collected and stored in the explanatory memorandum. For the sake of saving time, I'm not going to read it to you. In accordance with subsection 3 of the same section, an Internet connection, electronic mail and internet telephony service provider is required to keep certain specific data, the list of which is given here. Why am I pointing that out? This amendment, in some paragraphs of this section, refers to two paragraphs of one of the sections of the Electronic Communications Act. Now, this bill itself. What will the draft change? The regulation of § 901 (1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure will not change as compared to the law in force, but the wording of the paragraph will be corrected. Paragraph 901 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure amends the existing regulation. According to the current law, an investigation authority may have requested the information provided for in § 91 (1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure and provided for in § 1111 (2) and (3) of the Electronic Communications Act, with the permission of the Prosecutor's Office. The draft provides for a request from the prosecutor's office and the authorisation of the investigating judge, the authorisation of the court in court proceedings, as a prerequisite for such a request. Paragraph 901 (3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure states that the order of the investigating judge and the order of the court to settle the application of the prosecutor's office may be drafted as a headline at the request of the prosecutor's office. Paragraph 4 is added to the criterion that, when granting the authorisation provided for in § 901 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, account must be taken, in accordance with the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, of the gravity and nature of the crime and of the personal rights interference caused by the request. Paragraph 5 of this section states that, in cases of urgency where the formalisation of the investigating judge's or court's authorisation is not possible in due time, the request referred to in § 901 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure may be made on the basis of an authorisation issued by the prosecutor's office in a manner which is capable of being reproduced. In such a case, the investigating judge shall be informed through the prosecutor's office within the first working day following the date on which the request was made. The investigating judge shall decide on the admissibility of the request by means of a regulation which may be drafted as a headline by a regulation of the Prosecutor's Office. Paragraph 91 (5) and (6) of the Code of Criminal Procedure sets an example of the regulation and aims to allow for the accelerated authorisation of the request for communication data in urgent cases. In such a case, the court must carry out an ex post assessment of the merits of the authorisation. The Legal Affairs Committee has also decided to submit the draft for publication to the Supreme Court, county and circuit courts, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Estonian Bar Association, the Office of the Chancellor of Justice and the Faculty of Law of the University of Tartu. Okay. That was the content of the bill. Now I will try to give you an overview of the discussions in the Committee on Legal Affairs in the remainder of the time, of how we got this draft started and prepared it for the first reading. The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the procedure at three regular meetings and at one extraordinary meeting. The first meeting took place on Tuesday, 4 May. Members and officials of the Committee on Legal Affairs were present at the meeting, and Mr Maris Lauri, Minister of Justice, Mr Markus Kärner, Deputy Chancellor of Criminal Policy at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Astrid Asi, President of the Harju County Court, Mr Andres Parmas, the Attorney General of the State, Oliver Nääs and Mr Elmer Muna, as well as the Chief Prosecutor of the State, Taavi Pern, were invited to attend the meeting. Maris Lauri first gave an overview and justified the need to initiate such a draft. He had the same arguments and considerations that I presented to you when presenting the purpose of the draft. I'm not gonna go over Maris Lauri again. Maris Lauri's request was that the Committee on Legal Affairs initiate this draft and deal with it in an accelerated manner. Markus Kärner explained in more detail the content of the draft and the need to present it more widely and also introduced existing European Union legislation, which primarily concerns communication data and its storage and use for investigative purposes. State Attorney General Andres Parmas said that the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union is a reality and therefore changes are needed. He added that strategic discussions were needed to understand what the Estonian criminal procedure model would have to be in the future, so that the procedure would still be effective and crimes could be discovered in practice. The representatives of the Bar Oliver Nääs and Elmer Muna confirmed that the draft is a step in the right direction and is positive that the right to authorisation will be granted to the unemployed in the future, but the main problem in the opinion of the Bar Association was that the draft does not define the concept of serious crime in national law. Nor does it define in a very specific way the cases in which communication data may be collected. I can tell you in advance that on this subject we also discussed the Commission's next sittings, but we decided that, specifically, with proposals on which data to collect, which data may be issued and what we consider to be a serious crime, we will deal with when we have to complete the first reading of the draft today, between the first reading and the second reading. Okay. That concludes the first or 4 May session of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Jaanus Karilaid suggested that we continue to prepare and discuss this draft in the Commission on 10 May. On 10 May, the meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs began with the statement by Jaanus Karilaiu that the most specific problem in relation to this draft has been raised by the President of the Harju County Court, Astrid Siim, who has claimed that if the permissions for requests for communication data are granted by a court at the request of the prosecutor's office in a pre-trial procedure, five to seven investigating judges are missing from all over Estonia in order to cope with the burden of these changes, four judges are absent from the Tallinn County Court alone with staff, i.e. a lawyer and a secretary. Jaanus Karilaid also said that the explanatory memorandum did not provide an answer where to find the resources that were lacking. Mr Kärner replied to the problem raised by Karilaiu that the Ministry of Justice is doing everything for itself, but it is not possible to gain this resource quickly, so that it is suitable for everyone, and there are no good alternatives. Discussions on these issues continued. At this meeting of the Commission, the chairman of the committee, Jaanus Karilaid, decided that an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs would be held the following day, 11 May, in which the initiation of the draft would be discussed specifically. He has just asked the Ministry of Justice, in the meantime, to look for a solution to the issue of judicial resources. This extraordinary meeting took place on 11 May and Jaanus Karilaid informed that the resource problem had been solved. Additional expenditure may be needed for this year will be covered by the budget of the Ministry of Justice for the current year and additional resources will be included in the national budget for the following years. The need for these funds is probably not very high this year either. If we adopt this draft in the spring or in the summer, and the courts are able to launch a competition to find a judge, these judges would not be able to start working either way before autumn. This resource need, which initially amounted to half a million for that year, is unlikely to be so high and, as a result, this need for additional resources can be covered, if necessary, from the resources of this financial year. The Commission also decided that the two principles that this year will cover this amount from the available resources and that in the following year it will be taken into account in full in the expenditure of the new state budget should be specifically fixed in the explanatory memorandum. It also exists in the current explanatory memorandum and is written in it. The Commission decided to initiate a corresponding draft on 12 June. The third meeting of the Commission was held on 17 May. My time is running out. The Commission decided to send it to first reading and, since the content had already been examined in advance, a long discussion was no longer held in the Commission. Procedural decisions were taken: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 31 May 2021 (the decision was consensual), to appoint Mr Toomas as rapporteur (also consensually), to propose that the first reading be closed (also supported by consensus) and to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 10 a.m. on 3 June (including by consensus all members of the Commission). Well, I almost managed to report the Commission's minutes to you. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U41	Thank you. You have at least one question. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U42	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! I understand that we all want to be in a single, say, legal space in Europe, which perhaps means that some countries are only dealing with the questioning of these data in the case of serious crimes, which are terrorism and money laundering, but the Estonian police are already saying that there are others here. Should we, through Visit Estonia, inform the people who arrive here that your data may later be taken out in this country, for example when travelling on a bus without a ticket? Or is it also in line with the fact that many countries already want only personalised call cards, that it is no longer possible? It must have been Romania and there were other countries. How, though, can we make this person feel the same way? Then we should warn the others. Has this been mentioned in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U43	The Commission was not so specific about this issue. However, I hope the Member of the Commission also knows that, in fact, there is no common understanding within the European Union as to whether such electronic communications data should be stored at all, not to mention the regulation of permits. Some countries, such as France and Germany, already have the same system and regulation that we now want to introduce with this draft, so that, at the request of the prosecutor, they are authorised by the court. That is why we are moving in the right direction. But the question is, should we inform you that we may be able to collect these data, do not commit a crime, I say so, then no one will read your data or ask them out of anywhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U44	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U45	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I have a question not about the content, but about the procedure. If this is such an important draft, why did it not come to the Riigikogu by the government, why did the Commission have to do it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U46	I understand that this was actually a request from the Ministry, and the government supports it. This bill has passed through the government, but we've had a series of sessions until the end of the summer session, and if the government had come up with the bill, it would have taken us a while. The Committee on Legal Affairs was able to initiate it more quickly and had the hope of doing three readings. Why is it urgent? The urgency is simply because the preliminary ruling of the European Court of Justice has recognised the existing authorisation procedure as contrary to European legislation, i.e. the 2002 Directive and also to some articles of the European Charter of Fundamental Rights. For example, if, for the purposes of criminal proceedings, this information is requested from the old communications company, it may prove to be contrary to the law and, in fact, it is very easy for lawyers to challenge it in court and the processing of our crimes, criminal offences, to be dragged down and complicated. Therefore, the Ministry of Justice asked the Legal Affairs Committee whether it could be acted as a matter of urgency. Let us be honest, the drafts launched by the Commission can be dealt with as a matter of urgency, because the positions of the government are already known, etc. That was, in my opinion, the reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U47	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U48	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! Of course, I can say that it is only enough that you are sitting next to a criminally punished person, and there may already be a reason to just look at the connection that the same place has been held. I've given it an example. One part is how these requests are met, the one asking them. It is clear and regulated. But it's a different nature. After all, when he was created, we had a problem with misinformation and with terrorism and, of course, with corruption. Should it remain for serious crimes in Estonia as well? We hear the police say it's actually very good to position everyone and put them somewhere. It's enough for a lawyer to give this material somewhere, if the journalists are already making their own rhetoric about it. And we know that once the public has condemned it, what else can the court do? He does what he does, but it doesn't save his reputation anymore. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I think it's a pretty big constitutional spike.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U49	I would like to answer this question in this way: that is why I said that the combined effect of certain articles of the European directive and also of the Charter of Fundamental Rights is indeed also being seen as a violation of fundamental rights. But I would point out that, under the Electronic Communications Act, I don't remember the contents of this section from the head, calls, e-mails, text messages, whatever the contents of which are not disclosed. I didn't start reading it, it's a long list, it would have been long. Publicized, retrieved only the data from the number that happened to the number, what happened to the e-mail addresses, etc. Actually, you don't get the contents. But as far as serious crimes are concerned, as you can remember, there was a debate in the committee on the fact that we have crimes and crimes. We can base ourselves on a very broad view that everything that is already a crime could be asked for and obtained from all these data. As you remember, this was the final debate between the two readings. We expect [opinions] from those I read out from the eight institutions to whom we sent a request for an opinion. We will be able to review the general opinions at the next Commission meeting, and then we will be able to define this serious crime. I do not think the European Union has the right to define exactly what we consider to be a serious crime either. For example, representatives of the prosecutor's office (or even the Attorney General) also gave an example in a committee meeting that sometimes we can also consider threats on the phone to be a serious crime. Sometimes you only need to identify it, you also need to recover the data, who called whom, who made these inquiries or, more specifically, threatened them. So let's think together!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U50	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U51	Good manager! Good waitress! It is clear that if the Riigikogu initiates, which should actually be normal, it can go as loosely as the government does not have to do these coordination rounds and pass this huge long gauntlet. On the one hand, I like it. There could be much more of these things so that the Riigikogu would show that it is not a real rubber stamp. On the other hand, I ask the Committee on Legal Affairs in terms of internal life: how many situations, where the baby is already coming and there is an urgent need to formalise the marriage, are there still waiting?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U52	Thank you! I don't have a pretty big and thorough view of it. On these issues, which are already pending in the Commission, I could not... Yeah, okay, that's not the expression I use in the Riigikogu board, but all right. In itself, the urgent [drafts], where time pushes harder, are not in the process according to my memory. The Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee knows exactly what's gotten there and what's not. But as far as I know, there aren't that many. But there was nothing to be done here either, because on 2 March this preliminary ruling of the European Court of Justice came and that time has not been so long. This had to be responded, just as the State Attorney General asked that it be urgent, or the handling of otherwise serious crimes would stop. As I said, according to the current legal order, it is very easy for lawyers to challenge these requests for communications data issued by prosecutors. This case also began with a specific case that the Supreme Court issued a decree and asked the European Court of Justice for a preliminary ruling.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U53	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U54	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I still remember those times when the European Union wrote down different directives, where even the curvature and length of the banana were determined. The shops closed because they were unable to meet the hygiene requirements, and then later it became apparent that there was no need to comply with so many of them because the choice had been left. Faithful officials have written us what we must do by referring to European directives. My question is that you actually told a good colleague here, Tarmo Kruusimägi, that the European Union directive says so and the judgment says so. How much is it then, the independence and independence of Estonia, which are timeless and inalienable according to § 1, if we always base ourselves on European directives?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U55	Thank you. I do not understand this comparison and fear exactly in the context of this draft, because, firstly, the European Union directive is much wider than 2002; it does not spell out exactly how the Member State must put its law in place and how to regulate it. It was said that when communication data is collected and requested, they are used in criminal proceedings, these permits must be issued by an independent body, an independent institution. It is, of course, the internal affairs of each country that it considers to be an independent institution. In this case, the Supreme Court had doubts that the issuing of permits in this form might not fulfil this requirement of independence, and it introduced this concept of court. But the shape of a banana really has nothing to do with it. In fact, this authorisation was analysed, and the use of electronic communications data was analysed by a lawyer of the European Court of Justice in conjunction with certain articles of the European Union directive of 2002 and the European Charter of Fundamental Rights and, in this context, considered that our regulation might not be in line with the acts that I am talking about. However, this judgment does not state how the Republic of Estonia should solve its independence problem in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U56	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U57	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, According to this draft, these permits will be issued by the investigating judge. Please explain both to all Members of the Riigikogu, so that they can be understood as well as to all people who are watching this session, in which case the investigating judge will be different from the ordinary judge or, for example, the on-call judge.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U58	Yes, I could now say that we did not dissect the nature and working processes of the various judges in the Commission, but it makes sense that if these communications are collected for pre-trial investigation at the first stage, then the investigating judge will be contacted. If the trial is already under way, they can also be extradited, at the request of the prosecutor, let's just say, in your sense, a judge, a investigating judge in that sense. But indeed, so thoroughly we did not deal with the role and function of the various judges.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U59	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U60	Honourable Chairman! Honourable waitress! You made a very interesting statement here just a moment ago. We have been assured for years, from the beginning of the Republic, that the prosecutor's office is honest and balanced and impartial and independent. But you said that the European Union is calling for these actions, surveillance activities, to be handed over to an independent body, or court. It is clear from this that the Estonian prosecutor's office is not independent. Perhaps you will open up this problem, which we are therefore facing in the eyes of both the government, the Commission and the European Commission. Please tell us why our DA's office is not independent, but the courts are.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U61	Thank you. I'm trying, though I'm saying I didn't say that. I said that the court is indeed the most independent institution, the body in the Republic of Estonia, and I think that this is the way to talk about it all over the world. But as far as the independence of the prosecutor's office is concerned, he is taking part in the preliminary investigation process and, at the same time, there is also a national prosecutor in the further process. In such cases, the prosecutor may be interested in influencing the work of his national prosecutor. That is its independence [context]. I have never argued, and I do not believe that the prosecutor's office of the Republic of Estonia is independent. However, in this context, that he represents the national prosecutor at the same time in the process and is also a pre-governancer, in this relationship it may be that he is not considered to be quite independent. Only in this context.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U62	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U63	Good manager! I'm not going to get involved, but I'm going to ask you this. We should look and consider this from all sides. It is urgently needed now, and everything is clear. But what happens if we do not approve this bill, for example? What happens to the Republic of Estonia, to the so-called criminal world of Estonia, or to its connection, how much damage would damage the Estonian state, etc.? Have you considered this option, the scenario of how much we lose if we go the so-called long way through the government and...?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U64	Thank you. I've already branded this subject before, which could happen. What may happen is that our good lawyers are contesting all the permits issued by prosecutors to obtain data from the various electronic communications devices stored by them for the purposes of criminal proceedings. These permits could be revoked and would simply prolong the criminal proceedings process and create a lot of confusion. But how much are these losses or how can they be assessed? Undoubtedly, these losses will be great if the court's work is slowed down and justice is prolonged. We always say that we want faster processing, etc. This is the most direct damage if the licences issued in accordance with this procedure may be challenged in court.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U65	Good waitress, there are more questions for you. Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U66	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress! I'm pushing my benchmate's question now. You told him, in answer, that different decisions could be challenged if this law was not passed. But you can't go into a dispute on the basis of a law that's in force. If this law is not passed, then there is no basis for appeal. There is a very profound contradiction in my understanding.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U67	On the contrary, that is what I am trying to say: if the existing legal regime were to remain in force, the lawyers are so clever that they have certainly read the preliminary ruling of the European Court of Justice, which challenges such a procedure for issuing permits, and that is why they would challenge it. On the contrary, the current regime will be challenged in court, which has been the case so far, which is why we came to the European Court of Justice in the first place.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U68	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Thank you very much. Do you want to open negotiations? I don't see any negotiation requests, so I won't open them either. It is now the case that the lead committee has proposed that the first reading of draft 392 be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 3 June at 10 a.m. The first reading is closed and the first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U69	We will move to the second item on the agenda: Rene Koka, Ruuben Kaalepi, Kert Kingo, Jaak Valge, Paul Puustusmaa, Martin Helme, Henn Põlluaasa and Peeter Ernitsa's inquiry into the use of disproportionate force against peaceful protestors on 14 April 2021 (No 66). Prime Minister Kaja Kallas will answer the question. I ask the representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu, a member of the Riigikogu, Peeter Ernitsa, to introduce his inquiry to the Estonian public. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U70	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! It's been two months since we made this request. At that time, the Prime Minister had been in power for two and a half months, and now it is four and a half months. This was due to what took place at the end of the first decade in April when Toompea was barricaded and in front of the Dome Church on the 11th, Sunday, bloodhounds barked and police officers armed to the teeth had surrounded Toompea. Somewhere the cello artist was playing, somewhere the kids were with their parents. It was a beautiful day. People had long protested against the establishment of a police state. You could say that maybe the people didn't know and that the batons weren't flashing, and the tear gas didn't fly, either, what kind of police state is that? But the people were worried and had been on the streets and on Toompea for weeks before we asked questions. And now, as if to show that the Reform Party government actually has a plan to establish a police state, bloodhounds were brought to the streets of the riot police armed to the teeth. It seemed absolutely unbelievable. Why do all this? Consequently, we formulated some questions. I don't read all of them. I read some of them. Do you have any information that demonstrations on Toompea threaten the security of the Estonian state? By the way, the confusions are very big to this day, so what really happened? The Prime Minister has also assured me and us repeatedly that he did not give his order. I don't think he did, but the police chief, Police General Vaher has admitted to us that on the evening of April 7, it was a Wednesday day, he informed the esteemed prime minister that he wanted to bring bloodhounds and riot police and metal fences to Toompea. But the chief of police said the Prime Minister allegedly asked for an extension. Thursday, when you remember, the Prime Minister introduced his white book to us here. It would have been very ugly to have the bloodhounds barking in front of Toompea Castle and the riot police standing in front of the White Paper. Well, there was an extension. I don't know if that was the case, but that's what Police General Vaher told us here. There are a few more questions. What is important is: do you think, Prime Minister, that the police used disproportionate force against the peaceful people? And what is more: if you would explain to us whether and on the basis of which specific legislation the medical emergency has been declared? We all know (in my time I was also a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs) that there is an emergency and an emergency, and now this special medical arrangement at the beginning of April. But we await with joy and patience, for two months we have been waiting for the Prime Minister's answers to our questions. We're a little confused, and so are the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U71	I now ask Prime Minister Kaja Kallas to answer the question to the Riigikogu Chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U72	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good heirs! I'll start with the answers right now. First of all: "Do you have any information that demonstrations on Toompea threaten the security of the Estonian state? " No, it's not. Second, "based on what information did the police change their strategy last Sunday and bring large police forces to the streets? " The police choose their tactics according to the situation: whether the police have a specific partner as an organiser of a public meeting, what the past behaviour of participants in a public meeting has been, etc. The pre-information collected by the police said that Sunday had gone by the date of its inquiry in April, that people would gather more than earlier protests and that the risk of violating both restrictions and other rules was higher than before. But the chief of crisis aid at the North Prefecture was familiar with the choice of police tactics, and it was coordinated with both the Prefect of the North and the Director General. Third: "Who ordered large police forces to be brought to the streets among them by riot police and dogs? " First of all, "large police forces" are, of course, completely subjective [assessment]. But the police units were not involved in ensuring the security of public meetings held in Toompea and Vabaduse Square. Because of police tactics, it may have been necessary to involve a larger number of policemen at certain moments. Outside were the same police units that ensure our security on a daily basis, i.e. patrol policemen, rapid reactioners that can be seen in the old town every weekend, among other things, as well as regional policemen and youth policemen who have received further training for crisis situations. Due to different functions, some policemen use green uniforms. Seeing police officers in uniforms of a different colour, along with their customary uniforms, does not mean that they are Special Forces. The chief of crisis aid at the North Prefecture, as I have already said, was familiar with the choice of police tactics, and it was in agreement with both the Prefect of the North and the Director General. Fourth: How many policemen, including special forces, were brought to Toompea and its surroundings on the streets? " The number of police officers involved varied almost at all times. When the police were not on Toompea, they monitored the COVID restrictions elsewhere in Tallinn. Fifth: "Do you think that the police have made disproportionate use of force against the peaceful people? " No, it's not. Sixth: "Toompea's central slogan for demonstrations has been "No police state! " By bringing out the great police forces, do you want to confirm that the fears of the people are true and that your exclusion actually builds a police state? " No one is building a police state in Estonia. Seventh: "Does playing the cello Estonian anthem endanger the security of the Estonian state? " No danger. Eighth: "Are families with small children participating in protests a threat to Estonia's constitutional order? " No, it's not. Ninth: "Who and under what specific legislation has announced the medical emergency referred to by the Minister of the Interior? "In accordance with Order No 1.1-1/20/52 of the Director-General of the Health Board of 10 November 2020 "Implementing the level of preparedness of emergency care, in-patient specialist medical care and general medical care providers and the tasks of emergency response or emergency response', and given that an emergency situation has developed in the field of health care, it has been possible to implement health preparedness level 2 throughout the territory of the Republic of Estonia. I would point out that this order of the Director-General is from 10 November 2020, when the Minister of the Interior was from EKRE and EKRE was also in government. Health Preparedness Level No 2 can be established by the Director-General of the Health Board in the event of a crisis in which the expected number of persons in need of assistance in the crisis area is exceeding or exceeds the expected number of emergency and defence assistance providers in accordance with Article 1 (1) of Decree No 46 of the Minister of Social Affairs of 6 November 2020 entitled "The tasks of emergency, in-patient specialist medical care and general medical care providers in preparation for emergency and defence, and the levels of preparedness and content of preparedness for the tasks imposed during the period of protection, martial law, mobilisation and demobitisation and in the event of an emergency and during an emergency', or there is a material supply disruption of medicinal products and medical devices or any other situation which seriously jeopardises the normal provision of health services to the public by the health service providers referred to in § 1 (1) of the aforementioned Regulation or causes disruption of the continuity of vital services. When issuing the same decree, the Director-General of the Health Board has decided as Head of the Emergency Management Authority within the meaning of § 14 (3) of the Emergency Act that the epidemic spread of COVID-19 has led to an emergency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U73	Thank you. Prime Minister, there are also questions for you. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U74	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! We have learned what we really know for about four months: you cannot do the Prime Minister's job. Nor can it be understood that the order issued on 10 November does not occur in the context of events that took place on 11 April in the next year's number. Neither Minister of the Interior Mart Helme nor Minister of the Interior Alar Laneman has sent police forces against demonstrators, unlike your government and your Minister of the Interior. But since you are always telling us about the Health Board and the orders, bureaucrat, as you are, I would ask for statistics on how many cases of infection have occurred in connection with demonstrations. How much has it been found that due to these specific gatherings, there was a sudden rise in infection, or how many of the people who gathered on Toompea in the Liberty Square were infected there?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U75	First of all, I reject it: you asked which specific legislation, and that is the legislation under which the emergency has been imposed. If you don't know that as former Minister of the Interior, it won't do you any honor. As for whether people were infected there or not, of course I do not have this information in that form. But the fact that the police were there with the Health Board and asked them to follow these rules probably prevented a number of infections. I don't have a solid record that I can rely on, like there's no accurate record of how many people have been infected, I don't know, from the mall or school.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U76	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U77	Good manager! Prime Minister! The police chief admitted to us on April 21st that he informed you on Wednesday, April 7th afternoon that the police wanted to bring out the immediate responders and dogs the next day. You asked for an extension so you could come and introduce your white book. Please describe how this conversation took place. Did the police chief ever tell the truth, and did you ask for an extension so that you could come in calmly on April 8, Thursday, before us?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U78	Thank you. The chief of police gave me daily reports of what was going on and how the police were going to act. The police followed their own threat assessment and made their own decisions accordingly.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U79	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U80	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! You said here before that you weren't out there, but on April 11, that's the date we're talking about, there were regular police officers and patrols. However, I have a photo recorded on my phone, and the press reported photos that clearly show that there are special forces there. How do these special forces differ from [the others]? First of all, they have a special outfit, they're wearing moss-coloured green clothes, they have an emblem on their shoulder that says "High-speed reacters," they have special equipment and special training. I say, why are you lying? Why do you lie so brazenly and brazenly to the people who saw all those SWATs there and lie that there were no SWATs, even though you had to know that and you gave that order as Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U81	First of all, I specifically said that there were police units outside that would ensure our security on a daily basis: patrol officers, rapid reactioners, I said that, and also regional police and youth police officers, for example, who have received further training for the crisis situation. Due to different functions, some policemen use green uniforms. Perhaps seeing policemen in uniforms of a different color next to their usual uniforms does not mean that they are Special Forces. But the rapid-reactors really were there. Where I've been lying, I don't understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U82	Prime Minister, are you going to continue or have you answered?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U83	No, I already did.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U84	Thank you. Just for information, good colleagues, everyone has an oral question in the round of questions. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U85	Thank you very much. Prime Minister! Of course, I didn't get it. There is such a controversial message here that, on the one hand, an emergency has not been declared, but then there is a law under which an emergency has been imposed. When then he was set and by what date, it was incomprehensible. But the question is different. On 18 April 2021, you gave an interview to Postimees. You responded to the reporter's statement that Toompea has dozens and dozens of police officers, including heavily armed military personnel, who act as quick reacters, so that these questions must be asked by the police, there is no political control over the work of the police in Estonia, and the police act in accordance with the threat assessment. That was your answer. Now I have a question. I understand that in these hot weeks police action was political and that is why there was no control over the police, because you said that there was no political control over the police activities in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U86	Thank you. I couldn't completely follow your thought structure. When I said that there was no political control over the activities of the police, and you also reached the conclusion that there was no political control over this activity during the demonstrations, it is proof that we are in agreement: there is no political control over the activities of the police, because the police are based on their own threat assessment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U87	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U88	Honourable Chairman! Prime Minister! At the beginning, I had the impression that you, like, made it look like you didn't know anything about these police interventions, and you repeated that the police actually decided everything on their own. It was only after quite a long time of questioning that we learned that there was actually company every day, several days in a row: the Chairman of the Riigikogu, the Minister of the Interior, you. You were discussing things. What were you discussing, and did the protocol remain, or did you just listen? What, then, was the meeting about? I get the impression you didn't want to talk about it at first. It took a long time to find out that you've ever been to that decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U89	Thank you. I never said I didn't know what the police were doing. Of course, every night the police gave an overview of what the situation is: how many protesters there are, how they intend to act. That's what I've been saying, and that's exactly what it was. That's what the police gave us.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U90	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U91	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I listened to your response to the fact that the police have different uniforms in addition to their usual uniforms, etc. Personally, it seems to me that you may not even be lying, you are simply incompetent in this matter. I would remind you that the uniform of the police is not like your wardrobe, where you take out a blue or yellow dress at one point. There were high - speed reactioners, security police, or guard duty, who were watching the objects, then there were regular policemen, deputy policemen, and apparently there were a couple of men from the riot police. So make these things clear before you come here to answer a specific question before the Riigikogu. Question: Why did the men on the list enter the Toormoor Cafe by force?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U92	Thank you. I repeat: we are not in a different position here. Like I said, there were patrol officers, high-speed responders. I also said that, according to different functions, the police may also have green uniforms, such as border guards, rapid reactioners, dog drivers. I mean, if there are policemen in uniforms of a different color, that doesn't mean they're Special Forces. Your question was about a specific move. You have to ask the police why some concrete steps have been taken. There's a way to find out. But since you have so much to say about this, the huge overreaction, the huge misfortune, I have asked myself to make an overview of how many complaints have been made against the police's actions in connection with these demonstrations. I learned that four complaints have been made, i.e. four inquiries concerning complaints. I also let myself know who those complainers were. And then what came out: three complaints were made by a man who wrote me threatening letters. Interesting coincidence! I'll see, in any case, his name figures. In this sense, it is simply not true. If there had been an overreaction, if people had been harmed, there would have been complaints about police action. But it's not. Consequently, the police acted in accordance with their competences and within these limits in order to control this demonstration and to lead people on the right path to comply with these restrictions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U93	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U94	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress, good Prime Minister! The question is simple for me, and I'm not going to have to worry about it for a long time. How do we define who the task force is, who's a regular police officer, and if we have a document that determines who the task force is and who the high-speed reacters are? It's clear who the border guards are. How about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U95	Thank you. I don't know how they're split up, who are the patrol police, and who are the high-speed responders, I don't know how to answer that, so you're gonna have to ask the Home Secretary. But the police officers who were there belong to the same units that ensure our safety on a daily basis. As I've said many times, they have different colors of clothing. In this sense, this does not mean that they are Special Forces.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U96	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U97	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Prime Minister! There are one or two police patrols out at the central police station every day to ensure our daily security in the downtown area. What we saw in this yard a month ago was a pretty brutal show of force. I understand your unfortunate government was panicked because there was no organizer and it was spontaneous protesters. But we've heard a whole myriad of all kinds of lies. You're saying Vaher lied when he referred to the D.O.D.'s threat assessment. Today we heard that Vaher lied to us about you asking for this demonstration of power to be postponed. If everyone's lying and, above all, the chief of police is lying, why is he still in business today?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U98	Thank you. It seems to me that this lying is more like your property, it's gonna work out for you. In today's world, all lies move relatively quickly and spread relatively quickly. So in this respect, I'm sure you'll have to be honored.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U99	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U100	Thank you. Okay, so I'm not going to use the word "truth" in my next question, so I'm going to use a slightly different question. You have repeatedly referred to this decree of the Health Board of 10 November, which sets out these requirements for public events, and you have repeatedly explained the events of 11 April. But at the same time, at the meeting, the Health Board has said very specifically that the Health Board only makes recommendations and decisions are always at government level. Maybe all the decisions were made not by the Health Board, and not even by the PBGB, but specifically by your government. Again, I don't use the word "truth," but I'm asking why you're making a vow.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U101	Thank you. You are now putting together all kinds of different subjects. When the Health Board talks about imposing restrictions, it is of course a government order, you know that very well yourself, having also been in the government. Restrictions which are permitted and not permitted shall be imposed by the Government of the Republic. That, of course, is decided by the Government of the Republic. No one will argue with that. But what concrete steps are also being taken to comply with these restrictions in the context of a specific demonstration, it is still the [decision] of those who are active on the ground. We have a separation of powers, and the levels of decision are divided differently.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U102	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U103	Good President! Good Prime Minister! You said before that you didn't say you didn't know what the police did, that you knew everything. Police Head Vaher claimed that they were based on the threat assessments and wishes of the Health Board and the kapo in the context of the PPA threat assessment and their behaviour. The Health Board has called for very harsh behaviour and the kapo has claimed that constitutional order is in jeopardy. We've met both of us, both of us saying that this is absolutely not true. But since you knew everything, then you also knew that this Mehir story was wrong. Then why are you defending him, why are you defending a liar, and whether it is right for a liar to work as a leader of the EPA?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U104	Thank you for that question. But once again, I come to what was wrong with these protests, whether anyone was hurt, whether there was an overuse of force. How do the police proceed in making their decisions? They also make their own risk assessments, and very often this threat assessment has been carried out on the ground, it is not written down, because on the ground a decision must be made whether a person is dangerous or not, whether a situation is dangerous or not. If there were to be some kind of written memo to be able to react at all, then in that case, I think, quite a lot of accidents or crimes can happen. So I think that the fact that the police are free to decide, act and put together their tactics based on their own threat assessment must remain. Again, how did the police act when, for example, compared to the police in other countries? The police explained these rules to people, asked them to keep their distance, warned them, etc. But there is no such knowledge of the use of excessive force if only four complaints have been made.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U105	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U106	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! You said Special Forces weren't used. But explain who these rapid-reactors are. So these are the regular patrol policemen?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U107	Thank you. As far as I know, they're not Special Forces. This is the way I have been prepared by people who are better acquainted with this subject: patrol policemen, rapid reactioners, youth policemen, district policemen. These are all police officers who aren't SWATs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U108	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U109	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! When listening to this list, it seems that half of the Estonian policemen were carried there to Vabaduse Square. Whether or not there were SWATs, we haven't figured that out yet. But I'll ask you more generally. How do you feel? I just got the impression from what you said before I was on TV upstairs that you thought everything was fine: the police didn't have an overreaction or excessive use, whether psychological or physical pressure on peaceful people. Let me get this straight. You're satisfied with the way the police acted?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U110	Thank you. Like I said, there are four complaints. In this respect, the Estonian people are also satisfied with the police's activities in controlling these demonstrations.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U111	No further questions. Thank you! I open negotiations and ask Peeter Ernitsa, representative of the Speakers of the Riigikogu. I apologise, but it is our turn that there is first a representative of the questioner or heirs and then members of the Riigikogu wishing to express their opinion. Since Mr Ernits introduced this question, he is also a representative. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U112	Good manager! Good Prime Minister! Yes, two months later, the time has gone by for this porridge, but the content is actually just as confusing. When I asked repeatedly what the chief of police reported to you on 7 April, Wednesday night, rather that I wanted to bring out the task force and dogs the next day, and you said that you asked for an extension of one day so that you could introduce your white book to us on Thursday, unfortunately you slipped past that answer. Yeah, the chief of police at night is still reporting as usual, but not a word about whether you asked for an extension that tomorrow is an important day, and maybe you could postpone these demonstrations of power. Yes, it must be fair: excessive force was not actually used. Rubber bullets, rubber batons, tear gas, they really weren't used, but the game was actually on fire. It was a clear threat. When the people come out with the slogan "No Police State!" and yet you know, Prime Minister, and also the President of the Riigikogu knows and has given his approval that well-armed police officers are being brought out, not just ordinary policemen, and dogs, it is your responsibility. You gave me that approval. What I and I really haven't been able to answer is whether you asked the police chief for an extension or if he lied to us. We talked to the whole group, and he made it perfectly clear that you asked for an extension. That's it. But I remember very well what it was like Sunday morning when I came to Toompea. I was supposed to be in the country, but I came to see. I asked who was in charge of the operation, and I was told to go to the Dome Church. It was an interesting sight. The nice dogs were yapping, there were different-looking policemen, many of them very large and very strong. I'm not going to tell you what color that uniform was. The buses were standing and so on. Really, there weren't enough people. But at the same time, like animal gardens were placed next to the Russian church, the [movement] was limited before the Riigikogu. I asked you why you're doing this, you're deliberately pushing people together, even though there were 2 plus 2, and all these rules why you're doing this, at least get these fences out of the Russian church. It was still mid-morning, and the people had not yet arrived, eventually they sunk or, rather, were driven to the Liberty Square. But it was clearly provocative behavior, a game of fire. For several weeks, the people had peacefully expressed their minds. Whatever you say about them, every citizen has the right to express his or her opinion. And now they're bringing out everything I said and everything everyone saw. But who is responsible for what really was? We've been interrogating all the leaders of the force, some even several times. One says that we were based on the Kapo threat assessment, the other says that we were based on the Health Board threat assessment, and there are other combinations. Then it turns out it wasn't a threat assessment, it was a normal kapo memo. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] But the main thing is whether the state's top executives were actually aware. Of course, it's always easy to say that yes, some policemen, some desk chiefs...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U113	Would you like some extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U114	Yeah, a few minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U115	A few minutes or three minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U116	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U117	All right, let's do it for three minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U118	...they slipped, they did, we didn't know anything. But we hope, at least I hope, that Estonia will still be a democratic state and that Estonia will not run the country, be it or the police generals. However, of course, we in Parliament manage the country, even though we are largely reduced here to a rubber stamp by making the state budget incomprehensible. But at least the Prime Minister [should speak] frankly and answer specific questions rather than whine quickly about the text made by the advisers, where there were not many answers. One particular question we asked was how many policemen had been brought out that day, and you, Prime Minister, answered how to take, every day a bit, once here, once there, and how to take, the city is great. No specific answer. That's what you said, yes, that playing with the cello is not a threat to national security. Thanks for that, too. But still, I'm still hoping to get an answer from you, either you asked for an extension so you could come and introduce us to the white book, or the police general lied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U119	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Mart Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U120	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I have to say, we didn't see the Prime Minister here, we didn't hear him here. We heard a cocky nibble here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U121	Honourable...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U122	Please, put that phone down and listen to what I have to say!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U123	I have a request...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U124	Show me that respect! I have a request...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U125	I have a request to all of us that we honor...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U126	I also have a request that the Prime Minister respect the questioners, not call them liars, not blame them for the fact that the Ministers of the Interior of the previous government had caused the rapid reactioners outside with automatics and dogs, with buses hidden around the corner, who rode the Riigikogu to the front of the Riigikogu, ate here with some of the members of our group, wanted to prevent them from coming to work. Our group has not organised all this. All of this has been organised by this government, under the leadership of this Prime Minister, and I have the right to express my opinion on his behaviour with the MPs. This is not rude, because the half hour that passed in answering questions was extremely rude to us. Extremely rude! Okay. But let's get to the point. We found out what we've known a long time ago. The Prime Minister does not control the situation in the country; the Prime Minister does not know what is happening to his subordinates, his ministers; his ministers do not know what is happening to their subordinates, or the directors of their offices; the directors of the agencies themselves decide what they are doing. It's up to us to listen to all kinds of casseroles forever. We do have one threat assessment, and we do have another threat assessment, and then we have a third threat assessment, and then it turns out that national security is under threat and constitutional order is under threat. And then it turns out there's really nothing in danger. We are told today: no, there was no danger. When we started these meetings with the Director-General of the PBA and so on, there were stories at the beginning about how the constitutional order was threatened and based on the Capo threat assessment, but the CPO threat assessment cannot be shown to you because it is classified. We have a secret country like that. It may not be known internationally that Estonia is a country, we have so classified it. I don't know, keep secreting, maybe at some point you'll discover that you're not the Prime Minister because there is no country. All of this is embarrassing and shows what helpless, but politically brutal, rhetorical society we are dealing with today's government. And it can't last forever, and it won't last forever. What I'm trying to say is, why don't you ask the chief officer of the Police and Border Guard Board out and let him tell you what the difference is between a police officer and a speed-reactor? And if you still don't understand this thing (it seems to me that even when you read off this text, you didn't understand exactly what you read off the question of functional literacy!), then you'll know that the patrol officers didn't go to the line of fire in Lihula last summer. There went the rapid-reactors because the rapid-reactors have the equipment, the training, the operational plan, and everything that comes with it. If you do not know this as Prime Minister, how do you imagine that you will lead this country when there is a real crisis, not the kind of crisis you have created with an excessive response? When you say that there was no excessive response, excuse me, excuse me (sorry, sorry, a heart attack was once such a nice saying), which was when the same police officers who, according to your assessment, were pushing it very well to see the people in the videos and then shouted at them: "Wait, hold on! "People are trying to disperse... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U127	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U128	...the police are pushing them back together and screaming, "Keep your distance, keep your distance! " And if there's some kind of bearded papi that's screaming some milkmannergut, you can imagine: music on the streets of Tallinn is unacceptable; the permission of the city administration has not been applied for. Are you out of your mind? Isn't this a police state? Isn't that an arbitrariness? Isn't that a violation of people's constitutional rights? You're a lawyer, you should understand that there is. But you probably don't qualify as a lawyer either. I don't know, Italian is the proverb "so good that it's not good for nothing." I feel exactly the same when I look at you and listen to you sometimes. You're so good you're not fit for anything, certainly not for the Prime Minister. Get it together! Find out what's going on in this country, what people are waiting for, what the people's concerns are, what the protests were about. Don't call them lame countrymen, don't call the people here liars and fools. You didn't use the word "stupid," you said a little bit more subtle. This is also your reform party philosophy: beat so that there are no bruises. We've learned from you, and we'll try to learn how to beat up without bruises. We gotta keep up with you guys, we're breathing down your neck, we're taking power away from you. Soon we'll take the power away! Because this is the way to lead this country in the form of a battalion of destruction, mocking the people, suppressing the people, impoverishing the people, deterring the people from their homeland, so there is no way to go on. I'm sure you don't understand. But I will tell you, however, that it is not possible to go on like this. This country will be taken away from you and sooner than you think, and you yourself have made the most important contribution. Keep up the good work! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U129	Good fellows! I have a big request. This hall is certainly a place for political discussions, for discussion, for discussion and for the publication of various visions. Respect, respect, respect, respect for all of us! Henn Põllaas, please speak to the Riigikogu. Dear Henn Põllaas, I apologize to you for a moment. Please come to the Riigikogu Chair. Please come, thank you. Mart Helme, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U130	I have an invitation to the President-in-Office to make similar comments to the representatives of the Government, in this case the Prime Minister, when he starts insulting the ambassadors of the Riigikogu, calls them liars and makes other stabs and derogatory remarks. Please be of the same standard for everyone!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U131	Thank you. I say yes to you, I will certainly do so if I hear it from the members of the government or from the members of the Riigikogu. But I agree, of course, one measure, I agree with that. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U132	Can I have an extra three minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U133	Yeah, eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U134	Thank you. Honourable Chairman! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The Preamble to the Estonian Constitution says that the state of Estonia has been created in the undying right of the self-determination of the Estonian people and is based on law and justice. Paragraph 1 states that the highest authority in the country is exercised by the Estonian people. We in the Riigikogu, as well as members of the government, have made a solemn oath to observe the Constitution of Estonia, to be loyal to our country and to our people. And yet, two months or only two months after today's government came into power, it was quite clear that the government had taken the course, just as the protestors were chanting, to the creation of a police state. The Infectious Disease Prevention Act, the Media Services Act, the Emergency Act, etc. All of these led straws to this nest, the name of which was the police state and through which attempts were made to create a dictatorship and a police state from Estonia, a democratic republic. That's exactly what these people came to Toompea. It wasn't any lame countrymen, but their main message was "no police state." And what did we see? So how did this government, how did the Minister of the Interior, how did the Director-General of the Police Department respond? Not to assure the people that, no, we are not moving towards dictatorship, we are not moving towards a police state, but, on the contrary, to this few hundred people, police rapid reactioners, special forces, as the common language is said for those who were armed to the teeth, who had automatic weapons, who had dogs. It was a perfectly clear demonstration of power against the people. And the message was, keep your mouth shut or else... Luckily, the bullets really didn't throw and the tear gas wasn't used either. But it was quite clearly an overreaction, which was accompanied by an indefensible and cynical lie, because General Vaher, the Director General of the PBA, announced that his actions were based on the requirements of the Health Board and the risk assessment of the kapo. We have met both representatives, these claims have been refuted. The Director General of the Health Board has said that they did not make any claims or want the police to start harassing people. The Director-General of Kapo has said that there is no such threat assessment that constitutional order is threatened. We have also seen this so-called threat assessment ourselves, there is not half of it. But it is quite clear that the government stood up to its people and to the democratic aspirations of its people. I'm gonna go one step further from here. On 9 May, the people living here celebrated the great victory of the Soviet Union, which had migrated during most of the former Soviet Union, in the patriotic war. There are no people who need to explain what this victory meant for the people of Estonia. It was the beginning of the 50-year occupation, it meant deportations, shootings, rapes, brutal violence. How, then, did our government act? The head was stuck in the sand, secretly relaxed the requirements, 2 + 2 requirements so that there would be no interference. Our militia were ordered to be lower than the lawn, not even to wear our defence uniform. 10,000 people were allowed to party there unhindered, drink vodka and play music around the cemetery. No one called for a distance [to be maintained], no ban on coming together more than 150 people or anything. At the meeting, Vaher told us that the threat assessment of these two events was the same. If that's true, then why were there dozens and dozens of heavily armed police officers with dogs, but there were only six ordinary policemen at the Defence Cemetery without any special equipment if the threat assessment was the same? But I don't believe it. We received the Kapo documents on the March event, their assessment, but on the 9 May event, the kapo refused to show us its threat assessment, even to a narrower circle. I would like to point out that Vaher lied again. Certainly these risk assessments were not the same, they were radically different, because we have also read about the Kapo Yearbooks year after year and heard about various briefings about the actual risk assessments in connection with 9 May. This will be made more drastic by the decision of the PMA driver not to react, not to take precautions. The most drastic thing is, as the Prime Minister said when we were performing here, he was familiar with everything, he knew everything that was going on. Therefore, all of this also had his approval, that the Estonian people could be shown strength, that the Estonian people could be threatened, but before a different society, which stands for a completely different value and a completely different history, we hump our backs. The worst part is that when a few weeks ago (i am a member of the Defence League) was asked whether it was true that the celebration of the Victory Day would be banned, I said that I had not heard it, I did not believe it, but we just read in the papers that the government really is debating that the celebration of victory [the celebration] should be canceled. The excuse is health data again, which did not interfere with the Russians' celebration of their victory on 9 May, but the celebration of the Estonians' victory must be banned. It's worse than absurdity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U135	Thank you. Mr Kalle Grünthali, address chair of the Riigikogu, please. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U136	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Kaja Kallas! My tongue doesn't bend to say " Prime Minister." Today's inquiry was due to the fact that the Conservative People's Party of Estonia found that disproportionate force was used against the people, peacefully demonstrating. I am not getting emotional, and I am trying to analyze the facts and also the statements made by Mr Kallas today. By jumping back in history: it all started when the Law on Control and Prevention of Diseases was being dealt with right here in this Chamber, which was intended to give the police the opportunity to exercise excessive force. The people came out, it turned out, as the Constitution allows, let us say, to protest peacefully, everyone has the right to do so in the Republic of Estonia. The crowd came out, on the first day less, on the second more, on the third even more, and in the end there were hundreds of people here. Because it seemed to them and they were convinced that this bill was going to fall into the category of a police state in Estonia. I'll come back to that couple of words. What happened? The protestors used the posters as they used everywhere else in the normal world. There were ambassador names, pictures and phone numbers on it. These ambassadors were figuratively placed behind bars in that picture. Clearly, the Reform Party and the Centre Party did not like it, the Social Democrats did not like it, the Fatherland did not like it. Fortunately, the last two parties came out of prison. They didn't like the situation that they were behind bars, their faces being exposed, etc. I think, Mr Kallas, that, under the pressure of your fellow Members from the Reform Party, you decided to put an end to this demonstration. At first you surrounded [the area] with a fence, later you increased the police force, concentrated them, and if the people didn't disperse, you came out with more force. What was going on in there? Captured, detained for no reason, found no charges, fired. It's about a drumming game or a milk cuff and a cello game and all the other things. There are many of them, these facts, even though you say you only have what was there, four complaints. No, Mr Kallas, there are more of these complaints and they are grouped into one category, represented by the Estonian Civil Society, to learn the judge's assessment of whether these demonstrations were legal or not and whether the police's actions were unconstitutional or not. But that's quite the time to tell. Why don't I call you Prime Minister? There's a roll-out of responsibility. First of all, the fences put a police officer in the North Prefecture here, that was their decision. Later, the chief police officer said that this was a threat to constitutional order. When it turned out that the Kapo document said there was no threat to constitutional order, there was this bizarreness. You said today, too, that there is a different interpretation, there are no agreements. Bullshit. The worst part is that the document was also sent by the kapo to the Riigikogu, but Jürgen Ligi, your good party partner, kept this document in his desk drawer until it became public, even though it was also assigned to Kert Kingo. What do I mean by that? What's going on? There is, in fact, no dispute about these circumstances. This actually means that if you don't know anything about these things, you have not been reported and you answer every question, go ask the Minister of the Interior or go ask the Health Board, you will not be in control of what is happening in this country. Do you understand? One more example, as long as time allows. They found out who was sent there. You said a nice story here that people were in police uniforms, that they sometimes change their clothes for clothes of a different color, and so on. No, it's not a woman's wardrobe, Mrs. Kallas. There are blue, red and green dresses. The police have a solid structure, a solid uniform according to the unit. I know there were high-speed responders, security police guarding the objects, the regular police, the relief police, and I found out there were people from the riot police. Of course, also "Health Board employees" who were dressed in police uniforms and who repeatedly violated the law of law enforcement. But I'm not gonna beat up those paragraphs here, it doesn't matter at all. Your incompetence has already been demonstrated by the fact that you don't know which units were operating here. What country do you run? But maybe you're still running this country. The people who came to this court and said no to the police state had to fight against it, against the law on the prevention and control of infectious diseases. They didn't get everything they hoped for, but they did a big, big job, Mrs. Kallas. They proved that under your leadership the police state is functioning in Estonia, and you are the prime minister of this country, the police state. Happy birthday to you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U137	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U138	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! I wasn't really planning on coming here today to talk, but everything that happened here just gave me the situation that I came here to talk. Today you said that this action and this threat assessment were developed by the police on the ground. Having worked for the police for many years, I know that the police appreciate the situation with the eyes of how dangerous the people can be, how dangerous the gathering is. The danger lies in whether these people are known and identified as having cold weapons, firearms, whether they appear to be intoxicated or whether they are already taking aggressively minded goals, starting to break something, fight, or so on. None of this was in this nation. Therefore, this claim that a threat assessment was carried out on the spot and that action was based on it is certainly neither truth nor truth. Otherwise, it will be the head of a completely incompetent police authority if he decides so. You argued here and explained that people have not complained about this activity. It's very hard to file a complaint if you have any numbers. In such a critical situation, obviously, the people who calmly expressed their senses here were not prepared for such aggression. I'm pretty sure they got freaked out, they were freaked out. In such a situation, it is completely illogical to assume that this combination of numbers on the form will be remembered or that evidence will be gathered that I will go after the complaint. That's why your argument is very cold-calculating and arrogant, I'd say. That's not how people are treated. You can't expect such a thing to be overreacted here, and you certainly can't defend yourself with the idea of not complaining. Next, I would like to say that I remember when it was said here, you have spoken yourself and you have given a lot of interviews about how we have the Prime Minister of Women, just stressing that the Prime Minister of Women. When you look at these decisions, whose first litmus is how you view your people, how you view your people, who dare to express their minds, who are prepared for it, who have made posters, I point out that the use of posters has been banned, and according to how you view your people as enemies, and you have reflected all this in some way in very cold blood, it is absolutely frightening how a woman can be so coldly calculated and so cruel, so cruel to her people when you lie with a cold eye about all the facts that have happened. You're spinning, you're looking for excuses why it was the right thing to do. However, you are talking about the separation of powers here, precisely in a situation where you, with your involvement and I believe that you, as Prime Minister you are currently in office, have, under your orders, sent special forces armed against peaceful people in the form of rapid reactioners. It's pretty amazing that you're talking about the separation of powers. It's not here. Similarly, as Prime Minister, you have been able to properly waver the people's faith in our rule of law. This nation no longer believes so much in this rule of law. If there was still reason to believe, after such unjust aggression, they doubt it, especially those people who had to follow those police orders there, starting to strip themselves off, strip themselves and everything. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U139	Please! Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U140	These people certainly don't see this thing the way that milkmannerger, used as a rhythm instrument, was taken away, or who wanted to play music, and in front of his children, armed police officers started talking to him in barking and barking, they don't think so. In all of this, it is absolutely incredible that the Prime Minister of Women, in the light of the fact that women are expected to be more empathy, is expected to be more understanding and to be able to walk, and to justify himself in absolute cool peace. Worst of all, you'll find that you did the right thing to people in this situation. On this point, I wonder if we can be so proud that we now have a female Prime Minister, because so far, no man prime minister has been able to commit such behaviour and aggression against his people by doing the Prime Minister's work. But unfortunately, our women's Prime Minister was able to do so, and he was likely able to bring history to our country's own activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U141	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U142	Good people in this hall and those outside the hall behind the screens! It was a very interesting discussion today, a debate. We learned that these hot April days, which spent weeks filling our media, it was kind of a normal event. We didn't have anything special, we didn't have any emergency announcements. True, we also learned today that we actually had the law, the emergency law, according to which all situations were like this, without explaining a specific date, that everything was still good. There was no overreaction, people were very pleased, very satisfied and can be said to be happy. And by the way, the people you were here on April days at Toompea and the Liberty Square, you're all very pleased. We're happy about that. We also learned that we do not have political control over the police. We found out that the police are doing what they want, completely free, no problem at all. We have the principle of separation of powers, which means that the government doesn't control the country, doesn't control the police, doesn't control the force structures, and the police does what they want. No one knows why or who put some fences around the Riigikogu. Even the governing board of the Riigikogu does not know, the government does not know and the Prime Minister does not know. Well, it turns out that we use the principle of separation of powers as a cover for what is called uncontrollable, which is actually a cartoon from the country. I no longer want to talk at length about the details or the individual moments that have been repeatedly referred to, be it the picking up of a musical instrument, the removal of mannequins, the intimidation of people, the grunting dogs, the great strong men who are employees of the Health Board. Let him be. I just want to finish my speech here with the words of a very wise judge of state. These he said, this judge of state, as a recommendation to the Riigikogu on 23 April 2019. He said it would be worth avoiding overregulation, overreaction and any excesses of rights and freedoms. Democracy also means content, not just to last. Democracy also respects the dignity of those who are affected by the decisions, otherwise it would be a slave democracy. So there we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U143	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U144	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good ambassadors, good decision-makers, good also those who have received our mandate to exercise this power! And, of course, the people who are watching us over the Internet! Well, there's no way we can take all these cases out of our lives. After all, it is said that whoever lives without the past can succeed in the future, or it was somehow different. But I'm starting with personal experience. The year was 2001, 25 November when A.Le Coq Arena had an Estonian-Kazakhstan football game. There were two teams, then there were serving staff, 80-90 foot fans and some police officers. Everything was cool in the first half of the year, and somehow in the second half of the year the fans started to be taken away, and I was finally taken away. Then, when they took him away, they asked, "Well, you behaved politely," they started to find out that what you brought him here, he doesn't drink, does he? Then it became clear that Paragraph 18 (2) of the Tobacco Act was found, which was that no smoking is allowed in sports facilities. Despite the fact that the same cop who arrested me had previously asked me for smoke and fire. Well, we went away. Whoever was a little more quick, they sat down for five days, who said he couldn't get that much, paid a fine of 2,000 kroons. I think I got a fine of 60 kroons, and I got some money like that. And a little while later, the soccer alliance suggested that we make a round table with football fans and the police. Hop, hop, go there. The police made themselves hard, said first of all, who you guys are, anyone can put on a blue scarf and a shirt and say that he represents fans. We got the tip. So NGO Football Hospital found content. But I told the police when we had a round table that if you were training, we wouldn't have to pay the fine. The next game on A.Le Coq Arena was, in my opinion, on 25 March 2002 and we had Russia, with whom everyone had had problems at the time. We didn't have the riot police yet, it was only later formed, and then when it came, they didn't have any special equipment, and they didn't have all that. They did the right thing in this Russian game, by the way, because they took our fans' bleachers in a chain like this and didn't let anyone out when the sign "Familymen came back" was pulled there. But our differences remained at the table where we talked. They said, yes, that those who have been sitting for five days couldn't rewind it, it was complicated. But we found that we had some kind of common ground, which means that we didn't have to keep the pod anymore, because it was such a nice little thing: you did the exercises, wasn't it, and we had to pay for it, but didn't pay for it. We have different committees where we deal with very sensitive issues. We all have state secrets, and some of them also have NATO's secret [permission]. If maybe an official comes along and says, "That, that, and that," then there wouldn't be such debates, so who, where, and what." We guard the information we have, and we transmit it somehow, so that we do not break these boundaries, let's say it was necessary. But if it is not possible to do so, conspiracy theorists will live, especially if we say there, the art of cheating begins to come. I recall the previous presidential elections. I guess the plan was for Marina Kaljurand to come, but then Siim Kallas did the day earlier, and then Paet put it, and then Jaak put the River Knight, too, that I also president. That's pretty messed up. In the same way, I don't know who put those railings. Of course, the fences were placed by the company that brings these barriers, which placed the barriers. But who invited them? The text may have called, isn't it, whose side it came from or didn't come from? But conspiracy theorists might say, "Hey, some annoying demonstration is coming, make sure they don't exist. " 'But how? "'I don't know, you find this section, do it." I think the truth is somewhere in the meantime, but at some point it's not afraid to just talk to its own Riigikogu, and then there's a conspiracy and then they roll in. Eventually, no one will understand anything. So a little more communication. I realized the government's communications manager is changing now, maybe it'll get better. Maybe it'll get better.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U145	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U146	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen! There has been one remarkable event in Estonian history that triggered quite a number of processes. I was the immediate witness to this event. This was a football match between Estonian Radio and Estonian Television, which was attended by the then popular group Propeller. That's where it got out of hand. The police guarded the order, they did their daily routine work. Regardless of what relationship we had with the Soviet police, it has to be said that it got out of hand when foolish orders were given, which were undisputed by the militias, in military order. It got ugly, went from Kadriorg to downtown and later became ugly. The same could have happened right here on Toompea. True, yes, young people were raging in Kadriorg, blood boiled. Let's just say that the trigger finger will certainly itch more for young people. But it could have happened right here because of the stupid, thoughtless orders. Not for a moment does it occur to any intelligent person to blame the policemen on the street who were sent here to guard order. Police tactics, the most common tactic in police school, are that if a certain threat is detected, the police will act more aggressively than usual. It's always like that. After all, the perpetrator is also taken out much more aggressively than [behavior] when an ordinary policeman, for example, goes to check the driver's license. I wouldn't blame cops at all. I'm actually blaming the government. I understand, and it went through our meetings several times with both the police leaders and the Minister of the Interior, that the biggest complaint was the lack of an organiser. Perhaps this unfortunate, but anti-Estonian government panicked about the fact that there was no one to be repressed, it was a spontaneous demonstration of the minds of the citizens. With a statement to which we all have an unmistakable right, except in the government's mind. But with this government, I'm not surprised at anything. An unhappy, incompetent, failed government, but an anti-Estonian government, as it is, has roots in the Communist Party. We had a genetic communist former prime minister who also had a great experience with police dogs. So we can finally say that there are political traditions here and that there is nothing to be surprised about in the case of reformed communists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U147	Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, speaking chair, please. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U148	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! What we heard here was, of course, the excellence in twisting the truth. You guys are pretty good at it. Some were false lies, some were deliberately presented in the wrong sauce. I gave clear answers on what happened. Or at least those questions I was trying to answer. There's a few things we should go over. It seems to me that you're trying to say that high-speed responders are a task force. But according to the Central Criminal Police Statute, the Special Forces are only K Commando and the K Commando was not used in this demonstration. As I said many times in my reply, yes, the rapid-reactors were. You were! I didn't say they weren't there, but high-speed responders aren't a task force. You're saying a task force was in place. To the last speaker: the demonstrators were able to express their minds. Unlike last year, last spring, when two people who wanted to protest against the government were driven away. There were people now in numbers together, they could tell us what they thought. No one took away that constitutional right from them, unlike last year, when it was forbidden. Kert Kingo's speech gave the impression that there could be nothing worse, nothing more brutal. Dear Kert Kingo, teaching you the left turn is not brutal police violence. It just isn't! You're saying that I said the police did this threat assessment on the ground. I didn't say that. I said that, of course, the threat assessments were made in advance, but the police must also be guided by the threat assessment they make on the ground. Basically, there are so many issues here that they cannot respond to everything. But I say the police behaved in accordance with the rules. Evidence of this is that there have been no numerous complaints against police action. From what you were saying, it seemed that someone was harmed enormously, but if so, it would have been reflected in complaints to the law enforcement authorities. As far as I know, there are four complaints. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U149	We have exhausted today's second item.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U150	We go to the third item: the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Helir-Valdor Seeder, Raivo Tamme, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Andres Metsoja, Mikhail Lotman, Üllar Saaremäe and Priit Sibula concerning the ratification of the Estonian-Russian border treaty. As a representative of the heirs, please, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U151	Thank you. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The questioning of the Fatherland ambassadors is not simply a matter of curiosity, but of deep concern, and I dare say, of topical concern. I would remind you that Foreign Minister Eva-Maria Liimets has repeatedly taken the initiative that Estonia should unilaterally move forward with the ratification of the border agreement with Russia. To remind you that during the discussion of the border treaty in the Riigikogu in 2005, an amendment to the draft ratification was introduced on the proposal of the Fatherland with a reference to the legal continuity of the Republic of Estonia and the validity of the Tartu Peace Treaty. It received broad support from all political forces in the Riigikogu. Its initial initiator was Chancellor of Justice Allar Jõks at the time, who considered that such an addition, such a reference to the ratification law would be necessary and reasonable to ensure and overconfirm the principle of Estonian legal continuity. The addition of this reference, in the form of the validity of the Tartu Peace Treaty and the mention of the legal continuity of the Republic of Estonia, irritated Russia so that Russia withdrew its signature from the border agreement and did not enter into force. For the second time, ratification was achieved in 2014, when the joint government of the Reform Party and the Social Democratic Party came to power in Estonia for a short time. One of the first things in this short period was precisely the process of ratifying the border treaty. It was brought to the Riigikogu and the references to the Tartu Peace Treaty and the legal continuity of Estonia were deleted. Now we are in a situation where the Reform Party is in the coalition, this time with the Central Party, and once again there is a current border agreement. We are showing a unilateral initiative in a situation where relations between the European Union and Russia and Estonia and Russia are at a low point, Russia has been at its borders for a long time and continues to be very aggressive, Russian high politicians and officials, led by foreign ministers, dictate our foreign policy and politics to Estonia in general, accuse Estonia of violating human rights, complaining of linguistic discrimination, complaining of violating the rights of minorities in Estonia and demanding Estonia to end its russophobic policy. In the meantime, after submitting an inquiry, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has attended the Riigikogu Question Time. We have learned that the current government has abandoned the reference to the Tartu Peace Treaty when ratifying the border treaty and is therefore prepared to give up the emphasis on the legal continuity of the Estonian state in ratification and is based on the draft that had been the subject of the debate in 2014 and not on the draft of 2005. Inquiries ask what kind of concessions the current government still intends to make to Russia's demands regarding ratification of the border treaty. In addition, we would like to know whether this Minister of Foreign Affairs' very strong desire to deal with the border agreement and to refrain from mentioning the Tartu Peace Treaty is his own initiative, the initiative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the initiative of the Centre Party, or it is a priority of the entire government, to refrain from mentioning the Tartu Peace Treaty and the idea of legal continuity in concluding the border agreement. If that is the case, what are the arguments why it is reasonable to give up and show one-sided initiative at the moment it is now? Finally, since the Prime Minister is also the chairman of the Reform Party, we are very interested in the position of the Reform Party as the Prime Minister's party on the question of the border agreement. Do you consider it appropriate to ratify the 2015 draft (this draft contained both the idea of legal continuity and the reference to the Tartu Peace Treaty) or the 2014 draft (there were no more references in this draft)? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U152	Prime Minister Kaja Kallas will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U153	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good heirs! I'll be right back. First of all, is the Foreign Minister Eva-Maria Liimets' statements that Estonia should move forward with the ratification of the border agreement his own personal initiative or is it an official policy of your government? "We have agreed in the coalition agreement that the safety and well-being of the Estonian people are best guaranteed in a world based on democratic state order, human rights, internationally agreed rules. Yes, at the foreign policy debate held in the Riigikogu on 16 February 2021, the Minister of Foreign Affairs pointed out that it is still in Estonia's interest that Estonia and Russia ratify the signed border agreement. This was a presentation by the Government of the Republic of Estonia on foreign policy, approved by the Government of the Republic and reported by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. It is therefore an official policy of the Government of the Republic. Regulated relations with neighbours, including Russia, are better than unregulated relations with neighbours, both for Estonia and for the European Union as a whole. Secondly, "If this is the official policy of your government, with which do you essentially justify progress with ratification of the border treaty? " Especially for a small country, it is important that relations with its neighbours are correct and clear. The conclusion of the border agreement with Russia has a positive impact on Estonia's security, as it helps to increase stability and predictability in relations between countries and eliminates potential misunderstandings and misunderstandings on an issue as important as national territories. A clearly established and marked limit is therefore an additional factor in ensuring security. All countries should be interested in ensuring that these borders are legally unambiguously defined and mutually agreed. Legal clarity is also important from the point of view of international relations. Therefore, the entry into force of the agreement will benefit both Estonia and Russia. Thirdly, "If foreign minister Eva-Maria Liimetsa's statements are his personal initiative, how do you feel about this and, as your head of government, do you tolerate such initiatives? " As has been said, this is not a personal initiative of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, it is a government policy. Fourth: "What is the official position of the Reform Party, whether the ratification of the border treaty should refer to the legal continuity of the Republic of Estonia and the validity of the Tartu Peace Treaty or not? " Agreeing a state border between Estonia and Russia is in accordance with the Estonian constitution. § 122 (1), sentence 1 of the Constitution states that the land border of Estonia has been determined by the Tartu Peace Treaty of 2 February 1920 and other international border agreements. As a technical agreement, the border agreement concerns only one part of the topics covered by the Tartu Peace Treaty, i.e. the progress of the state border line, and does not affect the validity of the Tartu Peace Treaty as an important basis for Estonian statehood and as a bearer of the continuity of the Republic of Estonia. I recall that the main value of the Tartu Peace Treaty is that Russia recognised Estonia as an independent state. Thus, the conclusion of the border agreement does not affect the national continuity of Estonia, the value that the Tartu Peace Treaty bears and the Constitution of Estonia protects. The Tartu Peace Treaty is in force. The State Border Treaty deals only with the development of the border line, to which Article 3 (1) of the Tartu Peace Treaty corresponds. The border agreement does not affect the Tartu Peace Treaty or its validity. If you look at history, Latvia has abandoned the introduction of a preamble to the border agreement, and there is an agreed border between Russia and Latvia. Regulated relations with neighbours are always better than unregulated relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U154	Helir-Valdor Seeder would like to ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U155	Thank you. Prime Minister! You said that regulated relations with Russia are beneficial to both parties and it is important that relations with neighbours are regulated and predictable. Do you really think that it is proportionate to give up the reference to the Tartu Peace Treaty and the legal continuity of Estonia for the sake of 'correct relations' with its neighbours? Once again, I stress that the Chancellor of Justice at the time considered it extremely important that it was mentioned at the time of ratification. Does it not seem to you that, given Russia's behaviour over a long period of time, it is extremely naive to expect and hope that it will ensure some sort of security? But my main question is: is it not completely disproportionate, abandoning such a fundamental and eternal reference in the law of ratification, in order to ensure that relations with the neighbour are correct?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U156	Thank you. After all, we do not give up any reference to the Tartu Peace Treaty or the Tartu Peace Treaty. As I said, it is also written in the Constitution, and the Tartu Peace Treaty is just where Russia recognised Estonia as an independent state. The second [case] is the border agreement, which is a technical document. Yes, I believe that the fact that the border is correctly marked off and that there are no disputes between neighbours where this border is still going is, in any case, very important for our security. Therefore, a border agreement is needed on both sides. Correct, legally formed relationships are important to both sides so that everything is understandable. In today's security situation, the border agreement is more important than ever.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U157	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U158	Thank you, good vice chairman. I now ask the simple question of not having to look much for this answer. At the moment, the border treaty simply does not refer to the peace of Tartu anymore. Is it the government's position that it's in the border agreement or that it's not in the border agreement? The talk about getting along with the neighbors is pretty good.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U159	Thank you. The border agreement is a technical document concerning the crossing of the border and its agreement with its neighbour. As I said, no one will give up the peace of Tartu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U160	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U161	Prime Minister! I understand that your government's policy is to conclude a border agreement with Russia, which provides for the eastern border of Estonia more or less in the place where the current baseline is. But I would like your position on the legal issue. As long as the new border treaty has not been ratified, will the eastern border of Estonia be legally there, as defined by the Tartu Peace Treaty and as stated in § 122 of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U162	§ 122 of the Constitution says that the Estonian land border has been determined by the Tartu Peace Treaty of 2 February 1920 and other international border agreements. Perhaps we do not have a border agreement with Russia at the moment, but we need it to be clear where this border runs, there would be an agreement and there would be no confusion internationally.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U163	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U164	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I have a very short and very specific question: are the territories of Petserimaa and Narva, which are Estonia's territories and are currently under Russian administration, occupied or not? Yes or no, please, no longer necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U165	Thank you. Of course they're occupied. The question is, do you want to go get them right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U166	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U167	Prime Minister! You have recently visited Ukraine, you have seen all this brutality, which is happening now and has taken place over the last few years, the splitting of Ukraine. Did it not occur to you that it is we who can demonstrate that there is no new right to injustice that should set an example for Ukraine, sticking to the emphasis on the Tartu peace, emphasising the territorial injustice committed against our country? The United States recognized us as a great nation for as long as we were occupied. Can we not set an example for Ukraine, showing that we do not agree with the recognition of such territorial donations?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U168	Thank you. The security situation in Ukraine and Georgia just indicates that we really need a border agreement. An agreement must be reached with the neighbour, where this border is still going, to avoid any international confusion in case our neighbour should have bad thoughts towards us, as he has done in Ukraine or Georgia. This security situation, and all that I see in Ukraine, just indicates that a small country like us, but also in Russia, needs this border agreement to be clear where the border is.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U169	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U170	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! No one disputes that regulated relations with neighbours, a positive relationship with a neighbour precludes misunderstandings, etc. It'll all be good. But the thing is, we're thinking wishful thinking right now. No one on the Russian side is currently concluding a border agreement with Estonia. Whatever [says] Minister for Foreign Affairs, Prime Minister, we can mention Tartu's peace there, we may not mention it. We looked at the response to our Foreign Minister's initiative from Moscow. That was taunting. They come here, begging us for nothing they can't get! Do you have any indication that this time this initiative will work? Twice we've been mocked. You need a third time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U171	Thank you. Of course, ratification must be bilateral and take place at the same time on both sides. The fact that we are open to progress with the ratification of this border agreement is also a signal to the other side to move forward with the ratification of the border agreement. But, as you say yourself, clear, correct relations between neighbours are better if they are not there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U172	In answering questions, members of the Riigikogu have one oral question. Next thing you know, Mart Helme's gonna ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U173	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mrs. Kallas! You know exactly what's going on in other people's heads, hearts and guts. You know we're preparing strike teams to take Petserimaa and the Narva River back. I'm glad you know. I don't know. But there's something else. The question is that you are saying that if the eastern neighbour has bad thoughts about us, then the border agreement will protect us. I recall that you have just visited Ukraine, that Ukraine had a land border agreement with Russia. Did it protect them?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U174	Thank you. I also don't know that you have a plan to take Petserimaa. I don't know what you're referring to, so in that sense, we're probably in the same information room. But it was just a question of Mr. Asking if this was your plan. If you have such a plan, you can talk about it. Speaking of Ukraine, for example, I was in the European Parliament when the events in Ukraine developed. What did I see there? I saw that it was easy to confuse the international community with certain issues. If you remember, at a time when the crisis in Ukraine began, it was a saying that it was a civil war, and because the European Parliament, the ambassadors who are there, is still a cross-section of all the Member States, it was very clear that it was possible to confuse these people. Similarly, if there is no border agreement, it is certainly possible to create confusion in the context of the international information war. Where does this limit go, in case there's some aggression? Therefore, it is better if the border agreement is not there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U175	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U176	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Madam Prime Minister! In 1994, an agreement such as the Budapest Treaty, whereby three major powers, the United States, Great Britain and Russia, guaranteed Ukraine territorial integrity in exchange for Ukraine's surrender of nuclear weapons. We all know what happened to this deal. After all, in 2014, Russia annexed the Crimea, i.e. broke the same agreement, and two other guarantors of the agreement, i.e. the United States and Great Britain, could do nothing to comply with the agreement. Is there any point in concluding a border agreement in this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U177	Thank you. Again, you know very well what was in the context of the events in Ukraine and what information was used against Ukraine in this information operation. But I still think that a proper clear relationship between our neighbours is better than not having them. Any misunderstanding can be exploited and, if there is still a situation where swift and clear action is needed, there must be no hesitation, no doubt and no misunderstanding about any rules.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U178	Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U179	Thank you. Prime Minister! What took place in Georgia, do they have a regulated border treaty relationship with Russia, and was it helpful? I am thinking of the war in Georgia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U180	Thank you. I am not familiar with all Georgia's issues in the details, so I cannot answer that now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U181	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U182	Thank you. Prime Minister, if you have understood, would you be able to explain? I just don't get it. Here colleagues from the EKRE are saying that since the border between Russia and Ukraine and Russia and Georgia, in accordance with mutually recognised international law, did not prevent aggression there, we should therefore not have a mutually recognised border with our neighbours. What does that make sense? I didn't get it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U183	Thank you. I don't understand the logic either, so now it's kind of an argument. But you're probably gonna have to ask them for an explanation of that logic.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U184	Good Prime Minister, there are no more questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. First, Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U185	Thank you, Honourable Prime Minister, for your answer, but I honestly am puzzled by that answer. First of all, we know very well that Russia is not currently going to conclude any border agreement with Estonia. I didn't intend to do that in the past. We are unfortunately playing a part in this unworthy and unreasonable game. And I'm terribly sorry about that. All the more so that the government and the foreign minister have so much sense and sense to learn from past experiences. We know that elections to the State Duma in Russia are coming in the autumn, and it is completely absurd to show unilateral initiative in such a situation. But what am I surprised at? I'm surprised at your answer. You have repeatedly stressed that the border agreement is a technical document. Is the border agreement currently being concluded a technical document? First of all, if it is a technical document, I ask why these technical solutions are not agreed or are extremely unreasonable and impractical. We will take Narva's reservoir and electricity generation, where the border agreement does not solve the way in which electricity generation and water levels are regulated in Narva's storage facilities, which is extremely important because of the border line. Or the use of a hydropower plant resource, which should be agreed at border water bodies in accordance with international law. There's no word for it! Or the border crossing on the Narva Bridge. Or we can talk about crossing the border in South-Estonia, South-East Estonia. All these technical problems have been resolved by this technical agreement either unreasonablely or left unsolved. At the same time, you said clearly today from this remote control that at the moment you consider it an occupied area of 5.2% of Estonia's territory, between the border line and the border agreed by the Tartu Peace Treaty. Are we really changing the Estonian border line and changing the territory's membership of the TBT and there are no political and legal motives and reasons for it? Of course, this border agreement is not only a technical border agreement, it was signed at the time of the Tartu Peace Treaty, it was part of the Tartu Peace Treaty and it is also part of the Tartu Peace Treaty today. It has very serious and long-term legal and political consequences and meanings. I am extremely surprised that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia will say in 2021 that the border agreement we are currently discussing, which has been concluded and which is expected to be ratified behind two parliaments, and which hopefully will not take place in this form, is simply a technical document and nothing more. And that we are prepared to scrutinize our idea of legal continuity and the reference to the Tartu Peace Treaty, which we introduced in 2005, which was a very good litmus paper, which resulted in Russia giving up. This very clearly shows that Russia does not intend to recognise the legal continuity of the Republic of Estonia as a result of the Tartu Peace Treaty. That's what upsets him, not the technical border agreement, as you call it. In 2021, as a result of this whole 30-year process, we have not got any smarter, and we are still ready to step on the same rake. It really amazes me. I am concerned and deeply concerned that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has not come from a group of so-called politicalbroilers, where party members grow up and, for example, take a random person as Minister of Foreign Affairs, we assume, but has come from professional career diplomats. These answers, which I have received in this Question Time, are not the level, to be honest with you, that is not the level. So I am terribly sorry that this is the entire explanation of the government that you said here today, and that is official government policy. I can say that the Fatherland Party will do its utmost to ensure that such long-term influence and so strategic interests are not converted into day-to-day change of currency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U186	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U187	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good people who are watching this question! You're just asking a question or not, the answers are pretty good. Well, the usual kind of classic, actually, for me. I've heard a lot about it in the City Council of Tallinn. After all, this so-called Grand Master is going to be hit pretty hard. But we realized that yes, Tartu peace will remain in our constitution. It is a good thing that at least this change will not be made by this coalition. However, just as the reference to Tartu peace was removed from the border agreement already in 2014, the view that it is a technical document is being kept today and that it should not be there. This actually shows that today's coalition has at some point made its audit of the 2005 decision. This audit is our right, members of the Riigikogu, to demand that for what reasons it was now concluded that in 2021 there is no need to have this reference in the border agreement. I think it exists. You said the coalition is going to have a very precise policy today. I don't think I'm at all unfair or, let's say... Ah, okay, you're putting these signs on. But I think that Eva-Maria Liimets, for example, is a very good presidential candidate and she is perfect for both the Centre Party and the Reform Party. This must be the big hall that finds it because it's mysterious what comes out of it. It's a woman with a big secret, right, you never know what comes out of there: that we have a nice, very nice president or prime minister and then all of them, and we'll get a new one. At first, you're wondering if he's going to do any of his politics, he's going to do some sort of solo, but look, we found out that's actually the kind of government line. For me, a little worrying is actually this thing, this argument that we are expanding, that we have to get along well with everyone and that regulated relations with the pariah are, of course, many times better than unregulated relations with the pariah. EU and world sanctions against some countries should also be broadly reviewed. Let us be honest, okay, we have not realized that we are maintaining good relations with Belarus, because how else could the Belarusian divide emerge on the Moscow market, and at the same time we are also trying to maintain good relations with the opponents. I don't think these oposits really want it anymore if we're so hypocritical. A small country like Estonia, which constantly changes its position, does not create confidence, does not create a sense of security, is no longer Estonia, you know who rose on foot when 08.08.08 these events took place in Georgia. Today we are already trying this fine living art, because we want to regulate with everyone a little bit and not regulate a little. But what do our allies do with England, NATO and the European Union? Previously, we were like a competence centre, or Estonia knew very precisely what relations were in Russia and how to interpret them. Today we've become quite a bit lax. Why it is put on the table may be just ludomania, or gambling addiction. Perhaps the stakes are too high, which is not to be understood. I have a feeling that maybe there's something like this [wishing to] write yourself somewhere. I know that Marko Mihkelson always wants him to write somewhere around the corner, that I helped ratify this border treaty, Marko Mihkelson from Tallinn. But it's probably not coming, I hope. Under the conditions that our government is now saying that there is no reference to Tartu peace, I do not support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U188	Henn Põllamaas, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U189	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The Estonian state was restored on the basis of national continuity with all its features, including the state border. At least one thing we've gone on to my great surprise. I remember very well when the Foreign Minister of the Reform Party and the subsequent presidential candidate Kaljurand, not Kaljulaid, but Kaljurand, in this very hall, asked the same question that I asked the Prime Minister today as to whether Estonia's territories are occupied or not. Today's Prime Minister has already evolved and has come to the understanding that he really is. What, then, is the basis for this incomprehensible desire to surrender occupied areas of Estonia to us in an undisguishably hostile [pretentious] state? I don't know, to be honest, history doesn't remember any similar precedent if a country in peacetime voluntarily proposed to another country that we surrender free-of-charge property. Speaking of our neighbors, yes, Finland was forced to abandon Karelian, Salla, Petsamo, but it was at gunpoint. It was after they lost these territories in the war on Russia. We haven't lost anything. We want to give it up. So what reasons did we hear here? Relationships are improving, borders must be established. Well, how do they heal? How does this give us some kind of security guarantee if we know what happened in Georgia, which was in Ukraine? Russia, which does not comply with any international agreements, if it does not wish to do so, does not pay it all these papers, not all these signatures, not a red one. Latvia gave up its occupied territories. Has it improved relations between Russia and Latvia by an ounce? No, it's not. The Prime Minister quoted § 122 of the Constitution here, which says that the land border of Estonia is determined by the Tartu Peace Treaty and other treaties. Yes, indeed, it is, it is determined, the Tartu Peace Treaty is determined. The Tartu Peace Treaty completely lists this border, from this stone to this stream, from there to this farm, etc. If we change this, we unilaterally cancel it at our own request, then it means that we will meet Russia and agree with its arguments that Estonia is not a legitimate state, that we are like a new-made state. If we conclude some kind of border agreement without reference to the Tartu Peace Treaty, then we will also cancel the Tartu Peace Treaty. That is clearly what the previous Chancellors of Justice have said. That means one more thing. This means that if we abandon the Tartu Peace Treaty, we will also declare completely null and void the provision in which Russia promised to recognise our national independence and immunity for eternal times. Is that what we want? The border agreement is a technical document. I'm sorry! The technical document comes from some other spheres. We can call this current temporary line of reference, which runs along the illegal border of the ESSR, technical, but not what has been established by the Tartu Peace Treaty, which has received international recognition, which is completely inseparably part of one of the foundations of the Republic of Estonia. This is not a technical document. The Tartu Peace Treaty applies regardless of any arguments against it. The Prime Minister also said that if there is no border agreement, what confusion may arise, that there is a risk of a civil war, just like in Ukraine and so on. I'm sorry! We saw these threats in 1993 when it was intended to create the autonomy of north-east Estonia, which was actually aimed at shifting it into the grip of St Petersburg and Russia. When we make this agreement, it does not absolutely mean that nothing can come in the future, especially when we see this mass immigration, which brings us thousands and thousands of people every year, precisely from the Eastern countries. Why can't the Putin regime bring them up and say we have a civil war or whatever and come to their aid? I'd like to see this "technical agreement" protect us then. No! It is precisely the defence forces of the state that protect us, our allies, our inner courage and our straight back, that we will not just give away, free of charge, almost the size of Saaremaa, a piece of Estonia with huge natural resources, with oil shale alone to such an extent that, if made into diesel fuel, today's mining capacity would allow us to have it for almost three-quarters of a century. We would be completely independent of imported raw materials, etc. I have very often recalled the old Romans saying cui bono? "Who's it gonna be good for?'. Unfortunately, in order to see the cause of some process, it must be said: certainly not to the Estonian state, but, on the contrary, to those who want to destroy the Estonian state and statehood, in violation of our constitution, which says that Estonia's territory is uniform and indivisible, and of which Professor Jüri Uluots, who is one of the authors of this provision, said that this literally means that Estonia's territory is uniform and indivisible, not to give up a leg. So if you want to sign a border agreement, you have to change the constitution. This requires a referendum. But all the surveys that have so far been carried out on this subject show undoubtedly that the majority of the Estonian people are opposed to this completely unjustified free sacrifice and cowardice. The Argas have no future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U190	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U191	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Kaja Kallas! I'm gonna start a little more emotionally. We all, politicians, try to walk who, because of the facade, who soulfully wreathed, on the anniversary of the Republic of Estonia, reminds us of those people who fell for Estonia's independence. We do this very calm and determined, yes, we keep their memory high. Today's information is that the Tartu Peace Treaty is just a technical document, I think some ambassadors spit on the shed blood of our forefathers, and I don't think they have a thing for these commemorative events anymore. You could say your masks have fallen. But now I'm going to a calculating thought. First of all, on 18 February 2021, Foreign Minister Liimets announced that Estonia could take the first step towards ratifying the Estonian-Russian border treaty. On 9 April 2021, Estonian Foreign Minister Eva-Maria Liimetsa and Russian Foreign Minister Lavrov held a discussion, during which Liimets expressed the view that the ratification of the Estonian-Russian border treaty must proceed. A few days later, the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs announced that yes, the ratification of the border treaty must move forward, but the references to the Tartu Peace Treaty must be avoided. In fact, the question for me is why the Reform Party is deliberately trying to undermine Estonia's security. I am not going to talk here about the measures that the European Union has talked about and supported, with which we are going to give up a lot of our mineral resources for change, but I am talking about the security level. That's the question. The Reform Party will not find funds to ensure our security, to acquire coastal defences, armored vehicles or mid-earth air protection, and there is simply no money. This sector is, in fact, currently uncovered. But whether we have these missiles, tanks or, for my sake, the right or ability to own a nuclear weapon, no weapon will protect Estonia's independence better than the same Tartu Peace Treaty. No matter what, Russia can conquer us in just a month, but this peace agreement will ensure that sometime later, as history has shown, the Estonian people will have the opportunity to regain independence because we have a peace agreement with Russia, which recognises our right to this territory. That same Tartu Peace Treaty is worse and more powerful than any nuclear bomb in the arsenal. This is our legal continuity. For me, there's a mystery, which is why you want to take this most powerful weapon from us. Reform Party, answer that question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U192	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U193	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know. In the case of some colleagues, it is clear that they are skilled propagandaists and that it is not interesting to argue with them or to argue with them very much. But in the case of others, it seems that the real problem is either there is no memory or there has been no knowledge of what memory could have come from. Any discussion of whether a border agreement is to be concluded or ratified, and in commenting on whether it is going to be concluded or ratified, shows that it is not really well understood in what process there is and, consequently, it is likely to be quite difficult to understand these subtleties as well. I was moved to come here to talk about a direct lie in the text of this inquiry, under the leadership of Mr Seedri: that the border treaty was brought to the Riigikogu for ratification in its previous composition during the Reform Party and the Socialist Government. As a reminder to those who were not here at the time, and to those who have lost their memory: in 2012 and 2013, indeed, on the initiative of Parliament, the task of taking the initiative of negotiating a border agreement was started here in such a way that all the political groups that were here at the time, I would admit, were not in Parliament at that time, so we agreed that we could move forward on this issue. The process was led by Marko Mihkelson, then by IRL's leading politicians, and the IRL Council, led by Mr Seedri, approved this plan. It was brought to the government and from the government to Parliament by Urmas Paet. At that time, in fact, all parties supported the agreement. This was not ratified, of course, due to the foreign policy events that unrolled in spring 2014 and which have already been discussed a lot here today. Mr. Kruusimäe did not understand exactly who was going to do what or what to discuss. He said something about the Tallinn Council. The border agreement was indeed renegotiated between Urmas Paet and Lavrov. It was 2014, I say, no, I'm sorry, I think it was 2013. It made two changes compared to previous agreements. One was a textual amendment which made it clear that Estonia did not have territorial requirements for Russia, and the other said that this border agreement only regulates and exclusively regulates border issues. It was also addressed in agreement with the lawyers who advised us at the time, as to whether Estonia is legally consistent, i.e. whether the point of legal continuity of the Tartu Peace Treaty will continue to apply. This is what the Prime Minister referred to when he said that, as such, the border treaty became a matter of border engineering, in order to rule out the malicious interpretation that this agreement suddenly replaces Tartu's new border treaty. No, I'm not. The peace of Tartu will remain in force. On the border issue in particular, the second agreement will come up with it. That was the point of this agreement. At the technical level, this agreement was led by Mr Jüri Luik, Ambassador of Moscow, from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and by a very good diplomat who also belongs to a single party. Just recently, he was here with our colleague, ask him, do not speak such nonsense. It is very good to speak patheticly here that the Tartu Peace Treaty is as important as an atomic bomb, as I think has been said here. Most people, of course, who speak of the Tartu Peace Treaty, have not read it themselves in life. There are many different points. Some of the artifacts are legally valid, but have diminished in their senses, such as the question of how large-calibre artillery can be on Lake Peipsi and how many of these ships may be, including the amount of roubles in the gold that Russia must give to Estonia and so on. I'd like some more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U194	It will. Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U195	For us in this context, in fact, one of the most fundamental issues that changed to ratification in the last decade, now in the last decade, is whether we can have enough confidence for ourselves that the legal continuity of Estonia, which we do not want or intend to give up, no one wants, will remain in force in the border agreement. The new border agreement, which has been concluded and whose ratification process has been blocked, precludes this interpretation. It excludes it from saying that it relates exclusively to matters concerning the state border. Undoubtedly (and this is my comment mainly for the ambassadors of the Fatherland), the continuity of political parties means that there could still be some sort of organisational memory. It is not possible to tell a radically different story about the decisions that you yourself have made, you have inspired. It is simply neither correct nor dignified. When it comes to the company on the right hand, you were certainly not present in Parliament at the time. If you think it is in the national interest of Estonia to make territorial demands to the Russian Federation and to keep this subject up, then in a democratic society it is undoubtedly a legitimate position. I think this is the wrong position, I think it works against the national interests of Estonia, against the interests of Estonia's security, but no doubt you have the right to express it in every way. As a whole, I very much hope that Estonia will not negotiate the border agreements for the third time, the border agreements that have been concluded as a result of a very reasonable professional process, and there will be sometime this moment, as the Prime Minister rightly said, will have to be symmetrical, so that they can be ratified and removed from the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U196	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U197	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Madam Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The Soviet Union was, as we know, a country that complied with international agreements for exactly as long as it benefited it. Happily, in 1991, this country ceased to exist. We're free. Russia was free. Other countries were freed. There were two possible routes in Russia as the legal successor of the Soviet Union: whether it would continue the course of the Soviet Union, or whether it would deal with international agreements in exactly the same way as the Soviet Union or whether it would respect them. One of the first major agreements made with Russia was the Budapest Treaty, which I referred to in my question to the Prime Minister. In exchange for the surrender of nuclear weapons, the Russian Federation, the United States of America and Great Britain committed themselves to guarantee the territorial integrity of Ukraine. We saw what happened to it in 2014. One of the guarantors occupied Crimea, and the other two could do nothing about it. Perhaps Russia chose the path of the Soviet Union: agreements are necessary and useful as long as they are useful to Russia, if they are not useful, they can be spit on them. The guarantees of the great powers didn't help anything either. Therefore, as far as the border agreement is concerned, after this event, there is simply no point in moving forward with it. Well simply: as long as Russia has not restored the territorial integrity of Ukraine, it makes no sense for us to take any step in this direction. That's all. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U198	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U199	Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U200	Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U201	President-in-Office of the Council. Good Madam Prime Minister! Colleagues! Here just now, a colleague demonstrated quite arrogantly his long memory and knowledge of the subject. I must grieve him: there are some people here who have even longer memories, have even participated in the border negotiations and know exactly why this agreement was called the so-called technical agreement and what was to be accompanied by this technical agreement, so that this technical agreement would be compatible with the Tartu Peace Treaty. I'll explain. The year was 1997 when, under the leadership of Raul Mälgu in St Petersburg, we initialled the text of the border agreement as it was some time later, in 2005 if I remember correctly, the text of the border agreement. We were paralyzing. That doesn't mean we signed it. But why did we agree to this initialization? For a very simple reason. As an ambassador in Moscow at that time, I remember very well all the numerous Western diplomats who went whining with their faces all the time complaining that yes, but now you cannot be admitted to the European Union, cannot take you to NATO, because you and Russia have this question of the border agreement open. Oh, what a pain it was to always talk to those whiners. But what the hell, we survived. What, then, was the solution that we proposed and which then found the consensual or more or less consensual support of the political forces of that time? It was a decision to initial and, if possible, sign a border agreement, while making a declaration in the Riigikogu confirming that Estonia is relying on the Tartu Peace Treaty for its national continuity. We know that a member of the Riigikogu also made this declaration when all this topic arrived in this hall, on which Russia withdrew its signature. This shows the importance that Russia attaches precisely to the question of our national continuity in the light of the Tartu Peace Treaty. The rumors that there's a number of cannons and calibers there, and I don't know what's going on these days, it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. Importantly, as Lennart Meri said, the Tartu Peace Treaty is the birth certificate of the Estonian state. That is exactly how it is viewed in Moscow. The Tartu Peace Treaty is the birth certificate of the Estonian state. And they don't want to see this birth certificate because it puts into a completely different light all the 50 years when Estonia was incorporated into the Soviet Union. It puts our independence, our independence back into a whole new light, etc. There is no point in me taking long breaths here on this issue. That's the whole point. As long as we don't get any Russian names from the Russian Federation, the government of the Russian Federation, be it the Putin government, be it the Medvedev government, or be it not known whose government we can invent here all kinds of Russian names, maybe it's the Tolstoy Government, maybe it's the Turgenev government, maybe it's the Gogol government, I don't know, until there's a government in Russia that says, yes, we're such a giant country with the largest territory in the world, and generously we recognise the Tartu Peace Treaty and we're signing with you... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U202	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U203	... a satisfactory and acceptable border agreement on both sides, in the meantime, we will have no place to sit or be anxious. In the meantime, it's what it is. There's no border agreement. And when it comes to this hall, the Riigikogu must make a declaration in which it says: Estonia will continue to rely on the Tartu Peace Treaty as the starting document for Estonia's national continuity. That is the point of the whole question. By the way, from the control line. The previous government and the Minister of the Interior Mart Helme were the ones who started building a control line that the Reform Party had not been able to launch within 17 years of what they were in the government. We have also contributed to the security of Estonia in this matter. And point out that you knee-length boys weren't in the Riigikogu at the time, it's stupid. It is precisely because only cartel parties like you sat here, we got here in the Riigikogu, and in this Riigikogu we will also take the absolute majority in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U204	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U205	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, a little, maybe a terminological statement. Indeed, the Estonian Constitution states that the Estonian land border is fixed by Tartu's peace and other international treaties. The point is that there are no other contracts. The only treaty that fixes this border is the peace of Tartu. So legally, it should be like Estonia's territory, there is nothing to argue about. That's another thing. I'm also gonna do a little historic tour. When this border agreement was first ratified here in the Riigikogu, I was a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. By the way, these references to Tartu peace, which were indirect references, were not direct, Tartu peace was not mentioned, but the references to it were indirectly, to a large extent agreed with me and other colleagues. So I remember exactly how it went. At the same time, we know, of course, that any reference to Tartu peace is absolutely unacceptable to Russia. But there's no reason to make any illusions here that they're overestimating it. Exactly when we had this ratification process here in the Riigikogu, the Russian Duma Foreign Affairs Committee led by Mr Kossachov, who listened to the country, how we are going to ratify here, and quite clearly said that if it does not come here unanimously, they will start to think hard. And it was obvious that they were looking for a reason not to ratify. The peace of Tartu was an excellent excuse for them, but it is important not to think that without it they would have ratified this agreement. It's the same now. There is no reference to Tartu peace, but it is very naive to think that they will now sign it, ratify it, etc. Absolutely not. We're in some kind of surreal situation right now. It seems that the biggest peacekeeper and guarantor of Tartu is Comrade Putin, who under no circumstances will sign this border agreement, will not allow the ratification of the border agreement that has been concluded. I won't. That's it. I don't think we need to make a fool of ourselves and start sticking it again. None of this is forever. We can see that Russia is now moving towards a more and more totalitarian society; it is not yet, but it is moving in that direction. But it's a sign of agony. Let's wait a minute. As the Chinese proverb says, one of my favorites: If you sit by the river long enough, there's a chance to see your enemy's body floating past you. Thank you. Let's not rush.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U206	Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U207	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, This is now my most important moment as a vigilante here, because during the election campaign I spoke to my potential voters when I met them that my only political credo is the Tartu Peace Treaty. I think that when an Estonian person talks about the Tartu Peace Treaty, he does not think, one by one, all the points that are contained in the Tartu Peace Treaty, but when talking about the Tartu Peace Treaty, only the Estonian border, which was then established by the Tartu Peace Treaty, is considered. When the Tartu Peace Treaty is discussed, it is also said that both Irboska and Jaanilinn are Estonia's territories, and as we have heard today, the Prime Minister said, they are occupied. That is why I felt that I had to come here to repeat the same thing that the esteemed Professor Lotman just said. This is what the Director of the International Centre for Defence Research has said from this remote control. We have managed so far without ratifying this border treaty and we can continue to do so, we have nowhere to rush. We do not need to start making this absurd control line the Estonian border now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U208	Now I'd like Prime Minister Kaja Kallas to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U209	Thank you. I start by repeating what many have already said. Yes, the Tartu Peace Treaty is the birth certificate of the Republic of Estonia, but the birth certificate in the sense that it was the first document in which Russia recognised Estonia as an independent state. That's the main side. I have not said that the Tartu Peace Treaty is a technical document, as Kalle Grünthal claimed. I have said that the border agreement would be a technical document. Listening to everything you say here raises the question of whether you really want to make territorial demands. As we know, the precondition for joining NATO was that we do not have territorial requirements, as Mart Helme said earlier. Our security is based on independent defence and collective defence, which comes from being members of NATO. If we have territorial demands, although we have argued that we do not have them, it is a very different situation. It is not a question of improving relations; it is a question of security, of where this border goes, so that we have a border agreement and the border there is a clear run. I have listened to you again, and I understand that it is your desire to make these territorial demands anyway. But in 2021 no territory can be recovered without people living there. There's twenty thousand people there. The question is, what are you gonna do with them? The aim of the EKRE is to say that he establishes an ethnic Estonian state in Estonia, which should be ethnic Estonians. What are you doing with these people? Are you going to deport them or what's the plan? Finland does not require Karjala back. In this sense, this reference was not correct either. Mart Helme was talking about how the border was built. Firstly, I would like to correct this because the construction of the border and the construction of technical infrastructure began by our government in the identity of Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur. Secondly, for example, Raivo Tamm also referred to it as if this control line was somehow wrong, it is not really the limit and it must not be taken as a starting point. Why did this government, where the Fatherland was a member, build the border at the control line? Why did the Minister of the Interior Mart Helme, who very proudly spoke about how he was building infrastructure, set up infrastructure on a control line rather than where you really think that border should be? Your words and actions don't go hand in hand. In any case, the Tartu Peace Treaty is and will remain in force. The border agreement is needed in order for us to have a clear and understandable relationship with our neighbours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U210	We have exhausted this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U211	We will move on to the fourth item on the agenda, which is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Riina Sikkut, Eduard Odinets, Lauri Läänemets, Jaak Juske, Heljo Pikhof, Kalvi Tõvi and Indrek Saare on the priorities of vaccination and compliance with them. Jevgeni Ossinovski will have the floor on behalf of the heirs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U212	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, On 21 April, my colleagues and I submitted an inquiry into the priorities for vaccination and its compliance. The reason, understandably because, as the government has confirmed, vaccination is their primary priority, and as the epidemiological situation at the time called for, in order to get rid of the large-scale social constraints as soon as possible, it is necessary to move by vaccination... Mr. and Mrs. Helme have some sort of conversation there. Maybe they'll stop it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U213	Ladies and gentlemen in the back corner! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U214	Mr. Grüntha is still there. The issue is not only that vaccination had to move forward quickly in order to bring down wide-ranging restrictions, but was also about how to organise vaccination most effectively in order to achieve the greatest social objectives and minimise health damage. Of course, as we know, in reality the corona epidemic has one particular feature, and this feature is that it is passed on by the mostly younger active people, but it is mainly the elderly who suffer health damage. If we look at both mortality and the likelihood of entering the hospital as we grow older, it is clear and actually agreed throughout Europe that inclusion of older people over 80 in the vaccine is a priority number one, because there is simply so much more death and hospitalisation among them. If we recall the situation in Estonia, we will see that our hospital network reached the critical limit when it reached the top of Europe and the world. It was precisely the increased hospitalisation of the elderly that caused the hospital system to overload more widely, which not only affected the patients with the corona, but also everyone else, as hospital care was gradually restricted. As a result, it seemed to us that the government did not give sufficient priority to the vaccination of this group. This is evidenced by the low level of coverage of [over 80 years of age] with the vaccine, the confusion about reaching the elderly through the family medical system. And so this inquiry was made on 21 April, as has been said. We asked the Prime Minister to discuss these issues as quickly as possible in the form of an inquiry. We asked the Prime Minister to respond already on 3 May so that we could get the errors that had arisen, repaired and returned to us. Today's the last day of May. Of course, many of the questions we have raised have lost some acumen because of the time that has flowed into the sea. However, just as on 21 April, on 31 May Estonia will continue to be one of the poorest in the European Union in terms of vaccination at the age of 80. On 20 April, the Government of the Republic set the target of reaching 70% coverage in the 70-year-old age group by the end of April. Now a month has passed since that deadline, but 70% still has not been achieved. In these circumstances, however, a number of issues still remain topical. We have six questions for the Prime Minister. I ask him to read them out and give his answers, which we can ask further questions and hopefully hold a constructive and fruitful debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U215	And now Kaja Kallas will answer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U216	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Good heirs! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, I want to say that you really wanted me to come here at the beginning of May, but since both the visit to Ukraine and the European Union Council were planned, unfortunately, I did not have the opportunity to come earlier. Given the topical nature of the issue, I fully understand it and will try to avoid it in the future. But now to the questions. "The vaccination plan discussed by the Government on 20 April aims to achieve 70% coverage of at least one dose among people over 70 by the end of April 2021." [---] A large majority of EU countries have already achieved more than 90% coverage in the 80+ age group. By what time will Estonia achieve the objective of this coverage? "As of today...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U217	Good Prime Minister, can you speak a little louder? Mr. Grünthal will signal that he can't hear you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U218	I see. Yeah. Can you hear better now? As of 31 May, or today, vaccine coverage in Estonia is 69.47% among 70-year-olds and 60.71% among over 80-year-olds. There are also regional differences. Seven counties have over 70% coverage over the age of 80, three of which are approaching 80%, and four counties have just under 70% coverage, but are very close to it. The concerns are the towns of Harjumaa, Ida-Virumaa and, to a lesser extent, Võrumaa and Valgamaa. Every day I look at this number and every day I see how quietly that number grows. It's painful in the sense that a little bit of 70% is missing, but no day will come full. What does it say? It shows, on the one hand, that the closer we are to this goal, the harder it is, in fact, to get more people. At first, all those who wish will be vaccinated and will go quite quickly, but as time goes on, the slower it gets. Actually, it's a lesson. I think that in the case of other age groups, we will probably also see that by the time we get close to 70%, growth will start to slow down. There is a clear difference among the countries of the European Union when we compare the vaccination of the elderly in Western and Eastern European countries. This has been greatly influenced by whether older people in these countries are accustomed to being vaccinated or not. I also had a schedule taken out that how much influenza is vaccinated every year, and it turns out that in countries where older people have a high coverage of the current vaccine, it is a habit of getting vaccinated every year, they do not have to be convinced, but rather normal. We do not have it, this annual influenza vaccination against flu also takes the lives of a very large number of elderly people, which we do not have every year. If we look at Estonia's coverage compared to other Eastern European countries, we are even more involved among the countries, although we would actually like to be among the Nordic countries. In Bulgaria, the coverage is 11.7%, in Croatia 49.7%, in the Czech Republic 76.8%, in Hungary 72.1%, in Latvia 27.7%, in Lithuania 50.2% and in Poland 58.6%. This is not an excuse, but I just want to say that there are cultural differences here. The achievement of the objectives of coverage depends on both the quantities of vaccine reaching Estonia and the gender of the target population to be vaccinated. And as I have already said, the more people from the target group have been vaccinated, the slower the increase in coverage in this target group will be. We have taken various measures to increase the coverage of older people. We have used domestic vaccination when talking about Janssen's vaccine, which is a single dose. Let's go home and vaccinate those who want to. We tested 1 + 1 system in Ida-Virumaa, where one young person who brings in an older person can also be vaccinated. Local authorities have provided transport assistance, including information sharing, in order to increase coverage. The second question: "The Immunoprophylaxis Commission has confirmed the principles drawn up by the Estonian Association of Family Doctors for the vaccination of people at risk, where priority is given to people over 80 years of age. At the same time, Estonia continues to be among the last of the EU to be included in the 80+-year-old vaccine. Why is that? " If we compare vaccinations over 80 years of age with those of the Nordic countries, we really do not have the ideal. But it is not true that Estonia is among the last in Europe. Family doctors have done a very, very good job of convincing people, inviting people. At first, when we wanted to find older people and reach them with the vaccine, we learned that they were primarily trusting family doctors and family sisters with whom they were used to communicating. Thus, their communication, invitation by family doctors and family nurses was well done, and they must be thanked for that. Now, at the beginning, the faster the vaccination coverage was also affected by the limited amount of vaccine. But when a certain threshold is exceeded, those who wanted to be vaccinated have already received their dose and are increasingly beginning to determine acceptance and interest of the target group. At the moment, further work is being done to understand how to motivate older people to vaccinate more, because, as you rightly said, this means a burden on our health care system and this disease can have very fatal consequences for these people. The third question: "A total of 40,000 injections of vaccine were given in the second week of April, of which 80+ injections were given in the 3031 age group. This is 8% of total doses and the lowest percentage of weekly doses since January. With the exception of other doses that depend on previous vaccination decisions, the first doses were taken in total of 29,000, of which only 2400 doses were administered to the 80+ age group. What is the justification for the lack of adequate protection of the most vulnerable target group? " As I said, this is the principle behind vaccination: reducing the burden on the hospital system. In the spring of this year, over 70% of patients aged 60+ have been admitted to the hospital, and they are divided more or less equally between the three age groups 60-69, 70-79 and 80+. Therefore, the hospital system has not been burdened most by the age group over 80, but by the age group over 60. During the period you mentioned, at least 50% of the vaccine doses went to the high-risk group, i.e. over 60 years of age. However, if you look very closely, we can see that over 80-year-old vaccinations were primarily carried out by family doctors and that the target group was contacted by telephone. It was also the first risk group to receive vaccination due to the increased risk of developing COVID-19. At first, the vaccine could be divided into sections for family doctors, but as delivery volumes increased, it was possible to give more doses to those family doctors that list more people at risk. For that, we also have a software solution that takes this into account. In the light of the feedback from the vaccinees, those of the target population over the age of 80 who have requested vaccination have received this possibility and the vaccine doses needed for vaccination have been adequately distributed to the vaccine subjects. At the same time, there were those who were contacted by the vaccinees on the phone but did not want vaccination. At home, vaccination with a single dose of Janssen vaccine is still ongoing and could increase this coverage in the target population over 80 years of age. By autumn, we want to achieve greater coverage, but it also requires a more detailed understanding of the hesitations of people who do not want vaccination. Fourthly: "You have repeatedly argued that the government's health crisis is aimed at avoiding hospital overload and explained that restrictions are imposed in order for the health system to withstand. The risk of hospitalisation in people aged 80+ is greater than 40% and the risk of mortality is greater than 10% [---]. How does the non-vaccination of the 80+ age group help the government to meet its stated crisis management objective? "The aim of vaccination has been to prevent serious illness to COVID-19 and the deaths caused by it and thereby to ensure the continuity of the health and care system. At first, as I said, the amount of vaccine was limited, but in the meantime, if we did not get the doses we were hoping for, then we re-decided that we were giving vaccines to frontline workers. We have decided precisely to focus on the vaccination of older people. But there were also people at risk who had some underlying diseases, and the family doctors acted accordingly. Since you also know very well that our healthcare system is not so centralized, but in fact that family doctors have a pretty wide discretion, as I have learned from feedback from family doctors, [they do so] if they have not caught this [vaccine] person and there is a risk that the vaccine will go bad, they would rather inject this vaccine into someone else than chase that 80-year-old person endlessly. As the quantities of vaccines increased, we reduced the age limit for the risk group to 60 because, as I said, hospital admission increased at a much younger age. Perhaps more than 70% of the people admitted to the hospital were over 60 years old. Fifth: "Estonia has long had enough vaccine to fully vaccinate the 80+ age group, but so far the coverage of older people by region and by family doctor is very uneven. Dozens of people have died because of the logistical vaccination arrangements, and it continues to do the same. Why is preventing these deaths not important to the government? What organisational steps will the government take to address unequal coverage? " Prevention of death is very important to the government, and it is also important to avoid serious cases. Since I said that one third of the hospital population was over 80 years of age, the second third was 70 to 79 years of age and the third was 60 to 69 years of age, the equal vaccination of these three groups was important in reducing the burden on the hospital system. As I said, the vaccination of the over 80-year-olds takes place at the family doctor's office, and it takes more time. I had a very good and interesting meeting with family doctors, during which they described the process of how part of the older people are having this feast, but many need to be persuaded because they do not want vaccination, and it all takes time. And, as I said, less coverage areas have been dealt with and we will continue to deal with them separately. As vaccination is voluntary, the most important thing is clarification and understanding of what is behind the hesitation. Question 6: "The White Paper states that "It will take some time to make sure that the corona virus is controlled only by carrying out vaccinations." [---] How will vaccination take place in the long term and what errors in the current vaccination arrangements be avoided? " Before Midsummer, we plan to map out all the lessons we have learned from this health crisis and the arrangements for vaccination to avoid the same mistakes that were made last year when the summer was not prepared for the next wave. But we can still talk about it. I understand I'm out of time right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U219	Yes, but it is certainly possible to clarify the questions, and Eduard Odines will start with them. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U220	Thank you. And thank you, Prime Minister, for this review. Still, the target group over 80 is deeply concerned. You're saying that we're not at the end of their coverage, well, actually, 6th place from the back is at the end. Depends on how you take it, but coverage is still very small. Listening to your rhetoric, it seems that whoever wants to vaccinate, who doesn't want to, is to blame. And it seems that not all the measures you have spoken of will bear fruit. Vaccination of people over 80 years of age, especially in Ida-Virumaa, has basically stopped. If, for example, we look at last week's data, we see that up to 17 years of age, 1372 doses and only 504 doses over 80 years of age, or three times less. What have you considered and thought to do to move ahead of the latter in this age group in order to increase vaccinations for people over 80 years of age, as the current measures do not seem to bear fruit?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U221	Thank you. Once again, I say that we have cultural differences. I have here a table showing vaccination against influenza in different countries. It can be seen here that, for example, in Ireland, Portugal, Spain, Italy, Sweden, Denmark, Finland and Germany, people older every year are vaccinated against influenza and the coverage of these vaccinations is high, while we have it close to zero among older people. Perhaps there is a clear difference between the countries of Eastern Europe and those of Central or Western Europe with regard to the data I have compared. The latter have a constant experience of vaccinating older people, and we do not have it. And those countries I brought out, in their company, we're actually pretty good. If we look at these numbers more closely, we can see that the total number really is 60.8% of people over 80 years of age. But in Hiiumaa it is 79.4%, or more than 70%, in Jõgeva County 72.1%, in Järvamaa 75.7%, in Läänemaa 73.2%, in Lääne-Viru County almost [70% or] 69.8%, in Põlva County almost 67.3%, in Pärnu County only slightly missing, in Pärnumaa 69.4%, in Rapla County 77.7%, in Saaremaa 77%, in Tartu County 69.7% and in Viljandi County 74.8%. We have problems in Ida-Virumaa, as you say, where coverage levels are very low, you may be better able to give advice on how to convince the people there, there are probably cultural and information space questions there, Harjumaa, which is just very high, so it takes much more time to reach all people there than in Hiiumaa, for example, where people can be quickly vaccinated, and Valgamaa, where there are 60.2% vaccinated, there is also room for improvement. Family doctors are working on it, but at some point they're quitting. If a person has been offered several times and has been told that he does not want a vaccine, then it is clear that he does not. We do not have a forced vaccination, and the person has the right to decide that he does not want the vaccine. But maybe the younger people here can convince them. If the argument of some older people has been that younger people need it more, then younger ones may have to turn again to these older ones. That would make sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U222	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U223	Thank you. Prime Minister! To date, not everyone has been able to vaccinate themselves. By allowing the use of a national digital certificate, the government is sending a message that if there is anything lacking, do not listen to government instructions, but sneak, scheme and combine this deficit thing for yourself, because it may be useful in the future. People who did not go into the lively order of vaccinations did not use contacts at the family doctor's office, did not wait at night for the digital registration office to open up until it was time to sign up for the public registration, and now, in a good case, this summer, the test sequence will remain. Why should people continue to follow the direction given by the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U224	Thank you. First of all, the vaccination certificate. The certificate of vaccination proves that the person has received the vaccine. The vaccine is now gaining momentum and new times are constantly being opened. Anyone who wants to vaccinate himself gets it all the time. Now, we haven't had a live line. There has indeed been a queue in the digital register office. In Latvia, for example, people were really allowed to wait on the street in the order of vaccination, and we had to wait in the digital order. Of course, this could have been done better, but with it both ways, there would have been reproach in any case. If only a portion of the vaccination is opened, this is justified for older people, because we want to get them first. But if the coverage is already large enough, how can it be justified to bring the age limit down on a ten-year basis? That's why registration is open to everyone. The more the vaccine is needed, the more the vaccine can be given. Now for the vaccination certificate. This does not give anyone any special rights, but the question is, on the other hand, that if we have certain restrictions, whether certain events can be organised with more people and whether it can be done in such a way that people's health is not at risk. This can be done either by submitting a certificate that I have been vaccinated or by carrying out a rapid test for those who do not have a certificate. And everyone gets to participate in the event, nobody gets left out of it. And I do not agree with what you said on your question, that it is as if we are promoting tipping. Right now, anyone who wants to vaccinate gets an appointment, and I highly recommend it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U225	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U226	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! This parallel with vaccination against influenza is, of course, interesting, but I think that a picture would also be drawn that countries with a higher pension ratio to average wages are also significantly higher than we do. Our lack of vaccination has so far been partly explained by the hesitation of the Russian-speaking population. At the same time, we can see that we will have Võru County as one of the least covered counties. So how do you explain it? How important do you consider such broader social equality or a lack of social inequality, such as access to medical care, access to family medical care, reduced educational stratification, higher income, to be a factor in your preparedness for vaccination?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U227	Thank you. All of these factors can certainly have an effect on the consent of vaccination, and I do not think that this should be the case. In any case, medical care must be available to everyone. I can't explain this Võru phenomenon. In fact, if we look at Võru and Valga in addition to Ida-Virumaa, which is explained by cultural characteristics, this raises questions. Why did I give you an example of a flu vaccine? Because I have been talking to Prime Ministers in other countries about how it is possible that they have 100% of the over 80-year-olds vaccinated. They say it's common, they vaccinate each year [anti-fluid]. It is as if we always have vaccination aimed primarily at children, and it is natural and normal for us to give vaccination to children, but older people do not have this experience, this custom. I can't explain why there's less coverage in Võru and Valgamaa. It could also, of course, have something to do with, I don't know, worse information, perhaps also with channels or people who have more ground there or who are local opinion leaders there. Yeah, maybe it has something to do with it. But I'm speculating right now, I really don't know how to answer that. But I think it's definitely a question of analysis that we didn't see the difference at first, and now we see the difference. Either way, it's harder to get to these people in these counties.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U228	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U229	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, There is no doubt that your government's primary priority is vaccination, and it is amazing that keeping all this information secret is also your priority. Take, for example, the number of reproduction cycles, it is tossed like a hot potato: The Health Board sends it to Kiig, Kiik sends the Foreign Minister to Liimets, from there it ends up back to the Health Board and so on. The same is true of the framework agreements for obtaining vaccines and their injections to the Estonian people. But if there's a lot of people with information, something's gonna drop out. In fact, today I learned that people who work in family medicine centres, family doctors, receive EUR 15 for each vaccinated person and another EUR 5 for each injection by each injecter. In addition, 81% of the additional funding will be provided to hospitals. Why is it financed in this way?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U230	Thank you. It is in everyone's interest that we get enough people vaccinated so that we do not have the next waves and [if it does happen] that we can survive them in such a way that there is no burden on the hospital network and people do not get seriously ill. Of course, this means additional work for health care institutions who are [increasing] in terms of calling people, in terms of their injection, all that comes with vaccination. These are additional tasks provided by health authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U231	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U232	Thank you. Prime Minister! In order to achieve herd immunity, today's knowledge shows that we need at least 70% coverage in society, at least most countries are striving for it. You also mentioned in one of your answers that it is likely that in other age groups there will be a moment of vaccine anxiety. What do you think, or have you analyzed when it's gonna be when we'll have more vaccine than we want? And what's the government's plan for the moment when there's still a bit of land to reach 70% and a beautiful summer ahead of us? [What is the government planning to do] so that it does not happen as it did last year that the necessary preparatory work was not done? It's probably not wise to start thinking about it when we get there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U233	Yeah, I totally agree with you. If we look at older people when [vaccination] started to slow down, it will probably start to slow down at exactly the same place in other age groups, or around 50 to 60%. When we look at the studies that people have been asked about vaccination consent, we see that the acceptance is 65% in the area. From there, we have to convince people. Now, let's look at what other countries are doing who have reached such a place that people need to be vaccinated, but more convincing work is needed. Countries have acted differently in terms of how to convince these people in the end. We know that there are lotteries in America and other tricks like that. We've been thinking about it, and we'll keep thinking about it. One solution is to organise vaccination through employers. For example, if there is a large service facility, the employer's interest is that the attendants have been vaccinated. This means that there may be pressure from colleagues: if one person does not agree to vaccinate himself or is hesitant, yes, let's say that if he is hesitant, then others may say that they do not want to remain in this mask for him, be nice and vaccinate. Then there will be a discussion that what is at the root of these doubts, and perhaps colleagues can reduce these doubts, so that the person will ultimately still be willing to vaccinate himself. But yes, the discussions that the [vaccination] bonus is for us are still ahead of us. In itself, even now, the bonus is that once you have been vaccinated, you do not have to be in isolation when you are in contact with, for example, a sick person. It's a pretty big discount when we think that everyone else has that responsibility. Employers also have a great interest in keeping their employees out of line because they have to be isolated, and therefore employers can convince their people. But yes, we're going to deal with it in the summer, and it's clear that it's going to slow down in the summer, because it seems like the disease is gone and it doesn't have to be [vaccine]. We are also going to have discussions about children, because there was a decision that the Pfizer vaccine would also be suitable for people over 12 years of age. Before going to school, would it be reasonable, of course with the consent of the parents, to arrange for children to be vaccinated so that schools can continue to be open? That's all we want to agree on this summer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U234	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U235	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! You have repeatedly said and also said here that vaccination is in everyone's interest. But at the same time, you pay family doctors EUR 15 per injection to motivate them to vaccinate more, and in the same way you pay injecters EUR 5 per injection to motivate the injection. It gives the impression that interest is not so great and that it is not like everyone's interest, rather it is somehow more [like a few] interest. My question is, who really cares about this vaccination? It seems that people are not very interested in this and that doctors need to be motivated.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U236	First of all, people are interested. Let's look at the same numbers I've read for 80-year-olds or even better, for example, in Hiiumaa, 92.8% of the 70-79-year-olds have been vaccinated. The results of the studies tell us that nearly 70% of people want to be vaccinated. They're outnumbered who don't want it. Understandably, there are also people who cannot be vaccinated. It's all true. But I don't know if the specific amounts you've provided here are true. In answer to this question, I will not automatically accept what you said. There have been things in your claims very often that are not really true. I'll be careful about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U237	Good Prime Minister, there are no more questions for you. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U238	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, A few words for the conclusion of today's debate. Point one. This situation, where we have found ourselves in the last six months and where Estonia took excessive risks under the leadership of the government as at January, reducing the restrictions that led us to reach the top of Europe and also the world, has had a huge impact on Estonian society. The effects are, of course, from a health point of view; today, 1252 people have died, most of them in recent months. Of course, there have also been very significant social impacts, as in the end very strict restrictions were also inevitable and imposed. They will have an impact for a long time to come. We can still see how long it takes to get the situation out of hand back under control. And, of course, the effects have also been very significant in economic terms. The current Minister of Finance accused the previous Minister of the fact that he wrote virtual cuts to the state budget strategy, it is true, it was not good financial practice, but the volume of cuts at that time was 250 million euros a year. The additional budget that had to be received because of the epidemic that had been lost was EUR 650 million or perhaps even EUR 670 million. [[A voice from the hall.]] 641 million, right, sorry! In addition, of course, these losses to the Estonian economy, which do not appear directly in the state budget in the first year and concern the livelihood of companies. It's gone to snow, these mistakes are made, these very bad, negative, unhappy effects are here. And now it's a two-part question. Firstly, in what way is it possible to get out of the restrictions that we have more quickly and in what way in the future, provided that we have to be prepared for the third wave, to be better prepared for it? And undoubtedly, in addition to the general conclusions on how to manage an epidemic with non-pharmacological intervention, or with restrictions on the language of the people, it is a question of how to achieve the coverage of the vaccine. I am just stressing that, in the social context, in addition to being vaccinated, it is not only a personal benefit, but also an overwhelming public meaning that protects people from falling ill, but also that [it helps] to avoid restrictions. That is why, of course, we must look here at the fact that the most effective is the vaccination of older people. Among the 80-year-olds, I have said a lot of these statistics and I repeat, the mortality rate in Estonia is almost 15%. One in five men who have given a positive sample in over 80 years of age is dead. Let's compare this to the 60-year-olds, for example, who have a 1% mortality rate, I think 2% for men, I'm telling you right now. Thus, to treat the 60s and the eighties equally is not adequate. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U239	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U240	The Prime Minister has gone on a slippery path. In fact, it is a logical mistake, unfortunately, to say that we have 60, 70 and 80-year-olds at the hospital as much. Well, there has indeed been just as much in a situation where we have been the first to vaccinate a very large proportion of those most vulnerable, over 80 years of age. If we have, I don't know, three people who have different physical performances of two, one running very fast and the other running very slowly, when you put on three bags of cement very fast, you can't conclude from this that they're running in the same hurry. I'm not running. You've changed the structure of their capabilities. In the same way, you can't compare that there are just as many 60s and eighties in the hospital because you've vaccinated eightys in the first stage with a lot more than 60-year-olds. So in the Estonian context, people over 80 years of age are also predominant in terms of the risk of hospitalisation. When we had 700 patients in the hospital, they obviously caused the greatest overload between a statistically single age group. Why don't the old people want to vaccinate? At first, it was said that there was no vaccine, and indeed, at some point in March, there was no vaccine. In fact, when we submitted this question in April, it was clear that there was a vaccine, but it didn't reach the old people. Of course, there are clearly different reasons, the health system is scattered, some family doctors do better, others do worse. But, in fact, if we look at this situation as a whole, we obviously have shortcomings that require and require pro-active action by the state. On this point, it cannot be assumed that they can see for themselves how they manage. There are two reasons for this. Firstly, of course, we cannot leave the most vulnerable to this disease to die. Recall that the disease is primarily carried on by young people, but the elderly die. Secondly, it is also a question of how to keep the life of society normal, the limitations as lenient as possible. This requires a proactive vaccination of the most elderly. Undoubtedly [may] look at the experiences of different countries, [they] may be discussed. All kinds of hypotheses have been thrown into the air about why some old people want [vaccine] and others do not want it. I don't have time to go into their analysis right now, but in general, it's easy to grasp a few simple explanations in this situation. But as a rule, life is, of course, much more complicated. I think that the question that has not been answered is that, analytically, we can discuss with the Prime Minister and society at large that you see, a bad story, could be better. But that's not enough. Why did we demand in April that we set clear targets, clear targets, along with an action plan, how do we get to them? We need to achieve [target] coverage; greater coverage must be achieved. If the measures so far have not been effective, they must be put in the trash. If they have been inadequate, there must be more to think about, further steps must be taken to reach the goal. Now that the focus went on, this is my last thought on vaccination for the whole of society, [I mention that] we met with Mr Seer in the Group and stressed that, of course, the greatest public pressure is, of course, on the vaccination of people who are fully viable, young, active, they are close to the media, they are more moving around society, they are making the most noise. But they're not the most vulnerable. In a situation where we are opening up opportunities for vaccinating young people, this is, of course, necessary in a situation where we have a vaccine, we must not forget that the top priority in terms of saving lives and health is still the elderly, whom the state must care about. It seems that this is in the background in this process. I hope that progress will still be made here in the coming months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U241	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U242	There is no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that vaccination is a top priority for your government. And this priority is set in such a way that human rights are no longer cared for or anything else. In today's inquiry, Mr Kallas gave a very clear answer to why this mass vaccination is being carried out and why this is a priority. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U243	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U244	Yes, vaccination is a top priority for the government, but anything else that surrounds this priority is a crazy secret. Let's take the PCR tests first to determine if a person may have been exposed to the virus. As far as the PCR test alone is known, the disease cannot be detected. And that number is such a secret that no one says it. The Health Department doesn't say, the esteemed Tanel Kiik doesn't say, the esteemed Foreign Minister Liimets doesn't say, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs doesn't say. All the time, this potato goes from one hand to another, and all the round legal talk is being made, but the simple sentence, "The size of PCR is...", that's what you can't say. I wonder why. Another great national secret is the framework agreements and agreements concluded between the Estonian state and the vaccination companies on how the rights and obligations of the parties in the organisation of vaccinations are divided. The same crazy national secret, such a secret, that a member of the Riigikogu seems to be a completely meaningless person. I asked the officials when Kaja Kallas was replaced by a minister of the Central Party wasn't important, so I wanted to get the framework agreement. They say it's a secret, it can't be shown. Well, we'll go the other way. Last week, I asked our deputy chancellor, Maris Jesse, to see it. No, you can't see it. It's classified. I asked for interest, who is more important in this country, whether the officials holding the document or a member of the Riigikogu who has to adopt laws to ensure that everything is properly and accurately controlled. Maris Jesse said he'd have to check with the lawyers to see if there's any such thing. Tell me again that there is no deep state in Estonia. Isn't that right? Today the drip went through, not here, but I've been constantly receiving information about what's actually happening with vaccination and the lesions of the [what are] vaccination. The staff of two medical institutions gave me information that every vaccinated person receives 15 euros from a family doctor, and 5 euros from an injecter for each injection, of course, depends on the employer. At the same time, hospitals receive up to 80% of the additional funding if all or most of the staff have been vaccinated. That is the question I asked today, Mr Kallas. Kaja Kallas thought long and said that, yes, you have to pay, because people work hard. Here we can find a reason why mass vaccinations are taking place. I very much doubt, of course, that all the benefits that go into this EUR 15 + 5 are only for the benefit of family doctors, I do not think so. The answer to this question would be those framework agreements concluded with vaccine manufacturers. I do not believe that the Estonian state will pay this extra fee to injecters and family doctors. I do not believe that the [cost] of testing will be fully borne by the Estonian state. There is no choice but to obtain the framework agreements on the basis of which vaccination is carried out in Estonia, i.e., I say, medical and scientific research is carried out without informing people. The consequences of this have been fatal for many people. None of the diseases that have been present in Estonia have caused such restrictions on the movement of people as the Korona has done. We've had flu for ten years. There have been nursed, healed, there have also been people who have had to die as a result of this disease, but life has gone on. We just live in this environment. But we keep moving towards the truth, closer to the truth. I am very interested in what happens when all the evidence is clear and who takes responsibility for this mass vaccination, which has destroyed a great many lives, either permanently or in the form of health damage.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U245	Prime Minister Kaja Kallas is now requested to speak. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U246	Thank you. First, I'm going to answer Mr Ossinovski. I would like to make it clear that the restrictions were relaxed by the previous government on 15 January. A factual check has also been carried out on this. On 26 January, we took office and harmonised restrictions, and this also meant stricter restrictions for certain regions. Now for the hospital network load. The aim was to reduce the burden on the hospital network, which is why [the vaccine is] given to the 60+, 70+ and 80+ age groups, because, as I said, in more or less equal parts, they are hospitalised. The burden on the hospital network is equally distributed for these age groups when they receive the disease. That's why we pulled the vaccination to a wider range of older people. And I do not agree with what you said that [our view is that] people over 80 should see for themselves how they can. It's not like that. We're trying to get to them. But we don't have a forced vaccination, as some here say. If a person says he doesn't want to be vaccinated, there's nothing we can do. A person does not want to be vaccinated, and no one will vaccinate him under compulsion. That's right. I'm coming to Kalle Grünthal. In the meantime, I had [his allegations] examined and, as I suspected, the claims and numbers he put to the truth here, of course, are not true. He may be surprised that all health services are financed from the Health Insurance Fund's budget, including taking blood samples, at the cost, and also at the cost of a flu vaccine. All the procedures that are carried out, they all have a price and are financed from the Health Insurance Fund's budget. Now, the numbers you mentioned are not true. The family doctor receives an injection at 5:30, the cost of the injection in the nursing home is 7:30 and the hospital is back at 5:30. If a hospital worker leaves hospital territory to do this injection somewhere else, the price of the injection is 7:30. So these numbers you said aren't just true and I can correct them. But indeed, services pay and are financed by the Health Insurance Fund according to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U247	With this, we are on this item... Evgeny Ossinovski, is there a request for a rejoinder? Okay, please, rejoinder request.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U248	Thank you! I'm just going to make a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little It is undoubtedly possible that there are as many 60-69-year-olds in hospital as there are over 80-year-olds in absolute numbers. But, of course, it should be borne in mind that the age structure of Estonian society is such that there are people aged 60 to 69, I say by heart, I could not control now, about twice as many as people over 80. This means that as a percentage of this age group, when we talk about which age group has the highest risk of being hospitalised, this risk is undoubtedly the highest in the age group over 80. And the reason why this number is important in the context of vaccination is that society has to answer the question of which age group vaccination can have the fastest effect on reducing hospitalisation. Given that the age group over 80 is smaller and that there is an exponentially higher risk of hospitalisation, the quickest and easiest way to reduce the need for hospitalisation is precisely the vaccination of this group. We already see today that, for example, in Ida-Virumaa, disease is twice as high, per capita infection is twice as high as on average in Estonia, perhaps even a little more, then we see that vaccination actually has a positive health effect, the vaccine is working. And just like that, since vaccinations began earlier than 80 years of age, in addition to the other differences in population composition, of course, this affects what these hospital numbers are. Therefore, from this hospital number, which the Prime Minister correctly says, it cannot be concluded that the risk of hospitalisation in these age groups is equal. Not equal! It's very different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U249	We have now exhausted this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U250	We will go to the fifth item on the agenda, which is an inquiry by Riina Sikkut, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Eduard Odinets, Helmen Küti and Lauri Läänemets, members of the Riigikogu, concerning the White Paper and discrimination. In the name of the heirs, a speech chair is welcome from Riina Sikkut. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U251	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, That was a month and a half ago when we were here discussing the White Paper introduced by the Prime Minister. Indeed, the plan to organise society in the context of the spread of the virus was undoubtedly needed and still needed. Its focus is on controlling the spread of the virus. Just before the current question is made, we were talking about vaccination, and we are still seeing how a plan is needed to achieve the agreed target at all. The spread of the virus entails the risk of restrictions, economic damage and health effects. In the case of vaccination, we are talking in the same way about deaths or lives saved, effects on health. However, it has been overlooked how society will operate in a situation where some people have been vaccinated, some have been given the opportunity to vaccinate but have given up, and some have not yet been vaccinated. We have this situation now. Although the vaccine is increasing and more people, perhaps children, will be able to vaccinate against the coronavirus, it has still not been possible for many to achieve full immunity. This situation, which does not directly lead to damage to health or death, is overlooked. This is to some extent understandable, but it cannot be considered right in any way, because the choices that employers, various service providers make are very important and sometimes very painful. If the Social Democrats have asked both the Prime Minister and many other ministers how, for example, the state will use a national digital certificate, how it will be spoken to or put in place with service providers who must or will not be served or what the rights of the service provider are, then the answer has so far been that the state will not intervene in what requirements the private sector will impose. Now, somewhat unexpectedly, the government decided that, in the event of major events, intervention would take place and that admission would be granted on the basis of a certificate, a negative test result or a rapid test result. It's really nice that summer events can take place. But relatively unscheduled, exceptionally communicating such a decision has, in my opinion, raised more questions than answers. In addition to the subject of major events, there is another subject that has been acutely raised. It is a demand for vaccination at certain workplaces, then it is an ambulance in Tallinn that has been acutely media-traveled, or hospitals and care facilities where the employee's vaccination decision actually affects how dangerous or safe it is to get a service for the patient or customer. We are in a situation where a digital certificate exists and it is very nice that it can be used across Europe. In the case of a Europe-wide digital certificate, it is said that its use is temporary and that when the pandemic passes, this type of vaccination status will not be checked by people. But what is still asking me and the Group of the Social Democratic Party is, in fact, that health data, which we have defended so far, because we treat them as sensitive personal data, can be asked at any door. Who has the right to ask for health information and how to use it? Can this information be recorded? Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U252	No, I'm sorry, I can't.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U253	Similarly, how can we deal with situations where each service provider starts to establish rules himself? How will dissatisfaction and resentment be eased? How will situations of discrimination be resolved? However, bearing the costs of the rapid test may result in access to certain services being more expensive for some people at the cost of the test. We hope that we will receive some answers and, in any case, we will encourage such ethical issues to be put in place before the service providers themselves begin to put them in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U254	Prime Minister Kaja Kallas will answer the questions. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U255	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Good heirs! First of all, I would like to start by saying that if there are no restrictions, there is no reason to use this certificate, in the sense that everything is free and it doesn't matter. The idea of this certificate at national level only comes into play if we have restrictions and organisers of events whose activities are severely restricted by these restrictions. And the purpose of the restrictions is to limit the spread of an infectious disease, or to prevent the spread of an infectious disease. If there are people who have proved, either with a test or with a certificate, that they are not spreading this infectious disease, then in fact, these people can be allowed more in one place. The point is, however, to come up with solutions for cases where we have restrictions, the freedom of certain businesses to act is limited, because we want to prevent the spread of infectious diseases. That's the main thing. The Health Board could get to take this package and say that if you meet these requirements, you organise it yourself and it all works, you can, for example, make an event with more people. Now I will go to specific questions. "Who has the right to ask a person for a vaccination certificate, proof of coronation and a negative test result? " First of all, when I answered the previous questions about [inquiry], I said that those people who are willing to get vaccinated are about 70%. In fact, around 80% of those interviewed were willing to get vaccinated. It's important. Data and negative test result from the transmission of the disease are health data. According to the Data Protection Act, these special categories of personal data are permitted only if strictly necessary and only in the following cases: (1) the admissibility of the processing is provided for in the law, (2) the processing is necessary for the protection of the vital interests of the data subject or of another natural person, or (3) the processing is carried out by the data subject himself or herself. Anyone who asks a person for a vaccination certificate must make sure that he fulfils these necessary conditions. The Chancellor of Justice, in cooperation with the State Chancellery, has carried out this legal analysis of how it can still be used and how to avoid discrimination in such cases. Sorry, the language is already in the knot, so much has been said here today! One possible case is that a person consents that he or she wants to go to that event. He doesn't have to go there, but he wants to go to that event, and then he's either willing to have himself tested to tell me if he's safe or to show you that evidence. The second question: "Why cannot customers be required to serve regardless of their vaccination status? " § 12 (1) of the Constitution provides for a fundamental right to equality, including a prohibition of discrimination. The fundamental right to equality, as well as other fundamental rights, is addressed by a public authority. Fundamental rights bind the state and other public authorities. This means that the state must not treat fundamental rights holders unequally without due cause. However, the fundamental right of equality resulting from § 12 (1) of the Constitution does not fully bind individuals. The Constitution also includes the freedom to conduct a business under § 31 and the freedom of contract under § 19 (1). Thus, individuals and businesses are in principle free to decide for themselves how to organise their own business and who to enter into contractual relations with. In certain cases, the State has by law restricted the freedom of contract for private persons and prohibited them from discriminate against other persons. Thus, discrimination based on nationality, race, colour for goods and services offered to the public, including housing, is prohibited. However, in the absence of a corresponding prohibition of discrimination in the law, a private individual is free to decide whether and to whom he or she will conclude the contract. The state guarantees access to the services it provides to all equally, regardless of vaccination. However, if a service is intended to be provided only to vaccinees, it must not conflict with the fundamental right of equality arising from § 3 of the Constitution. The third question: "If every cafe, gym, bank and shopping centre decides whether it serves vaccinated or unvaccinated people, how is equal treatment of people and access to the services necessary for life guaranteed? " Yes, as I have said, the main objective of entrepreneurship is still to provide the service rather than to provide it. It is therefore not really in the interests of these companies to restrict people's access. However, when we look around the world, we see that if there are restrictions, certain companies have seen it as their own competitive advantage to say that everything is controlled here, everything is safe here. There will certainly also be companies that say the exact opposite. I read in the paper how things like the radiation of vaccinations are spreading in Estonia, people believe such nonsense, and there are service companies that say that they do not allow vaccinated people there. In this sense, the state can intervene in relations between private individuals by imposing prohibitions on unequal treatment. In this case, it is a principle of business freedom, and I believe that it is just a relatively small number of people who restrict those who are vaccinated, given that 78% of people in Estonia want to be vaccinated. But this niche is definitely there if really people believe that there is such a thing as vaccine radiation. Fourthly, do you see that there should be different rules for servicing non-vaccinated and voluntarily unvaccinated people for health reasons? " A voluntary large-scale vaccination is necessary because it affects both those who have been vaccinated and those who cannot be vaccinated for any health reason. The coverage of more than 70% of vaccinees also leads to a situation where those who cannot be vaccinated for health reasons are better protected against the virus. Therefore, once again, the country cannot impose restrictions on discrimination against non-vaccinated people. But if the question is that they want to prove who is safe for others, there are different ways of doing so: either you prove that you have been vaccinated, or you present a negative test result, or the organiser of the event allows for a quick test on the spot. Fifth: "We agree on rules for living with the virus in the form of a White Paper in order to prevent the spread of the virus, but agreements on the use of a vaccination certificate are also needed. For example, do school management, schoolteachers and parents have the right to ask for information about [---] vaccinations? Can an unvaccinated teacher teach contact training lessons in the autumn?" [Inquiry] There are more questions. Vaccination is and will remain a voluntary activity in Estonia. However, during the risk assessment, the employer must determine the risk, nature, size and duration of the worker's infection. In accordance with the risk assessment, measures must be taken to prevent and reduce the effects of a hazard. On the one hand, people have the right to physical integrity, but on the other, people have the right to life and health. If [workers] are people with a weaker immune system and the person who works there is a threat to them, then the employer can actually say that vaccination is necessary, otherwise they will be a threat to others. Yeah, you can't and mustn't force the workers to vaccinate, and, as I said, it goes against the principle of physical integrity. However, it can be arranged by agreement whether the employer has to reorganize his work or provide additional personal or general protective equipment. There is also a risk that, in justified cases, the contract of employment will be cancelled in exceptional circumstances, as the employer will not be reasonably able to reorganize the work in such a way that the person is not a danger to others. Sixth: "Who and how will solve cases where people are discriminated against on the basis of vaccination status? "The Gender Equality and Equal Treatment Commissioner monitors compliance with the requirements of the Equal Treatment Act, advises and assists individuals in submitting complaints concerning discrimination and gives opinions on the existence of possible discrimination on the basis of a person's application and on the basis of information received to him on his own initiative. These disputes are finally settled by the Court and the Labour Dispute Committee. In conciliation proceedings, these disputes shall also be settled by the Chancellor of Justice. Seventhly, do you see that in the autumn, every person in Estonia can decide for themselves whether to vaccinate himself or not, and that the vaccination decisions taken do not affect the functioning of society, just as no one is asking for information about the vaccination against measles or influenza? " Yes, we need to learn to live with this virus, and we need to consider the possibility that people need to be vaccinated in order to maintain their normal lives. And it [of course] is likely to have to be re-examined from time to time. Eight: "The White Book says that... " I can't read it all, I see that time is running out, and I can't answer. The question is whether there is a realistic expectation that getting the virus under control with the vaccine will be a matter of months, and what are the prerequisites for the vaccine coverage, the emergence of new strains, the price of the vaccine, the free availability of the vaccine to people so that the virus can be controlled. On the contrary, the principle of the White Paper is that we need to learn to live with this virus, which is that we actually cannot get rid of this virus, and we must rather consider that we have to vaccinate, that we probably have to revaccinated, and that human behaviour also plays a very important role. The idea of the White Paper is also to make people see what we can do together so that businesses do not go down, theaters do not go down, restaurants do not go down, we should not impose tougher restrictions, but we should be able to control the spread of the virus so that we can live with it, even if people still fall ill. But hopefully, you won't get that sick again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U256	The round of questions will begin Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U257	Thank you. For some reason, the government treats the introduction of a vaccination obligation for workers and the internal use of a digital certificate as issues in which the government has no need or obligation to do anything other than provide a vaccination option and create a digital certificate. At the same time, vaccination obligations and the use of digital certificates require very complex ethical and equal treatment choices. Question: why did the government simply opt out of making these choices?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U258	Thank you. Firstly, we discussed this certificate just last week and we will discuss it again tomorrow, that is the new question. As long as vaccination coverage has been low and the availability of vaccines has been low, there is no point in creating the expectation that there will be any possibility of using this certificate if these people simply do not exist. Now, there are two sides to this vaccination certificate: one is national and the other is cross-border. What is agreed in Europe is how we can use this certificate in such a way that people should not remain isolated when crossing borders. And that is what we have also promised that those who can prove that they have been vaccinated do not have to be in the isolation that has actually been agreed now and can move freely. The other side is a national side. When we look at the behaviour of other countries, we see that it has been very, very different. In Denmark, for example, it is possible to go to a hairdresser when showing a vaccination certificate, while in other countries it is not conceivable that this vaccination certificate can be used nationally in such a way as to restrict the availability of any services to other people. But once the restrictions are removed, there is no need to require or use this certificate, because all events can take place without it. And on the contrary, we are dealing with this in order to come up with these packages, how, for example, major events can also take place under conditions where we still have restrictions. But we've reached the point that we can't say that using this certificate, some people get more rights. This is because we do not want to discriminate against anyone, and that is already the position. In the sense that we are not going into this path simply because we cannot avoid this discrimination. There are people who do not want to be vaccinated, people who must not be vaccinated or who cannot be vaccinated for their own health. They must not be left without what the state is offering.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U259	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U260	Thank you. I very much agree with you that the best way to organise events and to open up social services at all is to suppress the general epidemic and that vaccination passports are, however, very temporary and very limited in the rule of law [the solution]. But I think that not everyone sees it in this way, and therefore I think it would be important that I am surprised that it has not been done so far, that the Social Democrats have also proposed to you in the context of this White Paper to convene an Ethics Council to issue public instructions to these service providers. Well, one question, as I said, is whether or not to go to a concert. The person decides, he doesn't have to go. But what if, for example, unvaccinated people aren't allowed into the only store in the village? Is that okay? In fact, there may be many cases of this type, even more cases of borderline. Is this type of instruction ever coming up?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U261	Unlike you, I do not think that there will be many of these cases, because the entrepreneur wants to provide his services and sell goods to as many people as possible. In his nature, there is no limit to the number of people who visit his shop, rather the opposite. Rather, we have always had a problem with the fact that restrictions are not respected because more people are wanted to serve. So I do not really believe that this is going to be such a problem that it should be dealt with in such a way as to lay down specific rules for companies on how they can or cannot operate. If this problem arises, we can continue to discuss it, but I do not think it would be worth spending time simply on discussions if we do not yet see that there is a problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U262	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U263	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! I absolutely disagree with this latter, that we can only react when the problem arises. There is no doubt that private service providers want to serve as many people as possible and make a profit. But whether they serve vaccinated or unvaccinated people can be a completely separate marketing problem. This is how to gain an advantage in the market and to separate and earn profits. The question is whether it comes at the expense of unequal treatment and restriction of rights. This is undoubtedly the place where the state should intervene. But I come back to you saying that we really have to learn to live with this virus, that it's a longer-term process we're going through here as a society. This means that frequent indoor cleaning, investment in ventilation and detergents, masks, all of this is the cost that employers will bear this year, next year and perhaps over a longer period of time. The cost of rapid tests may also be added to some regularity. These costs must be covered. Does this mean that the cost of an event ticket, a sports club's monthly card or a swimming hour may vary for a vaccinated and unvaccinated person?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U264	Vaccination is and will remain voluntary and discrimination on this basis is not allowed. I would say that if such a case occurs, the Chancellor of Justice should certainly resolve whether or not it is justified. In other words, everyone's goal is to avoid imposing heavy restrictions again, and then people will prove whether they are safe or not. It is in everyone's interest, in the interests of society as a whole, that there should not be another epidemiological situation that gets out of hand. Therefore, this may be necessary. But I think two things should be looked at separately here. One is the basis on which the State takes its decisions and on which it must give reasons for its decisions. And the other half is why the private sector makes its decisions. I can't imagine that we're going to surround everything. I mean, if you want to go to the swimming pool for example, they'll check you for foot cover, because you're dangerous to others when you have a footcap. By the same logic, you might ask if you are dangerous for any other reason. But once again, essentially the private sector wants to provide a service rather than not.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U265	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U266	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The Estonian Conservative People's Party has submitted a draft to make compulsory vaccination punishable. This concept includes not only violent and forced vaccination, but also indirect influence on vaccination, as well as pressure from the employer, etc. I have asked you about this in this very Chamber, but you say that there is no compulsory vaccination in Estonia. And now that the draft is in the Committee on Legal Affairs for the first time on Thursday in defence, the Government of the Republic has announced that we do not support this draft because there is no forced vaccination in Estonia either directly or indirectly by influencing it. Is it the same opinion that there is no forced vaccination in Estonia by the definition I mentioned?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U267	Thank you. Yes, there is no compulsory vaccination in Estonia. Vaccination is voluntary in Estonia. Period.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U268	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U269	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! I'm asking about the children's vaccination. Gymnastics are already known to be called for vaccination, and younger ones are also planned to attend. As far as I know, Liina Kersna has already said that vaccination must go to younger and younger age groups, school grades. But now let's see that you have a plan to start vaccinating children from the point of view that the parent still decides to vaccinate the child. How do you intend to organise this if parents are massively refusing and that is their right? These are still experimental vaccines, and the general principle in the European Union is, I recall, that we are not experimenting with children. According to what principle are you planning mass vaccination of schoolchildren and how do you intend to put pressure on children and parents and how do you intend to separate those children who have been vaccinated and who are not, who cannot go to school, who cannot go to groups of interests, who do exercises, etc.? What is your vision of vaccination of children?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U270	Thank you. I will start from behind: no one will discriminate against any child. Again, this argument is not true. But the vaccination of children will be arranged as the vaccination of children is arranged, that is, with the consent of the parent. Even now, whether it is measles vaccination or, I do not know, vaccination against influenza or cervical cancer, it is with the consent of the parents, and that is exactly how it is done when vaccination against COVID-19 is carried out. The parent is asked for consent, and if the parent agrees, the child will be vaccinated. And since 78% of people in Estonia want to be vaccinated, I would say that most probably also wish to vaccinate their children.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U271	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U272	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! With the justification that the previous government was a larister, your government has now failed to fund children's interest education as a result of cuts made under the heading of budget balance and has put the brass orchestras of the Defence Forces and the Police and Border Guard Board at risk of redundancy, as well as the repayment of interest on home loans. At the same time, your government has decided to give away free of charge, perhaps to give away a million worth of vaccines purchased for our country's money that have not been used. Please explain where the balance is.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U273	Firstly, children's recreational education is organised by the local government, and for this the local government also has the appropriate resources. Over 100 million have been given to local authorities to organise children's recreational education. Similarly, defence costs will in no way fall below 2% of GDP, even though your own party's finance minister really said that billions of cuts were simply written, empty items in the state budget so that expenditure could be made against it. It's just irresponsible. Coming to your question, the donation of vaccines is a European value zone and one agreement in the European Union that, if you already have people vaccinated, it is in the third-fourth quarter, the remaining vaccines can support other countries. In order to improve the epidemiological situation, vaccination coverage in other countries should be above 70%. Unfortunately, not all countries are as prosperous as the countries of the European Union, so we also have a responsibility to others. It is our desire to support the Eastern Partnership countries, Ukraine, Georgia, which will benefit from these vaccines.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U274	Good Prime Minister, the members of the Riigikogu have no more questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. There are requests to speak. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U275	Of course there are requests to speak! A very interesting debate, I think. A little late, but still. The situation is that the government decided the priority groups for vaccination. Today we have discussed how well or poorly they have succeeded in achieving a high level of coverage, but undoubtedly priority groups have been selected. The government set up the vaccination arrangements and decided to extend the difference between two injections for the AstraZeneca vaccine, for example. So whether a person has received two injections of vaccine by now depends much on the government's decisions to date. Some were so-called lucky. He became a priority group and is now able to prove his or her vaccination and access anywhere by digital proof, access to this self-insulation in close contact or return from abroad. Access to major events and possibly access to other service providers, if the private sector so decides, now also depends on the vaccination status. However, in a situation where it has not been possible for everyone to be vaccinated by now, but it is already beginning to be possible to use such a digital certificate at national level, it really, as Heljo Pikhof said here today beautifully, sends out a message that if there is something lacking, it must be obtained as soon as possible. Despite what the government's instructions have been, combine this deficit thing for yourself, because you don't know, it might be useful in the future, you might get additional rights, you might be easier to do one thing or another. I'm sure there were people who went to get a vaccine, but even though they were not the target group, they used contacts, they waited for the digital registration to open up to make an appointment quickly. How can we motivate government guidance to be followed in the future if it is not agreed in advance, what rules does society follow? A very unfortunate situation! Due to the big events taking place this summer, which no doubt many people are waiting for and the sector is waiting for economic activity to be opened, for example, Kertu Orro, the head of the Estonian Concert, has confirmed that quick testing is free of charge for the audience of Saaremaa Opera Days. It is really good that the costs of rapid testing are seen as a natural part of the organisation of the event, so that the person who needs to be tested does not have to cover these costs. The question is whether this should be the norm or whether there is a difference, for example, that the organisers of an event with public support allow free testing, but private service providers demand the cost of the test from the person. This means that cultural participation means for some people, in addition to the ticket, covering the cost of the test. Now, whether business motivation still ensures that people are encouraged to provide services to all, or what it really means is that it is used somehow to serve this niche only to people who are vaccinated or unvaccinated. That's the question we're going to get an answer to. I don't think it's a thing to experiment with. There is no doubt that there is a need for the government's position on how to ensure that fundamental rights are protected for the people and what kind of commercial campaign should be allowed and what kind of campaign should not be allowed. For example, maintaining a wash of hands or a distance was a government recommendation. The decision that such a requirement would be imposed was clearly there and the entrepreneur was free to choose whether to solve the matter humorously, to print out simply a blue-orange factsheet issued by the Health Board, or to make an effective graphic design. I'm gonna ask for three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U276	It's really possible now. Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U277	Excellent! But now, if the question is much more important than how to inform about washing hands or keeping a distance, there are absolutely free hands on how to use the digital certificate internally. Who's asking for proof? How does he ask for evidence and how does he conduct the test? This inevitably creates misunderstandings about which rules apply. There may be resentment for service providers and for some people losing their service. It is completely incomprehensible why there has been no ethics council, no cross-party body in the Riigikogu, or any other platform to solve such a complex issue, which would actually lead to public debate and allow good practice to be agreed. There is no doubt that this is not a question that, as we heard through the Prime Minister's mouth, we are looking at, perhaps nothing will happen and, if it does, we will react afterwards. This actually requires a proactive solution from the government. For those who suffer, those whose rights are violated, are still in some kind of unequal position and hope that they will claim their rights through the courts, are in no way humane or justified. The crisis is what puts us in front of fundamental issues where it is important for society both to discuss them and to find a solution that does not offend anyone's fundamental rights. An example that has actually been through this several times is the availability of a hairdresser service, which Denmark only allows on the basis of a digital certificate. Or the only grocery store in the village has the right to ask for a negative test result or a vaccination certificate. These may seem somewhat humorous situations, for example on the street, we can draw conclusions from the organization of hairstyles as to whether a person has been vaccinated or not, but in fact these are serious issues that are beginning to affect the functioning of our society both now in the summer and possibly over a much longer period. You can't run a society with an Excel table or traffic light alone. In fact, such debates requiring ethical choices and protection of rights are essential in times of crisis. These are not things that naturally or simply resolve. The government's understanding of the importance of these choices and of the seriousness or criticality of this situation is important, as is its willingness to engage proactively and comprehensively in these discussions and find solutions, not simply to deal with cases of discrimination afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U278	Kalle Grünthal, please! Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U279	Ladies and gentlemen, At last week's press conference, Prime Minister Kaja Kallas and Central Party Minister for Health and Labour Tanel Kiik announced that in the future only those who have suffered from the Corona virus will be able to participate in travel and major events, or have been vaccinated against COVID-19. Tanel Kiik later added that it is important to avoid discrimination when taking a digital certificate into service. Way to go, Tanel! We believe you. Today, we learned from the esteemed Kaja Kallas that there is no direct, indirect or employer pressure vaccination in Estonia, and therefore we do not need to criminalise the draft amendment of the Penal Code initiated by the Estonian Conservative People's Party, or make compulsory vaccination punishable. Thank you, Kaja Kallas! We are very pleased that there is such positive news that we do not have a compulsory vaccination. But life is a little different. First case. On May 29th, let's say his name is Marju, at 10:20 p.m. a message came from him: "Hello, Kalle! I work in a medical facility. What I've been through was awful. I nursed through the corona, had a mild cold, had no fever. On arrival at work, I was ordered to wear the mask (everyone does) plus the visor. If you usually deal with a COVID patient for a maximum of three hours, I'm dealt with 24 hours. I can go to dinner if the others aren't in the room. But there's always someone there, and I have no right to exorcise others. I didn't eat long, I got sick. All I could do was go to the bathroom and eat. They told me to make two vaccines, so I can eat with the others in the same room. I got a total psycho-trauma from it. I don't know why, but I wanted to write you about it. I certainly don't want a vaccine. I'm trying to hold on somehow, even though they're trying to pry. I hope this vaccine madness ends soon. Thank you for your attention. " At 6:30 today, I sent him a message in return: " Can I bring it to the public? " At 7:18 a.m., the reply came from Marju: " Yes, you may, but don't mention the name. What's going on is very inhuman, frankly. I've had suicidal thoughts in my head. " No doubt this is not discrimination, good Kaja Kallas. But this case resembles Hitler's Germany, where Jews were forced to clean streets with a toothbrush. Another case: "At work this morning, there was a meeting where the boss decided that unvaccinated people would be left with a mask and a visor. They wanted to take the masking obligation away from others who have been vaccinated, but since I'm at work and there are some others that have not been vaccinated, the rest of the rest have to wear masks in the rest of the rest of the rest of the rest of the restroom and in the hallway. They say if I walk past people vaccinated without a visor and it doesn't have a mask on it, the vaccinated worker has to go to the COVID test. Now I'm a total disgrace. Basically, I feel like I have to leave because of pressure. Oh, yeah, if any of the employees can see me without a visor, he's gonna have to tell me, "Put the visor in front! " This means that all personnel are under an obligation and that the threat of withdrawal of the premium has been made. " Right! We have no discrimination; it is all in the interests of society, good Kaja Kallas. The woods are cut, flying chips. Case three. Next to the door of the smoking room of Järvamaa Hospital, there is a label "Three workers vaccinated against COVID-19 are allowed in the smoking room at the same time." Under it is the label "A person who has not been vaccinated against COVID-19 may be present in the smoke room at any time." The rule is 24/7. The fourth case. Transmitting intel. The regional hospital has decided that only students who have vaccinated themselves will be admitted since 1 July. "Until 1 July, we accept students who have taken one dose of vaccine. In the case of Comirnaty, seven days after the second dose of vaccine, 14 days after the second dose of vaccine in the case of COVID-19 in the case of Moderna, 15 days after the second dose of vaccine in the case of Vaxzevria, 14 days after the vaccine in the case of COVID-19 in the case of Janssen. Welcome to Ave Kikas (the issuer of this message). " Hooray! We do not have discrimination, indeed we do not. In these last two cases, I somehow recall an adventure in America's recent history. This was the next one. There were signs in the buses and there were stores-schools that were written "White Only" on them. In our society, the label "Only for whites" has been replaced by the label "Only for vaccinees." Thank you, Kallas and Rock, for not having a forced vaccination and discrimination. Good luck with your work.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U280	Jevgeni Ossinovski, your turn.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U281	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like some more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U282	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U283	Mr Grünthal, at least in the case of this Marju story, perhaps as a member of the Riigikogu, instead of giving speeches here, you would direct the person to the place he needs to be able to solve his problem and protect his rights. I think it's possible. But I don't know if it's the most effective way to talk about it in the Riigikogu. I will make a few more general remarks on granting extra rights to vaccinees. Point one, however, we should, and I am pleased that the Prime Minister too had this mind to get there to try and get everyone involved at all events, i.e. to try to bring the epidemiological situation to such a level that neither vaccinees nor non-vaccines should be discriminated against. It's hard, but it's possible. In the case of the discussion of the vaccination certificate, there is, in fact, a risk of working against the mitigation of the epidemiological situation in such a way that, as the vaccinees are given their freedoms back, this broader social pressure will disappear to work together to reach that green zone. Since most people can already, let them have more of them. I hope that we will not be able to do so and that we will see this discussion of the vaccination certificate [and use] in a very short and very limited manner. I believe it would be essential that the state not necessarily restricts this by some strict rules, but issue a guide which has been discussed with lawyers and ethicians and which could guide citizens and could also guide businesses in imposing restrictions. Now, more specifically, why this discrimination against those who are vaccinated should be subject to positive discrimination and to negative discrimination against others, as is still the case with discrimination, and what is important to note in this regard. We talk very often, and also the Prime Minister in his reply said that if someone has been vaccinated, he will be safe, or if someone has taken a quick test, he will be safe. Note: The [false negative] percentage of rapid tests is very high. They detect a very precise number of viral particles, but that's when people are already symptomatic. We know that the disease is contagious at least the day before the onset of the symptoms, but at that time the rays are generally still showing a fine negative result so that a person can go and infect a whole bunch of people. In the case of vaccinated individuals, according to current data, at least information provided by the European Centre for Disease Control, at least for some vaccines, transmission has also been observed in about 30% of those who are fully vaccinated still carry the disease. Now let's imagine that a person is fully vaccinated, comes to a big event, gets in nicely without problems, and there is another person at the same event who has not been vaccinated, but has been in isolation in the summer house for two weeks and has not met anyone, then objectively this vaccinated person, who has been vaccinated, but who has, for example, lived a very active social life, more dangerous than the person who has not been vaccinated. So, on the basis of the individual's risk, we cannot actually make these discrimination decisions, so it is not factually right to do so. But we will. The reasoning behind this is, of course, to manage risks more widely. We expect that vaccinated people as a whole will carry the infection less, just as we expect that people who sit in isolation at home will carry the disease less, which is why we are also introducing an isolation requirement. And now the question is that, since we are not dealing with individual risks but with the risk of social governance, we really need not to look at individual risks, but rather at the epidemiological situation in society as a whole. And undoubtedly coming back in this context, the most important and easiest thing really is to work towards giving everyone the rights, or finally getting the situation under control. Why is the granting of additional rights this summer problematic? Because it's double discriminatory. Those who have now received two doses of vaccine according to the rules are the people who received them on the basis of a government decision, including me, who have been given the vaccine priority. There's a lot of these people. Of course, there are reasons why these people have come into these groups, but it has been the arbiter decision of the government to vaccinate these people first. There are also people who have received the vaccine in another way, such that somehow it has happened. Some family doctor lists are those where the elderly have hardly been vaccinated at all, but the 30-year-olds have been vaccinated with a whole bunch, and there are those who have largely vaccinated all of their elderly, but the vaccine has not continued for young people. I guess that's part of the explanation for how it is that we, who are here in our thirties and forties, at one point, a month or two ago began to notice that some of our kind have suddenly received a vaccine somewhere along the way. And others have conscientiously waited until the state says that it is now their turn. Since most of the younger vaccinees will only be vaccinated this month and next month, they will be fully vaccinated in August or September. In fact, it cannot be said that everyone has been given an opportunity today. I haven't given everyone that chance. Very few people have been given the option of being fully vaccinated for the summer. As a result, the granting of these people additional rights must be very cautious; it must be considered and, in certain cases, justified. For example, what Mr Sikkut told me seemed very sympathetic to the proposal of the Estonian Concert, that some events with a symbolic meaning, such as the Saaremaa Opera Days, would work together to find a way to organise the event in this way. However, we consider it very important not to create a separate cash queue for those who have been favoured by the government and for those who have not received preferential treatment and who should start paying more for their ticket. This would be part of the overall evaluation of the event so that, once again, all people can receive a service on an equal footing based on the general principle of equal treatment, because we are managing not an individual's risk but a social risk. And therefore, in this context, too, when these rights are granted, the costs should not vary from person to person, because the risks are largely not individual, but common. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U284	And now, please, Prime Minister Kaja Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U285	Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, thank you for this debate. All over the world, these discussions are at an early stage. And I myself read a lot about it because it is a very exciting subject: to understand how different countries are approaching it. Now, we do not directly have a committee on ethics, but we have a committee convened by the Chancellor of Justice to discuss these options from a legal and discriminatory point of view. We also have a steering group in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications that takes into account both the proposals of the Chancellor of Justice Group and all the other problems that you raised. But I don't think we can anticipate all the possibilities right now. That is why we must also avoid overregulation, given that we have something like this at the moment. We don't give extra privileges to the vaccinators. If we were to give them extra rights, that means we are discriminated against, but we are not giving them extra rights. What is currently agreed is only in case we still have restrictions on how you can prove your safety to others. The same example of ERSO, ERSO applied for a separate permit, or Saaremaa Opera Days applied for a separate permit, and then the Health Board, in cooperation with the Government, discussed the conditions under which it could be organised. I also want to say that we still have the freedom to conduct a business. Think, we have a whole range of services that are not available to everyone, and for which there is no justification why its availability is limited. There are some kind of spas that are open only to [at least] 21-year-olds. Why not 18-year-olds? Why are they being restricted? It is equally a freedom to conduct a business. But someone can say it's discrimination, I want it too. Or, I don't know, nightclubs are subject to restrictions. Of course, I haven't been to a nightclub in a long time, I can't remember, but if I've ever been there, there were restrictions, like clothes, how they let you in or don't let you in. So, in fact, we also have cases where entrepreneurs themselves are restricting. And now that there is discrimination, we have two places where these people can complain, and as a result, things have actually been changed. One place is the Chancellor of Justice and the other is the Commissioner for Equal Treatment, just for verification. In fact, we have also had a number of cases in the Chamber of Riigikogu where, on the basis of a case-by-case basis, the Chancellor of Justice has assessed and found that this is a restriction of fundamental rights that cannot be done in this form. Then we have changed the law to create a situation where we do not have such discrimination. We certainly do not have a finished solution at the moment. What I said is that the primary objective is to alleviate the restrictions so that we do not have such a need at all, but we must be prepared that, if we have restrictions, we will limit businesses as little as possible so that they can continue to do so. I'm talking about event organizers, for example. Then there's one package, one way to do it. But a couple of good questions you had, I'll take it to the next discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U286	With this, we have exhausted this item. We still have the sixth item on the agenda, but before we go to the sixth item, ladies and gentlemen, I apologise and take a five-minute break from the President.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U287	Good fellows! The chairman's break is closed, we are at the sixth item on the agenda, which is an inquiry by Mart Helme, Urmas Reitelmann, Kalle Grünthali, Peeter Ernitsa, Kert Kingo, Martin Helme, Leo Kunnas, Alar Laneman, Henn Põljaasa, Reuben Kaalepi, Helle-Moonika Helme, Paul Puustusmaa, Rene Koka and Jaak Valge into the restriction of the human rights of Tibetans by the People's Republic of China. The inquiry shall bear number 71 and the request shall be answered by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Eva-Maria Liimets. I ask the representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair, Mart Helme, member of the Riigikogu, to introduce the questioning to the Estonian public. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U288	Dear Chairman, Minister, thank you very much. Colleagues, as many as there are in this room or office! This inquiry is inspired by the outstanding concern of the Estonian political elite in human rights matters when it comes to Belarus, for example. As we know, we had here today a Belarusian dissident, Tsikhanovskaya, who was accepted at a very high level. We are also always very concerned when, for example, in Burma, human rights are violated. We are very concerned when it comes to human rights violations in Russia somewhere. But somehow we are not at all concerned when, in some regions or in some people, this is a clear, long-term, decades of human rights violations, because it is obvious that we do not want to violate our relations with certain major powers. Members of our group consider this to be hypocritical, consider it to be a value-based foreign policy, and that is why this question has been made. Why Tibet? Why the Tibetans? Because in Tibet we are dealing with one of the most unique civilizations in the world. This is a Buddhist civilization in Tibet, the derivatives of which we can also find in Mongolia, Burjaatia and Bhutan, but whose motherland, the heartland, is maintained by the Tibetan people. Tibetans are today a clear victim of genocide in their own country. Tibetans have already been minorityed in their capital, Lhasa. Of the hundreds of Tibetan monasteries, many are in ruins. Tibetan religious movements, Tibetan religious Buddhists, are massively and systematically persecuted, imprisoned. Their self-burning protests are virtually ignored by the rest of the world. Military soldiers raping nuns, policemen, and just Chinese civilians. This is a disgusting, screaming, systematic and, as has been said, decades of human rights violations, which Estonia has not paid attention to either. I would remind you that the Dalai Lama has been in Estonia several times and only one Estonian leader, Arnold Rüütel, has grown to meet him. Everyone else has found that they have something more important, urgent ahead, and they have not met the Dalai Lama. Today, the Dalai Lama has become no longer the political leader of the Tibetan people or even of Tibet's exile. He's a Tibetan religious leader. The political movement, the political action, has been taken up by Tibetan emigrants, the Tibetan refugees within the framework of a completely normal political logic. Therefore, the Dalai Lama actually has nothing to do with the Tibetan movement for freedom, the Tibetan protest movement, the Tibetan dissidentism. He is a religious leader, a living symbol of Tibetan religion and civilization. It has now come so far that, in the case of the Dalai Lamas, who represent the philosophy or belief of the rebirth, it has been questioned whether the next Dalai Lama will ever come again, because it cannot be reborn in Tibet, in its own country. And if he is born there, there will be no way to find him. I am unfortunately forced to stop, although I could talk at length about the peculiarities, values of Tibetan civilization, what Tibetan civilization has given to the Western world, including Estonia. Let's remember Linnart Mäll. But the clock behind me is demandingly forcing me to stop. I'm handing over the chair to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U289	Thanks a lot, Mart Helme! I ask the Foreign Minister Eva-Maria Liimetsa to answer the inquiry. I would like you to join the Riigikogu's Chair of Speech. But before you come to this chair to answer this question, I wish you happy birthday by the Riigikogu! Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U290	Thank you very much, Speaker of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, good evening! I am pleased to respond to today's question on Tibet. The first question is about the activities of the Republic of Estonia in respect of human rights in Tibet, the People's Republic of China. Ladies and gentlemen, from this Riigikogu speaking board, I once again confirm that Estonia's clear view of human rights is that human rights are universal and must be respected everywhere. Speaking of the issue of human rights in China, I have not only brought to light Hong Kong and Xinjiang but also Tibet and Internal Mongolia. Thus, the statement in the inquiry that Estonia has focused primarily on Hong Kong and Xinjiang in raising the human rights situation, but overlooking the rights of the rest of the national minorities in China, is not correct. The last time I answered a question about China before the honourable Riigikogu, there was a thought that we should not talk about joint statements with the European Union, NATO and other sympathetic partners. I assure you that authoritarian regimes who commit human rights violations would only be delighted if the countries sharing the same values would abandon the joint criticism of human rights. Therefore, Estonia will continue to raise the issue of human rights in China, including the human rights situation in Tibet, in cooperation with other countries of the same kind, as this is the case with all of us. There was also the idea at the time that we should not talk about what the European Union is doing. But the European Union, this is Estonia with our friends and partners, not an anonymous Brussels. As a Member State of the European Union, Estonia has been good, among other things, to ensure that the subject of Tibetan human rights is reflected in the European Union's human rights policy, the European Union's relations with China. In April 2019, at the meeting of the Human Rights Dialogue, the European Union raised a number of concerns about the situation in Tibet and called for the release of Tibetan activists, writers, religious figures, Tashi Wangchuki and Lobsang Dargye. In the UN Human Rights Council, the European Union has also called on China to respect the fundamental rights of Tibetans. Although China suspended the human rights dialogue with the European Union, we will continue to stand for the issue of Tibetan human rights to be reflected in bilateral relations between the European Union and China. The second question concerns whether the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Estonia has contacts with fighters and activists for Tibetan human and civil rights. The Permanent Representation of the Republic of Estonia to the UN and other international organisations has been in constant contact with representatives of the Tibetan Office on the subject of Tibetan human rights and the "Save Tibet" campaign, for example. Question 3: Is the External Action Service of the Republic of Estonia prepared to meet the Tibetan religious leader or other political leaders fighting for the rights of Tibet and Tibetans? Honourable heirs! The External Action Service of the Republic of Estonia is based on the protection of Estonian interests, including security interests, and the promotion of values. Estonian diplomats are therefore prepared to attend all meetings that contribute to the achievement of these objectives. And as I have already pointed out, such meetings are taking place. However, the budget of the Estonian External Action Service is limited and takes into account the potential of a country with a population of 1.3 million. So it may seem that we have more focus on the security of our region and on the issues of democracy in our immediate vicinity. But nevertheless, our real focus is much wider. At the same time, there will certainly continue to be topical meetings with opposition leaders in Belarus, for example. Today I was also pleased to meet Svyatlana Tsikhanovskaya, representative of the Belarusian opposition. The fourth question concerns my possible participation in the meeting with the Dalai Lama. Let me first point to the possible inaccuracy of the inquiry, as if only President Arnold Rüütel met with the Dalai Lama of the Tibetan religious leader of Estonian leaders. According to my information, President Ilves has met the Dalai Lama in 2011 as well as Mart Laar as Prime Minister and Minister of Defence. In the past, several members of the Estonian government have also met the Dalai Lama. As regards my meeting as Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Estonia, as a result of my office, I am prepared, if necessary, for all meetings based on the interests of Estonia and the objectives of foreign and security policy. The fifth question concerns the creation of possible additional working groups with the United Nations or also with the European Commission. In the United Nations, the main options to draw attention to human rights violations are either the production and submission of joint statements or the negotiation of resolutions. As I mentioned earlier, the European Union has raised the subject of Tibetan human rights in the UN Human Rights Council. There are no separate working groups on the human rights situation in different countries at the UN. In Estonia's view, the mechanisms of international organisations are appropriate for raising violations of human rights. Estonia supported the establishment of the UN Human Rights Council in order to address issues relating to human rights with particular attention, in addition to previous formats, as has been the case with the Third United Nations Committee. Estonia has joined all the major joint statements on the human rights situation in China in the United Nations. As far as the establishment of a permanent working group with the European Commission is concerned, the creation of such a committee with the European Commission is not, according to me, relevant. The sixth issue is the implementation of these initiatives. Honourable heirs! Estonia does not approach the violation of human rights selectively, whether it is a violation in China or elsewhere in the world. In addition to human rights violations in China, Estonia has addressed the human rights situation in Syria, Myanmar, Burundi, the Democratic Republic of Congo, North Korea, Mali and Belarus in its speeches and statements. We have also referred, in our speeches, to the violation of human rights in Russia, indeed. Through joint statements by countries, we have also talked about human rights violations in Venezuela, Nicaragua, Egypt, Saudi Arabia and the Philippines. Over the years, Estonia has been the vampire of many country-specific human rights resolutions, i.e. North Korea, Iran, Myanmar, Syria, Eritrea, Yemen, Venezuela, Burundi, Somalia, Democratic Republic of Congo, Sudan, Nicaragua, South Sudan, Mali, Libya and Belarus. In addition, Estonia will regularly speak at meetings of the regular review mechanism on the human rights situation in Geneva, where we have made recommendations to improve the human rights situation in very different countries. In the last two sessions, we have made recommendations to countries such as Lebanon, Nepal, Oman, Myanmar, Palau, Namibia, Niger, Solomon Islands and Somalia, for example. Estonia has joined joint statements on media freedom in Belarus and Myanmar, as well as on human rights, including the situation of LGBTI people in Chechnya, through the coalitions of the thematic countries. Estonia is working to protect human rights and promote democratic principles on the basis of a human rights diplomacy agenda approved by the Government of the Republic. The guidelines and tasks set out in the Action Plan are largely based on how Estonia has acted on these issues in the past. For example, on the subject of human rights violations in China, today's government continues its earlier Estonian policy. It is on solid foundations and wide-spread, indeed, as has been pointed out in the inquiry. This is based on the universal nature of the protection of human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U291	Minister, thank you. You have questions too. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U292	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, Minister, the wish of happiness from me too, because you must, from the bottom of your heart, stand here before the Riigikogu on this important day. But it's an obligation. There's nothing to do. As a gift, I only ask one question. As we know, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has financial resources to support different countries in their activities, even the opposition movements, for example, last year the money was allocated to Belarus. My question is this: how much has the Ministry of Foreign Affairs supported Tibet financially in their fight for freedom and movement? If the Ministry hasn't done it, why haven't you? Are you planning on doing this, and if you're not, then why?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U293	The foreign service of the Republic of Estonia has indeed received funds from the Estonian state budget to provide development aid to different countries and this money is allocated according to development aid projects. The priority countries for Estonia's development assistance are the Eastern Partnership countries, including Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova. We actively support the democratic aspirations of these countries to help protect security in our region. As far as wider development aid projects are concerned, it is a project-based activity to which we provide development aid. When we talk about humanitarian aid, it is decided according to where and how and what the humanitarian crisis is. On this basis, the government makes a decision and allocates money.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U294	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U295	Minister, thank you very much. I ask you very specifically: does Estonia support the right of the Tibetan people to separate from China by democratic declaration? Please, yes or no!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U296	Indeed, it is quite difficult to answer this question unambiguously. This question can be answered according to Tibet's interest and opportunities in the People's Republic of China. The Republic of Estonia has based its foreign policy on one of China's policies.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U297	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U298	Thank you. Congratulations on your birthday, but I can't let you go. We just found out the Tibetans don't know how to write projects. If you could write projects, you could get money from Estonia. But the reality is, of course, much more pros and we are very late in helping the Tibetans, because we can help not specifically the people living in Tibet's motherland, but those who have found refuge in Dharamsala and North India. But we haven't helped them. I understand that we are generally acting within a broader framework and this individual national approach is not particularly practiced. Is this policy to be changed? Once again, I stress that this unique civilization is about to be destroyed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U299	Thank you. Indeed, as I have tried to explain to you, Estonia has taken long steps to help ensure that human rights violations do not occur in Tibet. Estonia has joined the relevant joint statements and in this way made it clear that Estonia does not agree with this violation of human rights. Whether and what we can do more is always a question. Of course, I will listen to the proposals here and take them with me and, of course, we will wonder whether and what more can we do. But what Estonia has done so far, Estonia will certainly continue to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U300	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U301	Dear waitress, Indeed, you said that you were also discussing other measures. I would like to make one suggestion immediately: to invite the Tibetan foreign minister in exile to Estonia. He's been a friend to Estonia before, by the way. Once, when the Unrepresented People's Organisation was established, the Tibetan Minister for Foreign Affairs was actively involved in this matter. So we have contact with them. Do you have any further ideas of your own that we can do for Tibet? What is happening to the Tibetan people takes place in almost every area of discrimination, linguistic discrimination, ethnic pressure to leave their settlements, cultural attacks, environmental disasters, etc., there are so many areas. Do you have any other ideas what to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U302	Estonia, as I have described nicely here, has taken many steps for a long time. The main leverage is still to raise this issue at international level and draw China's attention to these bottlenecks. This is what Estonia has done. Estonia has done so in the United Nations Human Rights Council, the Third United Nations Committee. These are the places where we have highlighted this problem and have also made proposals on how to improve this situation in order to ensure that human rights are protected.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U303	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U304	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, first of all, congratulations! But now I'd like to go to my question. I still have a little bit of a mix-up. You yourself said here that you do not deal selectively with assistance, but you pointed out a moment ago that you are primarily supporting the Eastern Partnership countries. On this basis, it still gives the impression that support is selective. That is why I am asking you what you, as Estonian Foreign Minister, have done or done to find a solution to the situation in Tibet and to help Tibet.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U305	Thank you. The foreign policy of the Republic of Estonia is based on the foreign policy development plan of the Republic of Estonia, it is also a document approved here in the Riigikogu, and our activities are primarily due to the fact that our main objective is to ensure and ensure the security of the Republic of Estonia. [Firstly,] our activities are value-based; second, economic cooperation is an important area for us and third, of course, helping Estonian citizens and Estonians over the weather. These are the basic documents on which we plan our activities. When we are talking about providing development aid, of course, we have developed framework documents for this. Since ensuring Estonia's security is precisely this priority activity, the central activity of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, our development aid money is also aimed primarily at ensuring and contributing to security in our region, and one of its elements is precisely the strengthening of democratic processes in our immediate neighbourhood. That is why, at first sight, it may seem that we are dealing with these issues as if only. Indeed, these questions are our primary focus, because this is the most important task that has been assigned to our ministry. Speaking about the wider protection of human rights, I have said here several times where we have noticed and taken note of this difficult situation, which you have also pointed out here today, the violation of human rights in Tibet. We have also raised this issue in the international arena. The funds for development assistance are primarily for the promotion of democratic processes, and we are based on project-based activities. And how could it be to support the Tibetans? This question can be analysed, but what exactly is this answer going to be, I cannot tell you this from the information that is available here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U306	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U307	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! Happy birthday from me too! You said that you would also agree to meet the Dalai Lama yourself if it was in the interests of Estonia. Please define here the interests of Estonia, which would be a prerequisite and a basis for you to meet the Dalai Lama.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U308	Thank you for this question and for your comment. Indeed, I am ready for all meetings that are in the interest of the Republic of Estonia and are based on the foreign and security policy objectives of the Republic of Estonia. This means that these meetings should complement the foreign and security policy objectives of the Republic of Estonia, which means strengthening our independence, contributing to strengthening our international reputation in the world and ensuring our independence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U309	Urmas Reitelmann!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U310	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Minister for Foreign Affairs, in your introduction you used such a phrase, the order of words was just like "in Tibet, in the People's Republic of China." And here's the question: has Estonia's foreign policy finally accepted the occupation of Tibet by Communist China? You also said that Estonia is based on a common Chinese policy. Another speculation: if the People's Republic of China attacks Taiwan and joins it with China, will Estonia accept it in the framework of a common Chinese policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U311	Yes, indeed, Estonia is based on a common Chinese policy, has been doing so since regaining independence in 1991. As far as Taiwan is concerned, Estonia has recently expressed its dissatisfaction that it is not appropriate to disband civilian demonstrations with military aircraft or war threats. So Estonia also notices such issues. But yes, Estonia is based on one Chinese policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U312	Raivo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U313	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! You listed the various activities that Estonia has supported Tibet in the United Nations and [my feet]. What has been the reaction of China and the so-called'reaction to it' in such specific cases, specific actions?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U314	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, for this question. I have no specific information about China's countermeasures. However, China has generally taken note of this information or has also said that they do not agree with this criticism.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U315	Minister, thank you. No more questions for you. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. Please contact the representative of the negotiators of the Riigikogu Chair Mart Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U316	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. Colleagues! I thank the Minister for his honest answers. Because from honest answers, we learned that Estonia marks the relevant activity, well, let's say like one shipboy as one of the crews of a large ship. We don't really have any personal initiatives. We are not raising this issue. We will raise this question when it comes to a broader context in which we can get behind someone else. It's a shame, and it's hypocritical. Let me remind you, I think a lot of younger people here might not be able to remember it that way. I remember when I was in the late 1980s, even more in 1990 and 1991, when it was possible to have more contact with representatives of the outside world, not with Soviet people, how they shook their heads when we talked about how we wanted to become independent. Don't rock the boat, Gorbachev is a gift for you, don't spoil his odds, let the Soviet Union democratize, etc. I remember all this very well. And I remember this bitterness, this frustration, that those who could and should support us as citizens and representatives of democratic countries actually turn their backs on us with this kind of talk. We are doing exactly the same with Tibet now. We actually do the same thing with many others. We are marking, we are raising a question, we are worried somewhere, we are talking about some sanctions, but basically we are doing nothing. Basically, we're not doing anything! Because there are two ways: either we feel that our hands are so short that we can't change anything anyway, or we're afraid. We give priority to our relationship with those great ones who do what they want, because the strong do what they want, and the weak do what they have to do. And that's where we qualify to be weak. We do what we have to. If the Germans and the Americans say that now we are putting the full iron to criticize the human rights violations of the Uighurs, then Estonia will be in line and will put the full iron on it. But if the Americans say, "Keep a low profile on Tibet," we'll keep a low profile. And it's lame. It's lame! But that's right, it's real politics. We deny that we are dealing with real policy, and we say that we are not doing it, but we are actually doing it. As a historian, I can recall how Estonia's de jure was still an independent state. In 1939 and 1940, I do not remember the dates, but in the League of Nations, of which we were a full member and of which the Soviet Union was not a member, the [Soviet Union] forbade us to sit in the Chamber of Congress, forbade us from speaking. With a great death, a great war, he allowed the representatives of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania to sit and observe sittings on the balcony. We will also allow the Tibetans and many others to look at the balcony on how important issues are being discussed, which indirectly affect their fate, but their question will be specifically refused to be discussed. We should, however, very critically review all the current foreign policy practice. Yeah, here's the herd. It is much easier to conduct politics the way we are now doing what we have to do. To do what must be done, as the weak always do. It's a lot easier. And it's much harder to take initiative. But we can see how some countries... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U317	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U318	... which are also small states, for example, Iceland, is not a few hundred thousand people, half of Tallinn, often dares to take foreign political initiative. Well, who should take this Iceland so much into account that it is shaping world policy, but it takes this initiative, it pulls the Nordic countries along, it pulls other countries along, and it gets somewhere with this initiative. Can we not think in our foreign policy that we too will take the initiative that we are stubbornly going to take and draw other countries along, first our southern partners, but then perhaps our northern partners too, and achieve something? But we don't want to achieve anything. And I'm very critical of that. I've been an employee of the State Department, I know that way of thinking. This thinking has only gotten worse over time. The desire to make Estonia pay in the world has settled there with the desire to blend Estonia in such a way that no one can put us behind our nails, so that we have a thick cotton powder around us. But at one point, there's still a tiger or a bear whose nails are so powerful, he's gonna smash that vat buffer. It's not gonna save us. We would rather be saved by making ourselves known as a country that dares and does what it wants, not what it has to do. This is my message: let's not be selective, let's not follow! Returning to Tibet, the situation in Tibet is catastrophic. This is not comparable to the situation that has been raised to the shield in the case of East Turkestan, or Xinjiang. The situation in Tibet is catastrophic. China has made this one of its targets for the predatory economy. There are few minerals in China. There are isolated areas that are used as nuclear polygons. There are areas that are used to store all kinds of waste. Tibetans are completely excluded from many areas. They're forced to be hijacked, it's a disaster. And the world is silent. Estonia is also silent. Estonia does what it can, but not what it has to do. In this case, it must be done to be a champion for a nation with a great history but in a very difficult situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U319	Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu for a speech chair in Reuben Kaalepi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U320	Dear Riigikogu! I feel it is time to recall some of the basic values, the fundamentals on which the Estonian state is built. The same country that has been entrusted to us as Members of Parliament to watch over and care for. This country is founded on the undying right of self-determination of peoples. What is the essence of the idea of self-determination of nations? If we recall the historical context in which the Estonian state was created, we can say that this country was created by a nation, which had been part of other, major empires for centuries, suppressed by them, but who had never, deep down, lost his will for freedom, his desire to establish himself, to establish his own state and, through it, to fulfill the highest expression of the self-determination of one nation, to be himself. The self-determination of the people is directly derived from the deep spiritual association of the people with their land, the land in which the ancestors of the nation, spoken of in the soil of the mythology of this nation, are one of the most inherent levels of folklore in this land. And as a result, this bond with this land is the origin of the self-determination of the people, the desire to bring freedom to themselves as masters of this land. It is very popular to talk recently about the common value space between Estonia and the Western countries. This usually means quite fresh ideas in history, such as liberal democracy and human rights. However, it must be acknowledged that these ideas are secondary to the deeper basis of world-view, the foundation of national statehood on which the Estonian state is founded. If, as an Estonian state, as Estonians, we have some kind of world-view mission in this world, then it can be precisely to support national statehood, self-determination of nations, the desire for freedom of oppressed small peoples, to show the world that it has some profound value hidden in it. And it is because of this that, as Estonians, it is essential, much more essential for us than for the great nations, such as the Americans, the English, the Spanish, the Germans, etc., to feel solidarity, unity with the oppressed small nations such as Tibetans. In doing so, we must acknowledge that we must devote ourselves to the idea that the ultimate act of self-realisation of each nation is indeed to create our own country, to bring freedom and true independence to our people. We should never allow any economic interests to dictate and dictate to us that we must follow some of the great multinational empires and therefore abandon our deepest sacred values. Estonia's foreign policy must take the self-determination of the nations as its real heart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U321	I ask for the Riigikogu's speech chair, Mikhail Lotman.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U322	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank the Estonian Conservative People's Party for raising this very important issue. This is really a very important subject and very close to my heart. On the other hand, I wouldn't want to attack our minister right now, especially on a day like this. I'd rather take my word for it than take courage. Indeed, everything the Minister said is right. That is the case: we are in the stream of democratic states, we are among them and we do not differ. As Dickens said about Mr Pickwick, by characterizing his appearance, that if you put him in a fish tank, he wouldn't show up among the fishes. We are a democratic country, and there is nothing wrong with us being like this, but ambition wants something more. We want to see the initiative of the Estonian state in various areas, especially where it is the oppression of nations, the violation of the rights of peoples and people, even what we call a value-based policy. A value-based policy is risky; it is always reluctant to anyone. But that's what we have to do. The second thing I want to stress is what I call the street lamp effect. Where are we looking for the lost key? Usually not where we dropped him, but under the lantern, because it's lighter there. And that, unfortunately, is also the case in the area of human rights in this world. Indeed, all the new conflicts we are reacting to are very important, cryptic, and we must respond to them. But that doesn't mean we have to leave these old conflicts in the dark. Besides, when we talk about Tibet and compare it with Hong Kong, for example, which we are very concerned about and I personally am very concerned about, I remember that when I went from Guangzhou, which was supposed to be such a more progressive part of China, Hong Kong, I felt that even the air was freer. It was an even stronger feeling than what I felt when I went from West Germany to East Germany during the fall of the Berlin Wall. Another world, another universe, but [in Hong Kong] it was even more [known]. I realized the Chinese could be free people, and they deserve to be. But Tibet is something other than Hong Kong. In Hong Kong, we are dealing with gross violations of human rights and undermining democratic institutions. In Tibet, cultural destruction has been carried out very consistently, an entire culture is being destroyed. I would even say that there are certain signs of genocide. It's something completely different than Hong Kong. And just because this thing's been dragging around for a very long time and we're kind of used to it doesn't mean the Tibetans are used to it. This does not mean that our conscience should not cry out. It is indeed a very old, very rich culture. I am not saying that young people and not such rich cultures can be destroyed. Absolutely not! But Tibet is a completely separate phenomenon. I hope you, Minister, will take courage... You won't? Here you go. I very much encourage you to do this, and I want you to know that next time we talk about Tibet, we will talk about concrete steps in Estonia to help the Tibetans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U323	I will explain, Mr Lotman, that I asked the Minister at the moment you referred to him whether he wanted to speak, and then he shook his head in response to me, not to you. So this could have been the wrong idea. [[Mikhail Lotman responds locally.]] Yeah, I just wanted to make sure I didn't get the wrong idea around here. Okay, no more calls. Negotiations need to be closed due to our domestic and operational procedures. The negotiations are closed and the inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-31_U324	And now, good members of the Riigikogu, you are very welcome to take part in today's fourth item, which is a free microphone. Everyone is very welcome and everyone will have the opportunity to sign up for a speech in a free microphone after a hammer hit. Please! There is no wish to speak in a free microphone. But before I close today's sitting, on behalf of the Riigikogu, I would like to thank our fellow official Jüri Luige for her work here in the Riigikogu. I understand there will be new challenges tomorrow. So thank you for this work to Jüri Luige and for the success of the new challenges. Good fellows, today's session is closed. Have a safe journey home!
