ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-20_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! President of the Republic! President Rüütel! Prime Minister! Ministers! Excellencys! 20. Members of the August Club! Good guests! August 20th, 1991. Late night at 11:03. The Supreme Council of the Republic of Estonia takes a decision on Estonia's national independence. Today we are celebrating the 30th anniversary of the restoration of Estonian independence. I will open a formal sitting of the Riigikogu on this occasion. I ask everyone to rise to sing the Estonian anthem.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-20_U3	Now it is my great honour to ask the Chair of the Riigikogu to be President of the Riigikogu, Mr Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-20_U4	Honourable President of the Republic of Estonia! Dear President Rüütel! Very honorable 20. Members of the August Club! Happy Riigikogu and members of the government! Honourable Presidents of the Latvian, Lithuanian, Icelandic, Polish and European Parliaments, Your Excellencys! Dear people and friends of Estonia! Allow me for today's event, 20. The opening speech of the inaugural session of the August Club and XIV Riigikogu will be introduced with one observation by the reborn first president of Estonia, Lennart Meri. In the book "Estonia's Identity and Independence," he writes: "The purpose of all Estonian history has been to exercise the right to self-determination, restore independence and establish a sovereign state. " That is how it has been. The creation of an independent state was dealt with in the aftermath of World War I on 24 February 1918 which brought to the map of the world a number of other almost nameless nations alongside Estonians, turning them into subjects of international law. Ten years before that, however, no one dared speak publicly about the Estonians' own country. Which doesn't mean it hasn't been dreamed of for a long time. One trace of this was subsequently found in a letter sent to Antti Almberg, the editor-in-chief of the Finnish newspaper Uusi Suometar, by Lydia Koidula in 1870. In the letter Koidula affirms that although Finns have more chances of independence for the Finnish people than Estonians, Estonians do not hang up hope, work to ensure that the people's bloom comes back and believe [that it happens]. More clearly, however, in Juhan Liv's poem 'Can you show me? ', published in the country already created, many years after the writing. Speaking of the fate of the Jewish people, the poet admits: And so it is in Estonia. And so is the swing of life: Once, as a whole idea, Once, Estonia is a state. Why did I start by remembering what Meri said? But because the meaning of what happened in history only becomes clear afterwards. Just as it was not possible to seriously anticipate the birth of the Estonian state in 1908, it was not possible to anticipate the destruction of the state from birth twenty-two years later, the occupation for fifty years and, well, the restoration of statehood in the same century as the birth of the state. But it was precisely with the mandate of the restoration of Estonia from the people that came to Toompea in 1990 that those state women and statesmen who, one and a half years later, adopted the historic decision of 'Estonia's national independence' on 20 August 1991. This decision is historic because it not only won back to its own country but also won back its own history, which, as the Meri has said, had been one long way to establish the Estonians' own existence. This may sound like a paradox, but with the same decision, their future was passed on to future generations. So were you, 20. People's ambassadors who joined the August Club, both restorers and open the gates of the future for our decision-makers today. There is nothing wrong with this honour that belongs to you and our thanks for placing the first stone of the wall to ensure the continuation of Estonia's time. When I stress the moment of the future in an event interpreted as historic, I mean that the role of the then Supreme Council was not limited to one decision that changed Estonia's fate. The year before that and the following period until the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia in a referendum, until the President of the Republic and the elections of the first Riigikogu after the war, the foundation of the restored state was laid. This state wall must continue to be built by all the next Riigikogu formations and generations of politicians, in order to ease at times the unfair ways of history and to level out unintended injustices if necessary. All the people of Estonia must be able to trust their country and feel that Estonia is also standing up for them. Yes, good listeners, for those generations to whom the historic moments mentioned remain in childhood, or who have even been born and born in the independent Republic of Estonia, for those who today have decisions and actions affecting our common future, is the question 'Is this the kind of Estonia we wanted? ' already answered in advance. Yeah, we did. We continue to want an independent Estonian state to be part of our national DNA, to act as a guarantee for Estonian language and culture, as it is written in the preamble to the Constitution. We want the Estonian state to be a cozy and beloved home not only to the people who lived in this corner of the country for centuries, but also to all those who have linked their lives and destiny to Estonia, to whom Estonia is equally a matter of heart. Very honorable people in the hall! Your contribution to restoring our independence has been invaluable. On August 20, 1991, the beloved Estonian, Heinz Valk, summed up this courage and gain, saying: "... We have no right to go down from this Toompea tonight if we act like cowards and fail to do the word given to the people. The Estonian people are watching us, the whole free world is watching us. So let's look them in the eye, too. I welcome the reborn Republic of Estonia! ' We need similar thinking and self-confidence in building our country today in order to stay on the right path in a rapidly changing and worryingly unstable world. Every person in Estonia must feel safe and safe in this country. We must work together to make every place in Estonia a good place to live. This is the only way we can look the Estonian people in the eye now, 30 years later. This is the joint role and responsibility of all of us and future generations, because independence obliges us! National independence as a wallstone for Estonia's survival. A worthy day of restoration of independence for all of us! Power to Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-20_U5	The President of the Republic of Estonia has the floor on Kersti Kaljulaid. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu of the President of the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-20_U6	Dear 20. Members of the August Club, President Arnold Rüütel, a good chairman and others have previously served this profession! Dear representatives of the people! Good friends! This decision, taken in this Chamber 30 years ago, we had been waiting for a very long time. Too many people couldn't wait for that day. Too many had suffered for the arrival of that day and had left their lives in the cucumbers, in prison camps, in exile, far from their homeland. This deep-hearted expectation was summed up by Hando Runnel: A very old nation with a earthy wisdom in its mouth, We were greeted from time to time and said, "We're new," and said, we'll be alive, we'll be ahead of ourselves. And when we heard that luck, we had eyes in the water. This day was expected through the years of occupation and in the hope of its arrival, all those popular movements and activities that fit into the beautiful word set'singing revolution' with all their powerful pre- and post-relations. This day arrived when the Transitional People's Representation, the Supreme Council took a decision on "Estonia's National Independence." And when we heard that luck, we had eyes in the water. This decision was born as a cooperation between the representatives of the Supreme Council of the Republic of Estonia and the representatives of the Congress of Estonia. This decision supported the wish of the majority of the voters of both chambers of parliament to restore the Republic of Estonia. Moreover, the restoration of the independent and independent Republic of Estonia had been confirmed at the Independence referendum in March 1991 by 77% of the voters. Of course, opinions differed as to how Estonia could reach such a fundamental goal, and there were heated disputes about these various routes leading to independence. But we have to take into account that, in those days, no one knew exactly how we would finally be free from this half a hundred years of nightmare. And that is why these passionate political disputes were necessary for us to get our options, our choices to be clarified among ourselves. But the most important thing was that these choices were united by one and a common goal Dear friends! The decision of the Supreme Council and the representatives of the Congress of Estonia not only restored Estonia's independence, but also set a very important goal ahead. The Constitutional Assembly was created with the task of developing the text of the new Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and giving it to the people for final evaluation. It was very, very important that all political forces were represented in the Constitutional Assembly, and so the principles of the future organisation of state life were calmly, dignifiedly but passionately negotiated by everyone. On that August night, Toompea realized with state-manly wisdom that free and democratic Estonia is based only on a social agreement that recognises that we have different opinions and tries to find a common part between them. And that's it. Since that first lesson, Parliament is the most appropriate place where different opinions come together to debate and negotiate them. This is where representatives of the people find the most sensible common part of the discussions. In the name of compromise, personal opt-outs must be able to endure, just as they did 30 years ago, because it can be the price of a dignified agreement by making decisions for the benefit of the Estonian people and of the Estonian state. Freedom and democracy will persist, as even the most difficult decisions will be discussed in this Chamber with respect for each other. Not by consensus, but by unanimous respect for one another, for every word spoken here has been said with respect for all our people. This decision of the Supreme Council, confirmed by the hammer strike of Ülo Nugis late in the evening of August 20th, has well called Liia Hänn salomonic, and she is very right about that. I very much hope that we, your descendants, will have the same happiness in arguing, and that the future will also remember the decisions of these disputes as self-evident as we remember today the decisions of your disputes. Thank you, 20. August Club! I wish you all a beautiful day of restoration of independence. You are and will be our role model. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-20_U7	Thank you very much, Madam President. I now ask you to speak to the Riigikogu Chair 20. August Club President Ants Waterrise. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-20_U8	Dear fellow countrymen! To begin with, I would especially like to thank all those people who 30 years ago were ready to go to the end of the fight for the real restoration of the independence of the Republic of Estonia! Only together with the Estonian people and with their firm support did we win the fight for Estonia's independence! Mr President of the Republic of Estonia! Dear Speaker, the spies of the Nordic Parliaments, the President of the European Parliament, the Prime Minister, ministers, members of the Riigikogu, guests from Lithuania, Latvia and elsewhere! Ladies and gentlemen, Your Excellencys! It has been 30 years since the memorable day when the Supreme Council of the Republic of Estonia took a decision on the complete restoration of the independence of the Republic of Estonia. It had become a reality for which almost all the people of Estonia had been acting in the last few years. 30 years ago, both the hall and Toompea halls and rooms felt expectation and anxiety. No one knew how the day would end outside the walls of Toompea Castle, but it was already known with certainty that today and only today the Supreme Council would come, because none of the other institutions had these powers to restore the independence of the Republic of Estonia. We had received a mandate from the people to do so. And when the hammer strike of Ülo Nugis, which confirmed that the decision to restore the independence of the Republic of Estonia had been taken by the Supreme Council of Estonia, it was a great pleasure for the people who had gathered in the square in front of Toompea Castle. It was a joy to the people across the country because everyone had been waiting for it. Such a sense of belonging between ambassadors and the people can only occur at these rare moments in the history of the country when the crucial decisions that the people have just expected and wanted are taken. Throughout its existence, the Supreme Council made a firm move on one course to restore the real independence of the Republic of Estonia. History has proven that the Supreme Council worked well throughout its activities and created a solid legal platform for the Republic of Estonia to act independently. In this regard, I would like to mention specifically the many employees of the Supreme Council, who were the largest specialists in their area, and thanks to whom the laws were mostly correct and there was virtually no legal breach. This was a real example of how the political will of the ambassadors would be implemented in a way that the correct laws would be born, and how to organise cooperation between ambassadors and staff. Our successful monetary reform and re-introduction of the Estonian kroon were certainly one of the greatest successes in securing Estonia's independence. The monetary reform and its preparation progressed in conditions where Estonia was still moving towards independence, but there was no real independence. If during the preparation period of the monetary reform the Soviet Union did not recognise Estonia's right to its currency, many Western countries simply did not believe in it and urged us to abandon the monetary reform. But we did it, and not bad. As usual, we listened to all the pros and cons, but we made a decision of our own, which, in our knowledge, seemed to be the best and also feasible for Estonia. The agreement of the bases of 1939 was proof of the Soviet Union's goals and the Soviet troops who marched into Estonia on 17 June 1940 took away the last arguments about the subsequent change of regime and the legitimity staged in the Soviet Union. The composition of the Supreme Council of XII confirmed by its decision that the occupation of the Republic of Estonia by the Soviet Union has not interrupted the existence of the Republic of Estonia de jure and the Estonian SSR was the territory of the Republic of Estonia occupied by the Soviet Union. However, it was also recalled in Russia this year that on 6 August 1940 the Estonian leaders asked for Estonia to be admitted to the Soviet Union, on which the leaders of the Soviet Union, led by Stalin, responded positively to us and accepted Estonia into the Soviet Union. Russia's 30-year-old democracies have already disappeared for more than a few decades, and every year they are moving in the direction of restoring the Soviet Union to its former dimensions. The front line is approaching us at a remarkable speed, having reached Lithuania and Latvia. In the previous jubilees, we talked about the war coming closer to us, whether it be in Georgia or in Ukraine. Now there is a war already in Lithuania and Latvia. What is happening in Lithuania and Latvia is far from related to the problem of refugees. This is the testing and use of a new military force against our neighbours. Today, we must show solidarity with our neighbours, not only in words but also in deeds. If we do not now demonstrate the unity and cooperation of the three Baltic states, then there may be very tragic consequences. Being a member of NATO and a member of the UN Security Council, now is our great opportunity and duty to help our neighbours by forcing our great-powerful friends to respond adequately and act in practice. And now we come to another point of pain, the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact, which basically divided Europe into secret protocols before the start of World War II. The Estonian ambassadors of the Congress of People's Envoys of the Soviet Union made a huge effort to raise this pact issue, and on 24 December 1989 the Congress of Soviet People's Ambassadors declared the secret protocols of the Pact null and void from the moment of signature. This was only possible because Estonian ambassadors showed the history of the master class against counterfeiters. It is now once again a situation in which Russia's dive wants to put this issue back into the debate in order to repeal the historic decision of 24 December 1989. We may ignore this, but seeing what is happening in the world and in Europe would be a criminal behaviour towards the Estonian state. We must constantly remind the Western countries and their leaders that the secret protocols of the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact were the ones that led the three Baltic States to the Soviet Union, not the free will of our peoples. And if we don't remember it in the European Union and the UN, history can happen again. But on this day, it is fitting to recall the thought of Supreme Council Commander Ülo Nugis that the feeling of being the master of fate must not be forgotten. When selecting its representatives in Parliament, each voter should first and foremost ask himself whether it is actually possible for him to influence the decisions he makes on Toompea. Or maybe he's just reduced to a manipulative mass in pushing through agreements made in the back rooms of politicians. Politics begins where ideas and ways of implementing them compete with each other, not the power ambitions of individual people and the desire to please party leaders. Politics is the art of compromises to achieve goals in a way that is dignified, that losers have room for retreat, and that the winners have the generosity to listen to dissidents. It is the rapidly changing circumstances that force us to be ready to respond to any new challenge. Without new challenges, we will degenerate into some mediocre small country that the rest of us can use to our advantage. We must not forget our interests. Ask yourself each morning the question: What can I do for myself and for my country? And every day, do something for yourself, your loved ones, your colleagues, your friends and Estonia. And if you have done so, the day has come true and Estonia's life has progressed. Today we can say with full confidence: we have won and we have fulfilled our dreams. Let us, then, keep this victory together. Let us keep the Republic of Estonia! Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-20_U9	Thank you very much, 20. President of the August Club! I now ask Marcus Ehasoo, student of the Riigikogu speech chair! Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-20_U10	Dear President of the Republic, President of the Riigikogu, members of the Riigikogu, 20. Members and guests of the August Club! Today we celebrate the 30th anniversary of a day that restored the hope and sense of perspective of our people. Thanks to the events that took place in August 1991 and before that, all those born after 1991 have been able to grow up in free Estonia. I can't imagine the spirit that wore them and the force that moved in the minds of those people who fought for free Estonia, but I can tell you how I look at these people: with sincere gratitude and pride that there were so many statesmen among our small people back then. Thanks to their efforts, I have been able to attend a kindergarten where people were taught to consider others, and a school where many languages were taught developed rational thinking and was able to participate in the school board. My countrymen and I have been able to sing national songs under the song line and to erect a memorial to those who fought for Estonia in the War of Independence in Roosna, Central Estonia. It's just a positive story for one person. Hundreds of thousands of people have been born in renegade Estonia, all of whom have to tell their free story about Estonia, for which to be grateful. I would describe the events that took place three decades ago. In the name of a common and great goal, the restoration of statehood was ready to face all obstacles, as the ultimate goal was so noble and so true. With a sense of unity, the leaders of the people dared to decide and defend those decisions. Such a small nation needs a sense of unity. It is not possible for us to face the challenges by mass, which is why we need to be large in soul, so that action can also be seen out loud. That is why unity is needed, so that the feeling of powerlessness is replaced by a strong feeling, and that the developments chosen for the country are realised as close to ideally as possible. I miss this feeling of unity when I think about Estonia today. I am concerned that we are often not ready to listen to each other to the end, but that there are still those who are willing to give up the principle of statesmanship for their own good. There are people among us who have been ignored, who have been hurt and whose role in society has been reduced compared to others. In my opinion, this is not the right way to develop as a nation, because a lack of a sense of unity will inevitably result in greater polarisation and conflicts. The existence of a sense of unity of the people does not mean the identification of political views or a common understanding of the functioning of society. A sense of unity guarantees a situation where differences can be introduced to each other and resolved according to a democratic state. One way to increase the sense of unity is to develop intergenerational dialogue. Everyone has heard such statements as young people are doomed or it is time for the older generation to hand over leadership to young people. However, these statements automatically contain conflict. The presentation of such messages does not allow us to find a common language, which is why there may be a distorted view that the young state and its welfare are not interested and the older generation is stubborn and does not want to pass on the driving of the state to the next generations. However, it is difficult to coexist because no generation lives forever, so it is important that we talk and listen to each other. It is only in this way that it is possible to ensure the sustainable development of the country and to avoid repeating the mistakes made in history. It is important that we build a sense of unity, talk among ourselves, and listen to one another. It is easy to start an intergenerational dialogue: young people, ask and explore your grandparents about what you have no experience of, and grandparents, tell your grandchildren about what history books cannot describe. Finally, the question of how and where to go next. For me, the answer is simple: forward with the same passion as 30 years ago, confidently and with a sense of unity towards an even better country. That's how we're gonna last. If we hold Estonia, Estonia will keep us. Happy anniversary of regaining independence! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-20_U12	The performance of the Academic Male Choir at Tallinn University of Technology was the 'Estonian Flag' (Enn Võrk, Martin Lipp). It is a great honour for me to give the word welcome to Latvia 4. May Declaration to the President of the Club Velta Čebotarenoka. Please! Please! The floor is yours.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-20_U13	Hello, Estonian freedom fighters! Mr President, Speaker, Members of the Riigikogu, Prime Minister, 20. Members and friends of the August Club and spies from Lithuania, Latvia, Iceland and the European Parliament! On August 20 this year, 30 years will pass since the de facto restoration of the Republic of Estonia. The announcement we received of your courageous vote also encouraged our Parliament to act. Our countries were under occupying power, and there were a large number of Soviet troops here. Despite these circumstances, the ambassadors elected in Estonia and Latvia from the popular movements did not get confused, broke before supremacy, and voted for the independence of their countries. The fate of all three Baltic states was similar, and we are the same in our soul, courage and spirit of battle. It is a good thing that we get along well, respect the good qualities of our neighbors, and warmly rejoice in each other's accomplishments. This is particularly evident in the friendship and cooperation of the clubs that voted for our independence. There has never been a time when we would not have tried to resolve the issues that are important to all three countries at our gatherings seriously, even by arguing. This was the case when President Barack Obama of the United States visited Tallinn at the end of his term of office. We wrote a letter explaining the unstable defence situation in the three Baltic states and asking to increase the number of US troops in the Baltics. To our delight, Barack Obama quoted this letter in his performance and followed his actions. Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania have always been admirable for their geographical location as well as for their industriousness, wisdom and achievements. In Latvia, we are thinking, above all, of two dates, 4 May 1990 and 21 August 1991. On the first day we declared our independence, the second time we put it to life by voting. These were two sunny days, and on May 4, the warmth of freedom even felt physically. On August 21, however, it seemed that the summer had taken over the snow queen, whose cold and breeze even felt the breath in the Chamber. Unlike the January barricade, no one protected us that day. We ourselves asked the guard to leave the House of Lords because the situation was frightening and no one could be certain that the OMONs, who were active in January, would arrive, or the Soviet army's spetsnaz soldiers, who probably killed our people during the barricades. During the discussion of the Statehood Act of the Republic of Latvia, the cutting and terrifying sounds were heard from Toomväljak because the armored cars were moving towards the building of the Supreme Council to free the way for the soldiers of the Soviet occupation forces. Then my colleague, the present Latvian ambassador, answered in Lithuania in Indulis Bērziņš's cry "Voting"! ..and we voted. At that point, it took courage, courage, ability and strength not to betray its constituents and to remain faithful to its country and its people. We did it. However, there were no embraces, tears, and smiles in the House of the Supreme Council, as was the case on May 4. A moment later, silence arrived. The military had apparently received orders to leave Riga's old town. We had announced an independent state and the invasion of the foreign state's parliament would have had a different international response. At that time, the Baltic countries were the focus of the world. On 21 August 1991, at the time of the coup d'état of the Soviet Union, the Supreme Council of the Republic of Latvia adopted the Constitutional Act on the termination of the transitional period for the restoration of independence laid down on 4 May 1990. It was the triumphal day of our people's non-violent parliamentary freedom struggle. It has an invaluable historical meaning for Latvia as well as for the whole world. This year, thirty years have passed since the de facto restoration of the Latvian and Estonian countries. I warmly welcome everyone on the occasion of Estonia's Day of Independence, because today and in the future we will be united by one thought, let Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia always be free! I thank the Estonian state for its high award, for the Order of the Second Class Cross of Maryland! Long live Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-20_U14	Thank you very much. Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu to welcome us to the Lithuanian Signatories Club President Birutė Valionytė. Please! Honourable Birutė Valionytė, the floor is yours!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-20_U15	Your Excellencys, the President of the Republic of Estonia, the President of the Riigikogu and members of the Riigikogu, Prime Minister and Ministers, diplomats, members of the Supreme Council of Estonia! Honourable participants in the memorial event! Ladies and gentlemen! I am particularly pleased to congratulate the proud Estonian people on this day of independence. I say these congratulations on behalf of the club of the signatories of the Lithuanian Act of Independence, on behalf of the people who restored the country of Lithuania on 11 March 1990, gave it back the name of the Republic of Lithuania and informed the whole world and the Kremlin about the act of restoring the independent state of Lithuania. The old coat of arms was restored, Vytis, which resembles the days of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, adopted a temporary constitution, elected the leadership of the Republic of Lithuania, and founded the second Republic of Lithuania. The occupation army left Lithuania on 31 August 1993. What Lithuania did 31 years ago seems like a miracle today. But we achieved this miracle because the three Baltic sisters cooperated. Our joint action bore fruit. Lithuania looked at Estonia with envy when the Popular Front of Estonia was established on 13 April 1988. In 1989 the organisation of the Baltic Way action was specifically agreed here in the Baltic Assembly in Tallinn. Together, Estonians, Latvians and Lithuanians were able to turn their faces to the West, become a living human chain from Vilnius to Tallinn, and all at once turn their backs on Moscow. The participants in the Baltic Way felt responsible for the fate of their country and their people. In doing so, they demonstrated to themselves and to the world their determination and determination to create independent lives for their peoples. This peaceful action was seen worldwide, although it has been called universal hysteria in Moscow. Every player in the Baltic Way felt that there was power in unity. Apparently the most important achievement reached together by the Estonian Popular Front and the Latvian Tautas Fronte was the lifting of the secret protocols of the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact in December 1989 at the Congress of Soviet People's Envoys. This meant that the Soviet Union acknowledged the occupation of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, which had been consistently denied in the past. This encouraged the independence forces to act even more actively and coordinate activities in the Baltic States. On 16 November 1988, the Supreme Soviet of the Estonian SSR decided to adopt a declaration on the sovereignty of the Estonian SSR, a resolution on the Union Treaty and a law amending the Constitution of the Estonian SSR. This was the first legal step in the entire Soviet Union to make it clear that the Estonian people are the masters of their own country. It was agreed that Lithuania would take similar decisions in support of the Supreme Soviet of the Estonian SSR, but the Lithuanian Communist Party did not support the Sąjūdis proposals. In Lithuania, this led to great dissatisfaction. Estonia was then alone and Arnold Rüütel, Chairman of the Supreme Soviet of the Estonian SSR, was invited to explain to the Kremlin. The Lithuanian SSR authorities did not support Estonia, but the Lithuanian people were with you. We were proud of you, envious of new thinking and determination. Your example brought the Lithuanians closer together. From 16 November 1988 until the restoration of independence on 20 August 1991 Estonia went through a difficult road which required a large concentration of the Estonian people. After the failure of the August punch in the Soviet Union on 20 August 1991, the Supreme Council of the Republic of Estonia announced immediately that it would confirm the independence of the Republic of Estonia and applied for the restoration of diplomatic relations with the Republic of Estonia. The same decision was taken by Latvia on 21 August 1991. On 22 August the Republic of Lithuania restored diplomatic relations with Estonia and Latvia. On 17 September 1991 Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania were admitted to the United Nations. At the moment, it just seems incredible how much we have achieved in a short time. How the three small, but never lost hope of freedom Baltic states played a key role in destroying the Soviet Empire and thereby changing the map of the world. Today our countries are part of the European Union and the strongest defence alliance, NATO. It's the path we've been through together, feeling the shoulder and support of a neighbor. Lithuania is still trying to catch up with its statistical indicators, but we hope that someday we will get ahead of you. This is a brotherly race, which is a very good incentive for progress. Estonia has changed dramatically over the last 30 years. Estonia now lives its own life. It is very important that Estonians believe in the future of their country and feel like the real owners of Estonia. Allow me to 20. To hand over a symbolic drop to the August Club, which is still being thrown ashore by our Baltic Sea, which unites us and instills trust and responsibility in our country. This is now more topical than ever. Happy holidays, dear friends! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-20_U16	Thank you very much. Now it is a great honour for me to welcome the speech chair of the Riigikogu to David Sassol, President of the European Parliament. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-20_U17	Madam President of the Republic of Estonia! Mr. Chairman of the Riigikogu! Representatives of the Nordic countries! Cute Estonians! I am very pleased to be here today and to celebrate with you the anniversary of the restoration of your country's independence in the Riigikogu. Thirty years ago, you showed no fear, just a desire for freedom and democracy. I know that your journey to freedom began much earlier, a hundred years before that, and continued as a long leap of small steps by special people and democracy. Your dream of freedom persisted in all these extremely difficult years of occupation, deportation, repressive regime and lack of freedom. The deportations, the confiscation of property, the deaths and the lives of those who were able to return alive left a deep wound to the soul of the region and the whole of the European Union. Your movement from darkness to light, as the Estonian poet Gustav Suits formulated it, became an expression of the will for freedom, which inspires subsequent young generations. Now the nations, many women and men, who are building up their democratic countries are looking to you. They're looking at your experience. This shows that building a democratic state requires a great deal of effort and consensus and takes a long time. Democratic transformation takes years, as does the introduction of new institutions and procedures, and changes in rules, habits and thinking. You have accomplished something outstanding, having carried out tough reforms that have certainly affected everyone, your whole society, your whole community, but you have been very successful, as you have now taken the lead in many areas. All of this has undoubtedly been made possible by the great democratic transformation of your country, which prevailed between the democratic thinking of Estonia and the democratic thinking of European countries. Many of you still remember the difference between freedom and freedomlessness. Let us protect this memory! This is our responsibility to the younger generations, to our children. Let us carry on the memories of the dramatic experiences of our families, our parents, our grandparents. Let us be their communicators and preservers, because young people honor them and ensure their continuity so that democracy does not see a self-evident system that has lost its value. As you know from your own experience, it is very difficult to build democracy, but it is very easy to lose freedom if we do not take care of it, it will not be protected. Today, new threats threaten our countries. We must express ourselves very clearly. Let us be clear that all attacks and threats against your security mean threats against Europe and the European Union, and that all means threats against European democracy. Security in the border regions of Estonia and several other countries, such as Latvia and Lithuania, which I have had the honour of visiting in recent days, concerns the security of the whole of Europe and must be prioritised. The same applies to digital intervention, to everything that aims to change our way of life, to what forms the basis of our democratic regimes. Ensuring the security of European citizens is a duty that we cannot withdraw from. The essence of democracy is based on trust: trust in institutions, the free press, politics, the state, our legal order and all its defenders. This trust must be carefully renewed every day and maintained as the best investment in our future. I am concerned about democracy and urge everyone to modernise it, to strengthen it. The COVID crisis highlighted the opposition that no one will be exposed to between us and the authoritarian regimes, because they want to show that they are more effective than we are. They're scared. They fear a Europe of freedoms that can infect their people and influence public opinion. We are here today to respond to this challenge. We have no fear. Celebrating democracy that has been returned to Estonia, recalling the sacrifices made by many of the victims of your country's freedom and confirming the commitment of our institutions to act as preservers of our values, thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-20_U19	Thank you to the singers of the Academic Male Choir of Technical University and conductor Valter Soosalu! Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]] Thank you very much for 20. Members of the August Club! I warmly thank the President of the Republic, President Rüütel, Prime Minister, good members of the Riigikogu. On behalf of our entire people, I would like to thank the President of the European Parliament and all our friends who were here today from Iceland, Poland, Lithuania and Latvia. Thank you so much for celebrating this important day here with us today. Thank you to all former Presidents of the Riigikogu. That concludes the formal sitting.
