ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U1	Good afternoon, good fellows. Dear Riigikogu, we will begin the Monday session of the 13th working week of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, please register with those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or enquiries. Raimond Kaljulaid, I beg you to speak to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U2	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, I expected the President of the Riigikogu to use the log he showed on the weekend instead of the hammer, but I can see that there is an old classic hammer on his desk. I would like to report an inquiry to Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. In fact, when Kaja Kallas took office in the government, he said that he considered the transition to education in Estonian as the most important priority for his government. Two weeks ago, the Minister of Education Liina Kersna told the Riigikogu that preparations for the transition to education in Estonian were under way. The Ministry will draw up an action plan with specific dates and, at the latest, the transition will take place in 2035. At the same time, several leading Central Party politicians, both our ladies and gentlemen and, for example, the Tallinn City Government's assistant mayor in the field of education, have repeatedly confirmed that nothing like this has been agreed in the government and this transition will not come. One member of the Centre Party has even publicly stated that if a working group is drawing up an action plan somewhere in the Ministry, absolutely does not mean anything and it does not have to be paid attention. This is a matter that directly affects the education of thousands of Estonian children, it concerns thousands of Estonian families, it concerns a large number of Estonian teachers and employees of Estonian schools, and it generally affects the Russian-speaking community, which is a fully-fledged part of Estonian society, as are all people of other nationalities living in Estonia. When one half of the government speaks one thing and the other half speaks another, the Prime Minister must explain who is speaking the truth and who is not. The government cannot have two foreign policies, for example, and the government cannot have two education policies. The inquiry has been digitally handed over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U3	I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubitsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U4	On behalf of the Isamaa Group, I will also issue an inquiry. This is for the Minister of Education and Research and the subject is a huge cut in the support for interest education. Before the previous Riigikogu elections, the Reform Party promised to organise a better education of interest. In the reform party's election programme, we could read such a sentence, for example: an interest education is an opportunity to broaden the world view and knowledge of children and young people, develop their skills and creativity, and keep them away from activities that harm their health and their future. Today, the Reform Party-led government has prepared the RES for the following years and announced that next year Estonia's interest education allowance will be reduced. This is not a slight cut, but a halving of the support for recreational education. It's not a small thing. And here we have a whole bunch of questions. One question is particularly important. This concerns directly what the current Minister of Education and Science, Liina Kersna, has told us. He spoke of how important he felt about children's spiritual health. And the question is that recreational education plays an important role in the development of children, and it is undoubtedly one of the areas that helps to prevent the risks associated with mental health problems. We ask what steps he plans to take as a minister in order to reduce and prevent mental health problems for young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U5	Please ask the representative of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U6	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching three draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law amending the Water Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of the Environment in the proceedings of the draft law. Secondly, the draft law amending the Law on the organisation of the energy economy and related amendments to other laws. The Government of the Republic shall be represented by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure when processing this draft in the Riigikogu. And thirdly, the draft law amending the collective agreement law and other laws. The Government of the Republic shall be represented by the Minister of Health and Labour when processing this draft in the Riigikogu. All three draft laws have been transmitted electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U7	Thank you. There's no more calls. On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted three drafts and two inquiries, and the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Good fellows, we're conducting a presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U8	89 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 12. Let us now go to the specification of the agenda and, after that, to the validation. First of all, the Committee on Monetary Affairs has proposed to remove the third item on the agenda of the Wednesday session of this working week, which is the second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the financing of the European Union's re-launch plan and the Council of the European Union's decision on the system of own resources, submitted by the Government of the Republic. Secondly, the Committee on Economic Affairs has proposed to remove the eighth item on the agenda of the Wednesday session of this working week, namely the second reading of the draft law amending the competition law initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws 325. Three... It's a hard, procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U9	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! It is a question of the agenda that we are about to adopt. In fact, the Social Democrats are seriously concerned about the health situation that prevails in Estonia. The Prime Minister has said in front of us several times that, good members of the Riigikogu, if you want to know anything, ask questions. He'll be right back to answer them. Already a week and a half ago, the Social Democrats asked a couple of questions about the health situation and asked the Prime Minister to come and answer us on 3 May. It's May 3rd. I will see that there is no reply from the Prime Minister on the agenda today. Can you tell me why the Prime Minister is not here today, and has the Bureau been communicating with the Prime Minister and suggesting that questions about health should be answered very quickly?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U10	Thank you. Due to our order, there are 20 days to respond to requests for information. By my count, it's not full of 20 days. But yes, you have to come within that time. Communication between the Riigikogu and the State Chancellery takes place and is found on the first possible day. That's how I can answer. Rock Hard, second procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U11	Thank you. I hope you've already made contact with the Prime Minister by making this week's agenda. The Social Democrats cannot be pleased with this agenda, and I would like to ask you to speak with the Prime Minister once, twice or, if necessary, three before drawing up next week's agenda, so that he will be on the board next Monday.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U12	Thank you. This information can certainly be forwarded to the Chancellery of the Riigikogu and try to find the right time. But, of course, we must also be guided by what our order requires. Like I said, there's 20 days of trial. But thank you for these procedural questions. Now, good colleagues, we have two changes on the agenda this week, they are in favour of the Committee on Monetary and Economic Affairs. We will start preparing the voting on the agenda with these changes. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U13	I don't have a procedural question. I have a substantive question: did the committees also justify their proposal to withdraw these items from the agenda? The third item on the agenda on Wednesday relates in substance to the discussion of a national issue of key importance for Thursday, and they were very well aligned. Now there is a situation where this Wednesday item is withdrawn. What's the reason, do we know?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U14	Thank you. This is the decision of the committees, and the reason for it has not been communicated to me. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder, is it a matter of substance or procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U15	Still substantive, I only have substantive questions. Even procedural questions I can fill out with content, hopefully. But didn't the Riigikogu board have any interest at all? It is simply the Commission that said that we are taking these points out of the agenda approved by the Bureau and sent out on a broad scale, and you really did not have any interest in what the reason was?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U16	Thank you. The Board of the Riigikogu has not gathered on this issue today and this is a decision of the leading committees, based on our set of rules. Jürgen Ligi, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U17	The procedural question is: can I represent this Committee on Monetary Affairs for a moment where we have decided this way? Otherwise, there's only a question mark on the verbatim?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U18	Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U19	We naturally had a deep desire to get substantive answers to this draft within the framework of the OTRK on Thursday, too, but the reason for the withdrawal was that we had received hundreds of amendments, which we still have to analyse. There were many such proposals for a withdrawal from sovereignty, for example, that Estonia could not make decisions without Croatia and so on. It's not a real Soviet accession, but it's a major political turn by the National Conservatories. So we're gonna have to analyze all this for about a week.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U20	Thank you. Let's go to the preparations for the vote. Dear colleagues, may I go to the vote? I will vote on the approval of the 13th week agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu, along with these amendments. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U21	The agenda for this week has been approved with the result of 80 votes against 8 and 2 abstentions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U22	Let's go to the agenda today. The first item is the second reading of the draft law 347 on the prevention and control of communicable diseases initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. I ask Siret Kotka, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U23	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Social Committee dealt with the amendment of the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases, i.e. the draft between the first reading and the second reading at six regular sessions. On 23 April, several interest groups and relevant institutions and persons attended the meeting of the Commission: representatives of the Estonian Employers' Confederation, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, the Estonian Trade Union Confederation, the Chamber of bailiffs and bankrat administrators, the Estonian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises, the Office of the Chancellor of Justice and the Chamber of Notaries. The proposals of the Estonian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and the Chamber of Notaries were primarily linked to the reimbursement of sick days. This issue has previously been removed from the draft by the Commission, as the Riigikogu dealt with it in the draft law amending the Law on the organisation of health services and related amendments to other laws 355. EVEA's proposal was for the State to bear the costs of reimbursement of sick days related to close contacts. The Notaries' Chamber proposed that sickness benefits be paid from the funds of the sickness fund from the second to the fifth day of sickness. The Chamber of Law Enforcement and Bankruptcy Administrators supported the positions of the Chamber of Notaries. The Ministry of Social Affairs explained that, if these proposals were approved, the additional cost would be EUR 11.4 million for the State and not included in the additional budget for 2021. It was also pointed out that the 2014 court settlement found that self-employed persons had not been discriminated against in respect of sickness benefits. In addition, according to the Health and Safety at Work Act, they are also entitled to sickness benefit for themselves. The Chancellor of Justice also did not find in his letter of 2021 to the EVEA that this was unequal treatment. On 5 April, there was a debate on how the Health Board and the PBA have instructed people in the current crisis, what law enforcement measures have been taken so far, and for which the amendments to draft 347 concerning the involvement of the PBGB by the Health Board are necessary. The Health Board explained that the involvement of police officers has been accompanied by the conclusion of management contracts and the transfer of officials to the Health Board. Help is needed to inform people by telephone about close contact, public supervision and misdemeanour procedures. One Member of the Commission examined how the situation would be different from the situation to be announced when the draft came into force. The police are involved in both cases. Ms Mari-Anne Härma, Deputy Director General of the Health Board, replied that the two main phases of the eradication of the epidemic were generally shared. The first focuses on finding the close contacts of the infected and diverting the isolation to prevent the spread of the infection. This is a very resource-intensive activity, and in the case of a common infectious disease, such as tuberculosis or measles, it takes place on the assumption that there are no more than three small outbreaks in Estonia. The second phase is a phase of mitigation that will be transferred once national spread has been detected. Infected people are not involved in cases already known. At this stage, society is warned that the infection will spread and that it wants to stay at home, but life goes on as usual. In the current pandemic situation, it is not possible to fully switch to the second phase, as the public resource previously created to deal with communicable diseases was not intended to cope with such a level of pandemic. There is a need for as much resources as possible to identify close contacts and affected persons. The Commission was also asked why the Agency would not change its structure to carry out its tasks itself and to deal with similar situations in the future. In addition, given the extent of the spread of the current epidemic disease, the composition of the Health Agency should be significantly increased during the restructuring, but not all workers would normally be able to apply. Restructuring would also be costly for the State. The Agency's representative added that no proposal to introduce an emergency situation has been made, as all the measures that need to be implemented at the moment have been able to be introduced under the current legislation without declaring an emergency situation. The emergency situation shall be declared in accordance with the Emergency Act when emergency measures are required. The Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of the Interior explained that the Police and Border Guard Board had been involved in solving the epidemic since March last year. The resource for this purpose has also come in certain cases at the expense of the main job and as additional hours. The main focus of monitoring of compliance with restrictions is the control of shops, shopping centres and entertainment facilities. In addition, compliance with the obligation to wear masks and breaches of self-insulation have been examined. The Commission has examined why the law needs to be amended if the police are involved in all of this in the context of their normal work. It was answered that this was necessary for reasons of legal clarity and that, in certain situations, more resources were needed to support the Health Agency in carrying out its tasks. According to the current regulation, the police will draw up a surveillance file and send it to the Health Board, which will take a decision. However, this activity is resource-intensive and bureaucratic. It was examined whether the police would be granted additional rights under this bill. The answer was that there would be no extra rights. Today, the police still have these rights in accordance with law and order. It was pointed out that the change did not lead to a mass house review and any other abuses. Such measures have not been used during the corona epidemic. Rather, the PBA deals with compliance with the 2+2 rule and the wearing of a mask. At a meeting of the Commission held on 19 April, it was examined which law had transferred police officers to work at the Health Board. The representative of the Health Board explained that transfers have taken place on the basis of § 33 of the Public Service Act. These people perform the duties of an official at the Health Board because at the moment there are not enough employees at the Health Board. Eight police officers have been transferred to service until the health crisis has ended. Since an official must have the authority to supervise and misdemeanour proceedings, there are people who have been used by the PBGB. On the same day there was also a representative of the Estonian Civil Society Association, who presented his proposals and opinions on the draft 347. The Committee on Social Affairs took note of these opinions. A total of 169 amendments were tabled to the Committee on Social Affairs. One amendment came from the Social Democratic Party Group, two amendments from the Isamaa Group, 127 amendments from the Estonian Conservative People's Party, 39 members of the Riigikogu Kalle Grünthal. EKRE withdrew all his amendments, and Riigikogu member Kalle Grünthal left five proposals in the procedure; everyone else withdrew. The Committee on Social Affairs, as the lead committee, proposed four amendments to the draft. The Committee on Social Affairs dealt with amendments on 6 April, 8 April, 19 April and 20 April. There were 11 amendments in total. The Committee on Social Affairs took full account of four amendments, one amendment was partially taken into account and six amendments were disregarded. Amendment 1 was tabled by the Social Affairs Committee and the proposal deletes paragraphs 2 to 9 from the draft as the draft adopted by the Riigikogu already amended the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act, the Medicines Act, the Social Tax Act, the Cause of Death Act and the Health and Safety at Work Act. In addition, the title of the draft is therefore amended and related technical amendments are made. Amendment 2 was tabled by Ms Grünthal. The proposal defines an outbreak based on statistics for the last ten years. The Commission did not support the proposal because the proposal requires the first collection of 10-year statistics. COVID-19, however, lacks ten-year statistics and follows WHO guidance. However, in the case of diseases that have already occurred in the past, such as tuberculosis, statistics for ten years really apply. Amendment 3 was also tabled by Mr Grünthal. This proposal introduces the concept of "herd immunity," which should explain, before immunization, which group the person belongs to according to the definition of herd immunity. In order to avoid the complete closure of society and the economy, it is necessary to identify people who do not need vaccination. The Social Committee did not support the introduction of livestock immunity into the NETS, as it is an input provided by scientists, which should not be regulated by law. Amendment 4 was also tabled by Mr Grünthal. The proposal is in the Nets to provide that a person must not be subjected to medical or scientific tests against his or her free will. The Commission did not support the proposal because vaccination is not mandatory in Estonia, clinical trials are highly regulated in the European Union and there is no need for such changes. According to § 19 (2) of the Constitution, no one may be subjected to medical or scientific tests against his or her free will. Amendment 5 was tabled in the same way by Mr Grünthal. It is proposed to complement NETS with PCR testing and methodology. The applicant explained that the PCR test does not indicate the presence of the virus, but the presence of virus particles, and therefore, before a person can be recognised as a dangerous vector of infection, the test results should be compared with other data. The Commission did not support the regulation of the type of testing at law level in the NETS and rejected the proposal. Amendment 6 was tabled in the same way by Mr Grünthal. The proposal recommends that a person should be entitled not to be subject to compulsory vaccination or the use of personal protective equipment at his or her place of employment unless the Government of the Republic has imposed an obligation to do so. The Commission did not support the proposal and considered that there was no compulsory vaccination in Estonia. In the case of a workplace where personal protective equipment is necessary to protect itself or third parties, the employer shall have the right to require the use of personal protective equipment. Amendment 7, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, consists of two proposals. The first proposal recommends granting law enforcement authorities the right to use specific measures for a limited period of time, during the period of emergency announced by the Government of the Republic. The second proposal aims at enabling the Agency to involve law enforcement bodies in the fight against the epidemic spread of communicable diseases during emergency situations, as long as the Agency itself is unable to carry out its tasks. The Commission itself presented a compromise wording in Amendment No 8, which I will present immediately. Amendment 7 was therefore partially supported. Amendment 8, tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs. The Commission wishes that only in an emergency or in an emergency, which is the subject of an epidemic of infectious diseases, the Health Board may involve a law enforcement body. The Government of the Republic will decide whether to involve a law enforcement body. The inclusion rules shall be established in accordance with paragraph 6 of the same section. Amendment 9, tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs in the same way. The fines and fines shall be reduced in a manner similar to those laid down in § 48 of the current NETS. The draft contains a financial penalty of up to 200 fine units for breaching the requirements to prevent the epidemic spread of an infectious disease, with an amendment of 100 fine units. There was a financial penalty for the same act for the legal person up to EUR 32000, with an amendment of EUR 13000. Amendment 10 was tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs. The purpose of the amendment is to align the liability provisions of the law with those of the current law on fines and fines. The increase in the level of fines proposed by the initiator of the draft is therefore deleted. And Amendment 11, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which proposed the issue of sick and close contacts. In order to prevent and prevent occupational infections, the state could pay 100% compensation from the first day of illness. The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu rejected the proposal because the regulation of compensation for sick days was regulated in Bill 355 and the Riigikogu confirmed its will by adopting it as a law. Finally, it was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 4 May this year. It was a consensual decision. However, according to the proposal of the Riigikogu Board, the second reading was placed on the agenda of 3 May, i.e. today. Secondly, it was decided to propose that the second reading should be completed; this was also a consensual decision; and thirdly, to authorise the chairman of the committee to sign the documents for the second reading. This too was a consensual decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U24	Thank you, good waitress. You have at least one question. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Of all the five amendments to the draft I tabled to you by the Commission, I believe that this is most important in relation to the PCR test. But you rejected it. I also pointed out the number of reproduction cycles there, how much it could be. I'm going to ask you this question because you are incredibly familiar with this PCR test because I introduced it to you for almost an hour. Please tell me the number of reproduction cycles in the PCR test at SYNLAB and the Estonian Health Board, so that I can compare it with the number of reproduction cycles I have offered, as well as the number of reproduction cycles offered by the WHO.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U26	Thank you, Kalle Grünthal, for this question. The problem, as you have also said, is that the number of PCR reproduction cycles is 20 to 30 cycles and 30 to 35 cycles is a grey zone. I understand that this is the result of your entire question and your proposal, but once again: the Commission decided that, at the level of the law, we should not establish a methodology for carrying out PCR tests.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U27	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U28	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! I understand that all the changes that it says have actually come from the Health Board. And I recall even that it was only in the spring of last year that we dealt with it and had to have a very good law. Now we have a very good law, but there is still a need to improve it. We've left something out of it. We have an emergency law right now, we know what an emergency situation is and what martial law is. Have officials also made any suggestions that the powers in force during the war could be implemented under peacetime conditions? You never know, don't you? The Riigikogu is a rubber stamp, gives everything... Can you tell me if any martial law provisions are expected in today's circumstances?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U29	Thank you, good Tarmo Kruusimäe, for your question. As far as martial law is concerned, we did not deal with this bill. There were no amendments in this area either. When we are talking about the emergency situation, which was proposed by the Isamaa Group, there was no martial law in this regard either. We were confined to an emergency. And we're talking about an emergency.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U30	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Now listen to my question very carefully: what is the number of reproduction cycles of PCR tests in Estonia? I mean the tests carried out by Synlab or the Estonian Medicines Agency.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U32	Thank you. As for your question, thank you again for your question. I really appreciate you talking in the Commission for 45 minutes about the PCR test and this methodology and reading out an article that we also found and printed out. You didn't agree to send it to the members of the committee at the time. It's all there. Thanks again!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U33	Paul Woodland, please! Excuse me, Mr. Woodland! Kalle Grünthal, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U34	Thank you, Mr President. It is very strange for me to ask a specific question, and to answer me a completely different story. I'm totally confused about that. Does the President of the sitting of the Riigikogu have the right to intervene in the rapporteur's response if it absolutely does not relate to what I ask?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U35	Thank you. I don't like that you're confused. But as the chairman of the sitting of the Riigikogu, I will explain: the questioners ask, the respondents answer. And if it falls within the scope of the subject, of course, the President of the sitting will not intervene. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U36	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mr President. Good Siret! I very much liked the Commission's approach to one of the amendments proposed by Mr Grünthal. You said that this amendment should not be taken into account because the Constitution contains § 18, which says that no one must be subjected to medical and scientific tests against his or her will. I realized that that's quite enough, and that's why it doesn't have to be written into lower-level law. But here's the question. Do you also know that there is another paragraph in the Constitution, § 48, which says that the party that committed the crime must not exist, it is forbidden. However, we do have such a party. And also that there is a contradiction with the Constitution. Do you still think that the Constitution is quite sufficient for some legal provision to be permanent and to be fully in force?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U37	Thank you, Paul Pulpland! I understand that you want to cultivate malicious rhetoric in this large Chamber of the Riigikogu. I'm not going with you. With regard to this bill, we did not really talk about the constitution and whether one party was criminal or not. I understand you want to do this, bring it up, but let it stay in your sandbox.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U38	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U39	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! You said yourself that there was an emergency, which is like an emergency. These terms are going to get us all to some extent. The Prime Minister said that there is, in essence, an emergency situation, which means that we still have a normal situation. Which means you don't understand the limitations. But somewhere later, it turned out we had a medical emergency. How many times did you repeat these or these derivatives, these partial concepts? Well, there's a substantive emergency or a formal emergency or there might be more. That's my question. As chairman of the committee, can you say such a thing? If we had been declared a state of emergency, we should not be supplementing the law that we have already adopted last year. It would have solved all the problems. At this point, it solves indecisiveness. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U40	Thank you. The Committee on Social Affairs has tabled an amendment which is such that the Health Board may in future in an emergency or emergency involve the PBGB, a law enforcement body. And the Government of the Republic decides to include it. So, now that we look at the Commission's amendment to draft 347, we are actually creating more clarity.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U41	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U42	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I will continue on the subject raised by Paul Puustusmaa and remind you that we are legislators here. If the legislator takes a voluntaristic view of the law and finds that some laws, some paragraphs, may be contrary to the Constitution, for example, then we do not do quality work here. I wanted to remind the waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U43	Thank you, Mart Helme! As regards the amendment and the question of Paul Puustusmaa, they were not actually equivalent. They were pulled out. Just as Paul in Puustusmaa pulled the question out, so I answered him.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U44	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U45	Thank you. Now, I'm going to pull out one more question and not at all maliciously. I'm a good person, honestly, quite sincerely right now. Look, there's one important thing that people really want to know. I'm gonna try to pull that answer out now. Have we come so far with this amendment that the'material medical emergency' and these concepts have now become a firm frame? Is this emergency or emergency or medical emergency announced by a government decision on a specific date? Or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U46	Thank you. The Government of the Republic very clearly decides to involve the law enforcement body. How's that decision going? The government will also decide, for how long, whether it is on a deadline, whether it is on a date. All of this is a very clear decision of the Government of the Republic, which means that it gives the Health Board the right or does not grant the right once again: it is up to the Government of the Republic to decide that the Health Board may be involved in the work of the law enforcement body itself. I think it's clearer and it's right in that sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U47	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. It is desirable to open negotiations. I'm opening negotiations. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Martin Helme, please! Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U48	Dear Speaker of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, It has to be said that this draft is one of the major controversies and that our political group has seriously doubted the necessity of this draft. In this regard, a lot of false information has been disseminated and, unfortunately, the Commission's report left a version of events that are not quite correct. The first thing that needs to be clearly stated is that "but last year the government also converted the NETS and also granted certain rights to different institutions, so what do you have against it if we give more now"? Well, it must be said that I myself was at the table in the previous government for these discussions and there were a number of proposals that came from ministries and other authorities, which we categorically rejected. In our view, the power that the various authorities wanted was too much and without justification. And now when the Nets came back on the table, it wasn't necessary to study for a long time, we immediately recognized the old friends. Proposals a year ago, which we had beaten back once, were all written down again. So we didn't have much new or interesting but irritating. Now two: it is as if we are denying the corona and resisting the fight against the corona, we want to stop it. That is absolutely not true. We have always supported sensible solutions in the fight against corona, both when we have been in opposition and when we have been in government. And thirdly, we withdrew all our amendments and ended the obstruction and it is as if we are in the middle of a conversation here. But that's just the beginning of the story. We withdrew our amendments because we agreed with the government departments that such changes would be made, which would come from the Commission and resolve our concerns, will take down the bad sections that we were not satisfied with from the start. So the fact that we stopped obstructing our obstruction, that is to say, the Riigikogu's work, was directly related to the fact that we got what we had wanted from the beginning. We got the worst, most dangerous sections out of this bill. So it's not like we gave up something and got nothing in return. We have obtained a reasonable agreement which once again confirms what I have already said that we have never opposed reasonable solutions to the management of the corona apandemia and the grubbing-up of Estonia. Is the bill that has reached second reading now one that we love very much? We would continue to have preferred that such a bill not be brought to us at all. We still have amendments in here that will come to the vote immediately, which we intend to support and hope they will go in. But regardless of whether or not we support this draft with or without amendments in its final version, we can at least be pleased that, in cooperation with the demonstrators who expressed their concerns on the street, and thanks to the courage and reasonableness of our group in negotiating with the government departments, we have grazed the worst things out of this bill. And that means that we no longer need to obstruct the work of the Riigikogu in this way. Nor must this agreement be abused by trying to give the impression that we have simply abandoned the fight. We won! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U49	Thank you. I now ask Kalle Grünthal to speak to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U50	Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that there is no human being in this Chamber, at least I hope that there is no one who does not want Estonia to be able to end any restrictions on the Korona and we can go back to the normal way of life, so that people can go back to work to earn a living, that businesses and shops, schools are open and that cultural and social life will work as it should in a normal society. Unfortunately, we are faced with the problem that the removal of restrictions is linked to such peculiar but also fundamental indicators, which use words such as the number of cases, the results of tests, cases of disease and the number of infections. This confusion of concepts is not compatible with the scientific assessment of the epidemic situation. In this context, the WHO, in part 20 of its letter published in 2021, i.e. in January, has stated that SARS-CoV-2 must have a decisive number of infections and morbidity, not a positive number or other cases. The WHO has also followed the views of the inventors of the PCR test here, which explicitly states that the PCR test is not suitable for diagnostic use and therefore does not in itself say anything about human disease or infection. According to the 2020 studies, if the PCR value exceeds 24 reproduction cycles, the reproductive virus is no longer detectable and the PCR test is not suitable for detection of infection. This is not simply said, but is based on the judgment of the Vienna Administrative Court of 24 March 2021. In addition to this decision, the Belgian court has taken similar decisions. This information is also available on the website of the Danish and Swedish Ministry of Health. What is the situation in Estonia? Today I asked Siret Kotka, the rapporteur for the bill, what is the number of reproduction cycles used in Estonia for the PCR test. I did not get an answer the first time, the answer spoke of my proposals on the draft. I later specified that you should listen to the question: what is the number of reproduction cycles? There was no answer this time either. Question: why didn't you come? There are two options. Whether our Riigikogu commission, which examines these issues, is not really aware of the number of reproduction cycles that put society at a standstill, or the other option: they do not want to study it because there is someone in the world who has an interest for me to say that I am lame enough to show a high number of people who are infected all the time. But the head of the Commission should, in fact, know this, both the head of the Commission and all the members of the Commission. I argued today and said in the Commission that in Estonia the result of the PCR test is in SYNLAB 35 to 40, as well as, say, in the Estonian Health Board. This significantly exceeds the WHO criterion. Thus, it can be clearly and briefly noted that both scientists and the various European courts have given a clear signal that the currently used PCR testing gives a significant degree of false, false-positive responses. Therefore, our statistics, on which we base decisions on business closures and isolation, are also likely to be incomplete. And here I have a request from the good members of the Riigikogu: please support the amendment I tabled, which the Commission rejected so that the methodology for doing the PCR tests can be incorporated into the law! I beg you very much, and the entire people of Estonia will ask you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U51	I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Mikhail Lotman!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U52	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, There are many important, and even I would say, positive things in this bill that we are currently dealing with. Nevertheless, as a whole, I find this draft unacceptable. Imagine you're going the wrong way and doing this, you're going to trade some bad car for a bigger car, a better car. You're still going the wrong way, only faster. And that's not the solution to the problem. What do we got? We have certain problems in society regarding this pandemic. Many things we cannot solve, based on the current situation, which is not an emergency situation. For example, why can't we cancel charter flights to those places where there are new corona virus mutations? Well, because we don't have an emergency. But why don't we have an emergency? But we do not need an emergency, because we have a basically special situation. Then why can't we at least check or quarantine all the people who come to these dangerous places? Well, that would require an emergency. But why don't we have an emergency? Well, because we have a substantive emergency, and there is no need for a real emergency. And then, what's going on? Then there's an emergency light, we call it an emergency or some other situation. I'd call it a step-by-step emergency. That we do not want a real emergency, it is too harsh, and, above all, most importantly, it would require a completely different responsibility from the Head of Government, which he does not want to assume for some reason. And then we're going to set up these paragraphs that we have. Our Prime Minister loves to talk about the rule of law. One important feature of the rule of law is that it is governed by the law. The rule of law has several opposites and one of them is an administrative state. The administration is also governed by law. But it's as it is now in Russia. If something needs to be done, some kind of law will be passed that allows the government to do some sort of action, such as shut down universities, shut down newspapers and imprison all those who doubt that Crimea is part of Russia, all by law. That's the difference. The administration, unlike the rule of law, rules by law, but not by law, does not respect the Constitution. And it's a big threat. I don't want to compare Estonia to Putin Russia in any way, but all bad, all avalanches begin with the movement of a small stone. And that is why we are against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U53	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Tarmo Kruusimäe!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U54	Thank you, good Chairman! Good fellow fighters both in this room and behind the TV screens, and those who follow the session online, as well as the people you have gathered in front of this house! But also those who are anxious for work for a long time now, for it would be good to keep up with themselves! We're having a hard time, but the banker's gonna give us a chance to catch our breath. But, after all, we have to fulfil our obligations to the bank, which is the main concern. That's what people think. And then we say that these people are conspiracy theorists. A conspiracy theorist, as I have now seen with Mr Google, cannot be studied. You can't learn, but a theorist can be anyone whose opinion doesn't really matter to us. Or it's too complicated for us, and then it's easy and good to label. Whoever said he wanted to be a flat countryman, the others are round countrymen. I think that the earth as such is extremely amorous at all and, from a distance, it takes the form of God, because all astronauts who have come back from outer space have turned to God. But as a conspiracy theorist, people actually become when they hear a lot of incomprehensible expressions. I apologize for the expression, but there was once a pretty used radio saying that I was "almost pregnant." This is essentially an emergency situation, which means that it is a normal situation. Who, then, really determines these situations? Once there was a psalm: "I once had a situation that required clarification. 'Cause if it's time, it's time. That's where the talk came from. " I changed the lyrics a little, of course, but let it be. Apparently, the Health Board can declare a medical emergency on its own. And then the Prime Minister says, yes, yes, we now have a medical emergency, and that's why we didn't have to do an emergency. The health department made this one of its own. I think we actually have a cultural emergency in Estonia right now. And many find that we have an educational emergency. Or vice versa: it is possible that, if this medical emergency of the Health Board is over, the Minister of Culture will announce that we now have a cultural emergency and now such festers will come that, Irja, hold your head. You see, the crowd goes by holding hands and sings off from the corona, the COVID, and the solar system. There's nothing to do. Then comes the Minister of Education and Science and says that now we have an educational emergency, which is essentially a part of this emergency situation, and now we are all going to the Estonian language together immediately. The complicated thing is that a person listens to this talk and to these terms and does not know, is then or is not a thing that causes people to be ignorant. The Health Board has not been able to communicate with its people, has not been able to give them unambiguous answers. Well, well, we're the ones who haven't actually gotten single answers here, aren't we? We're still trying and trying. On the next item, this classic good example is: you ask if this number is 5 or 7, and there is always a long story to be said when you answer, but this number if there is no such thing. I think that the next rapporteur who speaks in the debate on other items on the agenda may think that this is an athletic achievement. You saw how tough I was: I didn't say that number! All right, these other items on the agenda are what they are, but right now we are actually talking about people, about public health and about people not understanding decisions. Conspiracy theories are spreading. We know that if we had a government that dared to decide the way it was before, then the emergency would actually have been announced. We'd get out of it peacefully, and maybe we could celebrate Midsummer Day and August night before the third wave. Thank you. No, I don't.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U55	I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu Mart Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U56	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, This is not just a draft, it is a draft of symbolic importance. This bill has been the result of one month of demonstrations before the Riigikogu. This has led to an obstruction attempt by our group to call on the minds of members of coalition parties, the government, so that this draft becomes something that adds value to society, but nothing that paves the way for the very dangerous development that we are seeing in Estonia today. I'd even say brutally. We see that this law, the Media Services Act, but also the European Union's recovery fund, as well as a number of other drafts, pave the way for what my colleague from Fatherland called an administrative state. But I would say more cruelly: it paves the way for the power of the junta in Estonia. Who is this junta? This junta is a company between the special services and the authorities who will decide when to apply force, how much force to apply, what force to apply, what to allow, what not to allow, who is on the right side, who is not on the right side, by which we justify, what we reject. This law would provide an opportunity for completely Stalinist voluntarism. And that is why this draft is of symbolic importance, and that is why our party, our group, has been in favour of not adopting this law. We have succeeded, and it has not been easy for us and the coalition parties to reach a gentle compromise on this draft at the moment. Yes, we can probably continue to live if this bill is approved by the Riigikogu. We think that this is still a bad bill, but we can live with it already, because it will not give a green light if we use this traffic light comparison, the full approval of the powers of the junta. This law alone does not allow it. If we add to this other draft, which is pending, which, as I said, is a whole lot, this risk will persist. By the way, I was just looking at the Postman Web interview. 30% of people in this survey think that freedom of expression is at risk in Estonia. The issues of freedom of expression, but also freedom of operation, personal freedom are very keenly on the agenda in this draft. We hear highly respected people already call those who refuse vaccination murderers, we hear people who call themselves scientists essentially dictate themselves to the society that lies ahead. Now I've been watching, Irja Lutsar says: there will be no big events in the summer. Well, that's great! He's some kind of higher creature lightning rod or antenna that'll give us the higher-ranking knowledge. I'm sure the Old God knows if we're having events, mass events in the summer, or not. I don't know. I think the President of the Riigikogu sitting behind me doesn't know either, I think the Prime Minister doesn't know, I think the President doesn't know either. It still depends on... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U57	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U58	This still depends on what concrete developments will take place in the coming month, for example. But he already knows. I remember when we were still in the government, he knew there was no need to wear masks. You don't have to wear masks, masks don't give you anything. Now he knows the opposite. And we could give more examples of scientists who once say one, once again another. What do I mean by that? I mean that society cannot go the path of anarchy, but society cannot go the way of authoritarian or totalitarian leadership. And that's why we're here to be the sieve and filter that doesn't let this pass through the bill that allows society to develop in one way or another, either anarchy or totalitarianism. That's why we're here. We are unfortunately seeing the parade of incompetence, of letting go and of foolishness in the case of the current government. A completely incomprehensible mania of trimming, a totally incomprehensible mania of imposing restrictions, a completely incomprehensible mania of declaring certain things a monopoly on truth, the compartmentalisation of society into flatlanders and non-natives. This is not acceptable if it is done at government level. If this is done at the level of the press serving the government, it is not acceptable. This is absolutely unacceptable! So, ladies and gentlemen, please understand that we are a filter that must ensure that Estonia remains a free citizen's society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U59	I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Peeter Ernitsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U60	Ladies and gentlemen, Good manager! I'll ask for a few more minutes of what I can get later.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U61	I'm sorry! You want more time, right?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U62	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U63	180 seconds can be gained to the maximum. Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U64	When this bill came, I was convinced that the coalition road roll would roll over. That it would roll over many of the people who clogged our mailboxes with hundreds and hundreds of so-called spams, and those who gathered in front of the castle. It was a hopeless feeling. But at one point, I realized that even in a hopeless situation, a roller could be stopped together. And thanks to all of you who stood up to it, we stopped the roller. Yes, this bill is not an angel of any kind, but worse things we've managed to rake out of there with the agreement of the government coalition. Actually, you wouldn't need that law at all. Police chiefs have also said that we have an emergency law. I myself was in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs when it was done. And I wouldn't need all that. But the current government coalition has not declared an emergency situation. Although people have suffocated much, much more than before during this coalition. You go blue on your face, you get oxygen, 12 or 15 liters a minute, and there you go. It's actually serious. But I don't want to start talking about some sort of PCR test nuance or something. Much more important is what this bill showed us, the Estonian people. We haven't gotten here yet to see why the chief of police and the Minister of the Interior have lied to us. We're gonna get there. But why was the riot police brought out at a time of complete calmness? Why were dogs brought out? Why was the threat to state independence discussed? Yet it was done. Vassiti, lied, threatened. And while people came out with a slogan "No police state!" when the stupid government coalition must be an excuse for the expression! If people are worried about the police state coming, will the special units of the police be brought out and the Riigikogu will be shut down with metal barriers around the Russian church? They must still be not the sharpest pencils that come with such talk or action if there is no reason. Kaja Kallas, Prime Minister, has come to present the white book, his photograph book. And he asked the Minister of the Interior and the police to postpone the day he brought the metal fences and the riot police so he could calmly tell us about the traffic light here. They're all side-by-side issues, but they're related to the bill. My colleague, Mart Helme, spoke a little bit about this. Indeed, when it comes to the fact that a police state is a country where tear gas and batons flash, it has not been in Estonia. But the signs that show that we're going somewhere where we don't want to be are pretty likely there. And the story of the coalition's birth begins with that. This was not a coup d'état, a common coup d'état involving armed forces. There were special services here. But the thought remains the same. All these are small signs that come in different drafts and with which people who are in the castle square and people who are not here but have sent us worried letters do not agree. They don't have time to go along with it, and they don't have to go along with it. That's why we're here, different political parties, different political groups. I can say that the clear signs contained in the various drafts are worrying. And on this bill, so many people have awakened and come out with their worries. People don't need to know exactly what these details are, but they're awake. Unfortunately, the country has acted completely inadequately here. But actually, people should come out a lot more. I've been in contact with a lot of posters who first crossed our mailboxes with spam letters, and many letters were sent directly to the trash. Now I've been talking to them until the last few days. And they're smart people. But all of them have their jobs, and there really isn't time to get up to speed on everything. But people are worried. However, one thing is good about this draft: people have discovered that they also have someone who should represent them in Parliament. And I think the interest in making politics real is growing. This is such a pleasant conclusion of my correspondence over the last few weeks or months. But, yeah, like I said, there's nothing wonderful about this bill. This is simply an agreement reached as a result of a difficult struggle with the current coalition. So thank you for that! Together, we've managed to prevent the worst. It would be best if this bill did not exist at all. But at the same time, you have to understand that, just as you can't hear or see in the war zone, I've always worn a vest, a helmet on my head, even though they don't always save the virus, the same way we don't see the virus. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Let's just say that the worst situation we've got isn't, but it's better if this bill hadn't been at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U65	Thank you. I request the speech chair of the Riigikogu Siret Kotka!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U66	Good chairman of the sitting! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I want to put it to you that it is really important for every member of the Riigikogu to face the people. And it is important for us to be face-to-face, and that is what we have actually shown very clearly in the process of this Nets. The people have shown their dissatisfaction, they have had fears. In the Committee on Social Affairs, we discussed these fears and made proposals along with other parties. There were all the parties at the table. When we talk about the amendments, there were both the Fatherland and the EKRE who wanted to compromise on some of the provisions that could go on. And it is very clearly important both to the Centre Party and to the Reform Party, which is part of the government, so that we take into account both the people and other parties in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. We are still running this country together, and this is important. And secondly, I want to say that this bill contained points that caused certain fears, and those fears we took out together. It's a good job we do together in that sense. When we talk about fine rates or we talk about the fact that the Government of the Republic decides very clearly now, it is not right to say that the government somehow wants to run over people and does not see people. That's not true. On the contrary, if we take this bill, people and all the other parties have been seen here, who have given some of their thoughts to this NETS. So I'm glad that actually we've gone on together. And you have to stand up to people, not look anywhere else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U67	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Let us now begin the examination of the 347 amendments to the draft. The first amendment. Statement put forward by the lead committee: take full account. Second amendment, tabled by Ms Grünthal. Lead committee: not to be taken into account. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U68	Thank you, President-in-Office. On behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U69	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. Can we go to the vote? I shall vote on Amendment 2 at the request of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. This has been presented by Kalle Grünthal, the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U70	With the result in favour 19, against 68, the amendment was not supported by an abstention. Amendment 3 This has been presented by Kalle Grünthal, the position of the commission: not to be taken into account. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U71	I also ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U72	Can we go to the vote? Thank you! I shall put to the vote Amendment 3, tabled by Mr Grünthal. The position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U73	With the result by 19, against 71, the proposal was not supported. Amendment 4 is tabled by Mr Grünthal. The position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U74	Thank you. I also ask for this amendment to be voted on at the request of our group.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U75	Thank you. Can we go to the vote? I shall put to the vote Amendment 4, tabled by Mr Grünthal. The position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U76	With the result in favour of 19, the amendment was rejected by 70. Amendment 5 has also been tabled by Mr Grünthal. The position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U77	Thank you. There has been much debate on this subject here today, in essence, on both sides, but we are asking for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U78	Then we start preparing the vote. Can we go to the vote? Thank you! I shall put to the vote Amendment 5 tabled by Mr Grünthal. The position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U79	With the result of 18 votes in favour, 73 against, the amendment was not supported. Amendment 6 is tabled by Mr Grünthal. The position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U80	Thank you, President-in-Office. We are asking for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U81	Let's start preparing the vote. Can we go to the vote? Thank you! I shall put to the vote Amendment 6, tabled by Mr Grünthal. The position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U82	With the result of 19 votes in favour, 74 against, the amendment was not supported. Amendment 7 is tabled by the Isamaa Group. The position of the lead committee: to be taken into account in part. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U83	Thank you. I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U84	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. Can we go to the vote? Thank you. I shall put to the vote Amendment 7, tabled by the Isamaa Group. The position of the lead committee: to be taken into account in part. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U85	With the result of 30 votes in favour, 55 against, the amendment was not supported. Amendment 8 has been tabled by the lead committee. Position: Take full account. Amendment 9, tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 10, tabled by the lead committee. Position: Consider both to be fully taken into account. Amendment 11 is tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U86	Thank you. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U87	Can we go to the vote? Thank you. I shall put to the vote Amendment 11, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U88	With the result of 10 votes in favour, 74 against, the amendment was not supported. Dear colleagues, with this we have examined all the amendments. Thank you for your cooperation. The commission has proposed that the second reading of draft 347 be terminated. The second reading is closed and the first item is also dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U89	Let's move on to the second item, which is the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the resolution of the Riigikogu on the establishment of a Special Committee on Supervision of Security Institutions, submitted by the Estonian Reform Party Group and the Estonian Centre Party's Group. I request Mart Võrguship, a member of the Riigikogu, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U90	[[Remote connection]] Ladies and gentlemen, I hope you can hear me.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U91	I can hear you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U92	On 15 February 2021, on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Estonian Central Party, I submitted a draft amendment to the Riigikogu's decision on the establishment of a special supervisory committee for security authorities. Its content was to amend the Riigikogu decision made on 16 May 2019 and to amend the principle of establishing a committee. One way is to do this is because of the principle of parity; the other is to do it on the basis of the principle of proportionality. As our performers, we wanted to change the principle of the composition of the Commission and we proposed that the Commission be set up in the future in accordance with the principle of proportionality. This proposal was due to the fact that each Riigikogu has the right and obligation to decide on the basis of the formation of special committees. At the beginning of the work of this composition, it has been decided that this could be done according to the principle of parity. And this, in turn, because we had a coalition made up of three groups, led in reality to the fact that the coalition held the majority in the composition of the special committees. Now, when the coalition changed, or instead of three political groups, two political groups became part of it, a situation arose in the special committees where the coalition no longer had the majority, but was in the hands of the opposition. Our proposal was based on ensuring the same factual situation that was decided at the beginning of this membership: that the majority of the special committee would continue to be in the hands of the coalition. We discussed the same draft on 23 February in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. There was quite a long and thorough debate. And since it was evident that there was no consensus or common understanding between the opposition and coalition ambassadors, we agreed that we would try to find a compromise. With all the political groups, work has been done on this and this compromise has been sought. On 20 April we discussed this draft again and by then a compromise solution had been found in the political groups. Paragraph 98 (1) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu provides that a commission may, with the consent of the initiator or author of the draft, submit the draft to the first reading as amended if the initiators of the draft so agree. The draft 334 of the Riigikogu decision, as amended, has now been submitted to the first reading, which contains this compromise reached by the political groups. The proposal to establish the Commission on the basis of the principle of proportionality has been replaced by the proposal to set up committees on the basis of the principle of equal representation between the coalition and the opposition. In other words, the special committees have equal members from both the opposition and the coalition. In fact, if you look back in time, perhaps even four compositions, most of the time there has been such a balance and equal representation in the special committees. This is largely due to the fact that parity has been the basis for the appointment of members, but since mostly four political groups have been elected to the Riigikogu, there have been two in the coalition, the situation has been in line with the principle of parity. Everyone in the Commission was in favour of such a proposal. I hope that this will also be approved today in this Chamber at first reading. It is also important to note that two other special committees, not on this draft, but in the Special Committee on Anti-Corruption and the Special Committee on State Budget Control, the opposition will continue to be in charge, just as it has been before, and just as there is good practice. That's all for me. I'm waiting for questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U93	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U94	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! The last time we dealt with it here, several times you were asked how many members this committee would be. You didn't have that knowledge at the time, you kind of twisted yourself out. However, other coalition politicians came to the rescue and explained what the number was. But I ask you, have you already seen the number that existed in the original form of the bill? And perhaps, if you do not know, how many members will this committee be under the current draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U95	Thank you for that question. First of all, I have to make it clear that this bill is in this Chamber at first reading. In the past, we have discussed the composition of the two committees of concern and, in one case, the draft terms of office. This draft is here for the first time and, in fact, the number of its members is determined by the Bureau. It's hard for me to speak for the board today, to promise something. So this is the right of the board to decide. However, it may be conceivable that we have three opposition parties today and that everyone gets a single seat there and the coalition mans three places accordingly. In fact, in this case, for example, a special committee on the supervision of security authorities could have six members. This is one solution, but it cannot be said that it has to be exactly that way and that it is. It's still up to the board. But since I've been asked for numbers, I've offered one thought and an opportunity.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U96	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U97	Thank you, Mr President. I have a question about the concepts used in this draft decision: the opposition and the coalition. In my opinion, our law on home and working procedures does not use such terms, and my question to the rapporteur is: in what legislation is it fixed, who or what can be called a coalition and who or what can be called an opposition? When I read this draft decision, it's like somewhere it should be defined. It seems to me that these are completely unclear terms that are not mentioned in our internal procedures. Who, then, will be defined when these concepts come into use? Please explain to me where these concepts come from and where they are defined.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U98	Thank you. Indeed, the concept of opposition and coalition is not defined in our domestic and operational rules, but we all use them every day, both in the work of the Riigikogu and in the work of local governments. And we still have quite clear in this hall and also in the public, what is the opposition and what is the coalition. It is the coalition that exercises power and has agreed to a coalition agreement. And the opposition is the one who basically supervises the coalition's work or the exercise of power and, in the same way, manages the country. I believe that in essence coalition and opposition are very clear concepts. If it weren't clear to us, it was as if we couldn't do our job here every day. We do not have these questions every day in our work, but really we bring these concepts into legislation for the first time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U99	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U100	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! Let me get this straight. From now on, it is actually the case that, depending on the free will of the ambassadors, the number of members of the committees is going to change. Why am I asking that? In the previous Riigikogu, for example, the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee was Marko Mihkelson, who at one point left the Fatherland Group of free will. And then it didn't occur to the coalition that there should be some way to raise the Commission to have a representation like this. But today, I realize that in the new coalition, in case someone falls away from somewhere, there's a plan to put somebody on the committees. What happens when you actually have a change in strength? It's not gonna turn back, it's gonna be more. We're finally gonna get these mega-committees. There could still be a line.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U101	Thank you. I'm trying to explain now. I thought the question was a little unclear. However, at the beginning of each Riigikogu, special committees and principles on the basis of which they are formed shall be agreed. Each political group has the right to appoint its own representative. If a member of a political group who is on a special committee decides to leave or leave a political group, the group can appoint a new person or leave the same person if it thinks it wants to. Very simple. However, all political groups are represented and each political group itself decides who it will appoint or who it will recall.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U102	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U103	Thank you. I still come back to my question. I understand that you are the first in the product legislation to have concepts such as 'opposition' and 'coalition', but neither the legislation nor its explanatory memorandum describe who or what can be called a coalition and what or who can be called an opposition. Your claim that we understand and the people understand who we are talking about is not like a very competent Riigikogu in such decisions. It seems to me that we should still find out about this. And in the same way, what about those people who are not part of any coalition and have not joined any political group, are completely 'free' and will vote as the heart commands at the moment? Are they the coalition or the opposition? How are their rights protected?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U104	I think that in the work of the Riigikogu we understand very clearly who the coalition is and who the opposition is. There is probably no question in the Chamber today that the Reform Party and the Centre Party have formed a coalition, and the Fatherland, the EKRE and the Social Democratic Party are in opposition. That is the case, and I think it is equally understandable. However, Members who do not belong to a political group will also be able to agree with some opposition party, if necessary, and be elected by the Commission, if that is their wish and if the political group considers it necessary and correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U105	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U106	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Could you tell us whether the Party of Estonia's Green XI was in opposition or coalition in 2009-2011?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U107	It's hard for me to say right now. I don't have that information on hand, I don't know exactly what those formations are. Can't answer that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U108	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. It is difficult to answer that last question, if not impossible. All right, let's move on to a good pace here. Here's the next report. Member of the Constitutional Commission, Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U109	This draft was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at two meetings, on 23 February and 20 April. On 23 February we had a longer debate. There too, on behalf of the drafters, Mr Mart Võrguship presented the first version of the draft at the time, which sought to determine the composition of the Commission on the basis of the principle of proportionality. In other words, the composition of the special committee would be in the same proportion as that of the Riigikogu in plenary. On this proposal, Urmas Reinsalu considered that such a version could certainly not be supported, that this amendment was not appropriate and that a solution should be found for special committees which would not lead to a breach of parliamentary practice. That this is certainly a violation of parliamentary practice. Urmas Reinsalu stressed that there are very few practices in the Estonian Parliament that are as weighty as the appointment of members of special committees. Mr Reinsalu proposed not to send the draft in this form to plenary. Paul Puustusmaa seconded to Urmas Reinsalu and found that these arguments are very compelling, that time should be taken off and that the leaders of political parties and political groups could discuss this subject a little more thoroughly. Mr Toomas Kivimägi, Chairman of the Commission, considered that yes, he basically agrees with the time-out, but the question is not only that we should definitely seek a compromise with this, we all agree, whether we are in the opposition or in the coalition. However, in order to find a reasonable compromise, input should also be provided. He asked those present to offer where the representatives of the political groups could go in seeking a compromise. Oudekki Loone found that, as far as the content is concerned, of course, he has always personally advocated having a special committee under the supervision of security authorities under the control of the opposition. This clearly guarantees that democracy is not threatened by security authorities. And Parliament's role is to control the security authorities, which gives the citizens the necessary assurance. But the point of the compromise could be that we are asking not so much what the composition is, but, for example, how it will be decided. One compromise mechanism could be the requirement that special committees can only take consensual decisions. Then we wouldn't have such a big problem with what the composition is. Urmas Reinsalu found the question to be what we mean by compromise. It's either that we're just talking, or there could be more. Mart Võrguship confirmed that the coalition is certainly ready to discuss these issues, but it should be mutual, the opposition should seize the opportunity. Toomas Kivimägi confirmed that yes, we agree, time will be taken off. The question is simply that we need substantive inputs. The argument that we are going to practice is, in fact, interpreted in many ways. Instead, the situation can be viewed as a violation of the practice for the last two years, not as a violation of the practice. He once again asked for the opinions of the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Oudekki Loone felt that in order to make a smaller package to meet the opposition, it would be very useful for the opposition to present its basic positions which were not exactly suited to them. The willingness to compromise means that, in some form, we will adopt this bill, but we will correct it. If the opposition's position is that the draft cannot be made reasonable, it must be removed from the proceedings, then there is no point in moving forward in seeking a compromise. I could give you that information. Toomas Kivimägi also confirmed that the compromise is not a withdrawal of the draft. The compromise is also not that the coalition says that now we are going exactly as we demand. There's a compromise somewhere in between. At the same time, all the parties considered that this bill really needs to be discussed with all the parties once again, that we will continue to discuss in the Commission that we are not currently sending it to the Chamber. And we also decided on some of the following drafts. A consensus had been reached by 20 April. Mart Võrguship presented the draft as amended once more, exactly as he introduced it this time. The amendment is that the opposition and the coalition have an equal number of members in the special committees. Lauri Läänemets asked what would happen to non-attached members of the Riigikogu. Mart Võrguship found that no matter what happens to them, the principle of equal representation of the coalition and opposition must not be violated by this decision. This was confirmed by Toomas Kivimägi, who found that if a member of the Riigikogu does not belong to any political group, he still belongs somehow to the opposition or coalition. Councillor Helin Leichter commented that according to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, a non-attached member of the Riigikogu is always appointed by the Board of the Riigikogu and the Management Board is based on the wishes of a member of the Riigikogu and the interests of the organisation of work. On this basis, the Management Board of the Riigikogu can also appoint a member of a special committee which is not a political group. The following decisions were taken: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 4 May 2021, to propose that the draft be closed at first reading, to set the deadline for amendments at 4 p.m. on 7 May, to appoint Mr Lone, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as rapporteur and to submit the draft to the first reading as amended. All decisions were taken by consensus by the Commission. The Riigikogu Board decided to put the draft on the Riigikogu agenda today, 3 May, for the sake of a more reasonable distribution of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U110	Thank you, good waitress. You also have questions, at least one. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U111	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Honourable waitress! I would go on with the question of Eduard Odines, but a little from a different perspective. For example, when someone has resigned from the Centre Party Group, on certain issues the opposition supports the coalition on certain issues, but at the same time a member of the Commission is also mentioned. So how do you qualify for his status: he's in opposition or coalition?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U112	Thank you. We did not discuss this issue in this form in the Commission. We found that the Riigikogu's board of directors decides on the non-attached members of the Riigikogu. However, if I answer you myself, if the Centre Party has presented its representative and this person should leave, or if, for example, the Social Democrats present a special committee at Heljo Pikhof and Heljo Pikhof decide that he no longer wants to be part of the Social Democrats, then the Social Democratic Party will always have the opportunity to replace his representative in this special committee. It is not related to a person; there is still a representative of the political groups in the Commission. And here, indeed, it is important, which we have also mentioned in the Commission: this amendment has in mind this important principle that all political groups are represented in all the special committees.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U113	Heljo Pikhof, please! Let's try it again. I guess I don't want to ask Heljo another question. Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Thank you very much. Let's move on to this point. Looks like there's a negotiation request. I open negotiations and ask for a speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group Lauri Läänemets.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U114	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I say that the Social Democrats are not going to make any proposals here, but I would still like to mention our position. And this view is as follows. However, what is happening in this Parliament, the 'greater context', is a serious concern, and it is precisely as regards the supervision of political action and compliance with policy rules at all. One would ask why, in these special committees, the coalition needs either a majority or at least an equal mandate with the opposition. What's the reason for this? These are special committees whose task, for example, is to look at the special committee on state budget control, to check what the government does, how the government does, how Parliament's will is implemented, how the budget is used. It must all be in accordance with the rules. Or a special anti-corruption commission. I don't know why you need most of the coalition. After all, there is a majority in the hall, it is a control committee, it is a committee that makes sure that no one breaks any laws, so that no one takes advantage of their position of power, either in government or in parliament. Democracy is built on the logic that some exercise power and are supervised by others. The representative of the initiators of the draft also pointed out that the two special committees now have a leading position in the opposition's hands. But it is not very helpful, because the committees make decisions and decisions, as a rule, in the end, they will vote. What really depends on the votes, and when the votes split in half, how do we put things on the agenda, for example, when there is something to be examined? Very complicated! Very complicated! In fact, with these amendments, the Centre Party and the Reform Party are asking for the possibility of blocking themselves of unpleasant matters within the special committees which are designed to exercise control, to supervise the activities of the same parties when they are in the government. Or it doesn't matter which parties' activities. And if we put it in a broader context, for example, as regards the anti-corruption agenda, there is no political corruption in it. All right, let's keep thinking. The Social Democrats brought here a bill for a large hall that would have solved quite a number of important problems that are currently left open in the law. They concern the work of the Political Financing Monitoring Committee. It was voted down. It was said that the Minister of Justice would sum up some major thought struggles, the subject will be discussed, thought, the intention to develop, and perhaps somewhere will be reached before the elections. Maybe they'll even make it to this big hall. Well, I kind of doubt knowing how slow these things are going. But this draft, which was voted down, did not touch on any new principles. This was only about what the Chancellor of Justice and the Committee on Financing of Political Parties had pointed out: that there are obligations in the law to do something about it, but how to do it, it has not been written. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U115	Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U116	And now let's put it all together. The anti-corruption agenda does not specifically mention the investigation of political corruption. Indeed, quite a number of drafts, not just one draft, but a number of drafts, which have been voted on in this Chamber in recent months, which have been presented by the Socialists and which would really help to facilitate the investigation of political corruption and investigate possible violations, have been voted down. They have really been tied up, either directly or indirectly, to members of several parliamentary parties or even to one of the government departments. These same special control committees could contribute to the emergence, identification of possible political corruption, but, for some reason, it is very important to turn these committees off indirectly in this way. Because if the coalition still holds the majority, or even it is enough that the coalition has half the votes, it is not possible if the Commission wants to study some very important and perhaps also painful issues for the coalition, not even put them on the agenda. We are very concerned about that. Kaja Kallas, as Prime Minister, took office and promised to deal with all this. Today we have seen virtually no action in this direction. And that is why, with concern, we are looking at all these drafts on the logic of the configurations with concern, whether they concern the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities or the Special Committee on State Budget Control and the Special Committee on Anti-Corruption.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U117	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 334 be completed. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 7 May at 16 a.m. The first reading is closed and the second item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U118	We will move on to the third item, which is the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the decision of the Riigikogu on the "Constitution of a Special Committee on State Budget Control" submitted by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Estonian Central Party. I ask for the floor to be given to a member of the Riigikogu, Mart Võrguship.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U119	[[Remote connection]] Colleagues! In essence, a very similar or identical draft, which concerns the setting up of a special committee for the control of the state budget. On 15 February, on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, I handed over a draft decision amending the "Constitution of a Special Committee on State Budget Control." We also proposed to change the principle of the creation of a Commission and to set up the composition of the Commission in the future in accordance with the principle of proportionality. Like the previous draft, we discussed this in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 20 April. In the same way, it was proposed that an amended draft be submitted to the first reading. We have reached a compromise between the political groups that, according to the text of the draft, committees will be formed on the basis of the principle of equal representation between the coalition and the opposition. I wouldn't explain it any further, because the previous draft has already been dealt with. If there's any questions, I'd be happy to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U120	And there are questions. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U121	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Here's the question. Now that there is a tie and a stalemate in the committees, obviously these things must now be decided by means of a 'no'. Is it good for such a bright and bright sunrise government when the Commission has to meet? I propose not to put this week on the agenda, because the votes will be divided into 0: 0, and that means that this proposal did not receive support. Is such denial the most reasonable course of action? That's my simple question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U122	No, I'm sure you don't have to decide anything by denying it. Decisions can still be made exactly as they are desired to be made. It is possible to propose both the agenda and the content of the decision in exactly the form that the proposer considers appropriate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U123	Tarmo Kruusimäe again, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U124	Thank you, good vice chairman. I would like to give an example, for example, of the situation where the chairman of the committee proposes that we invite citizens A, B and C from different bodies and the vote is tied. Consequently, the proposal was not supported. How, then, will this proposal work? Can you see someone's in there with the joker? Does the chairman of the committee have more votes or does it take into account, for example, who will vote first and then count as average and have pros and cons? How would you resolve this situation? You're a waitress, and I imagine you've been playing through all these schematics, so it's good for us to take it from the verbatim, so see, that's how we have to solve it, because Mart said and Mart knew.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U125	We certainly haven't played through all the diagrams, and I don't think there need to be any diagrams. As I said in the report on the previous draft, in reality, the special committees have always been formed in the four previous configurations, as far as I know, on the basis of the principle of parity. But due to the number of political groups in the Riigikogu and the number of political groups that formed the coalition there has been mostly a balance. And I also have the knowledge that the special committees mostly strive for consensus in the decision-making process. The chairman of the committee will always be able to try to find consensus, bring things to the table, where there is a common understanding of how to carry out the process and who to invite. I hope that this will continue to be possible and that things will be decided by consensus. Such a situation, where the majority of the committee has belonged to a coalition, is, as far as I know, one of the first times in the long history of the Riigikogu. For the most part, there has been a balance, and that is what we are striving for today. I believe that this composition can do this nicely, as it has been before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U126	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U127	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. But I'm not gonna stop bullying. I must say that the figures are very relevant. Indeed, we can hope and believe, and we want, for there to be as much consensus as possible, but the discrepancy between subjects and understandings cannot necessarily be denied. And that's a very simple question: but what if it's 50:50? How will this be resolved?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U128	If it's 50:50, I don't know if it's a decision. But I understand that both Tarmol and the representative of the Fatherland and the EKRE have a concern that the majority must always have the right to decide, to push their will through. Indeed, this has been the case in the previous coalition. At the beginning of this composition, such a path has been chosen that the coalition must have a majority in the special committees. Our original draft also provided that if, at the beginning of the composition, such a principle had been decided in the Riigikogu and the majority of the special committees were in the hands of the coalition, we would continue to do so. Why should one coalition or one opposition have more or less rights in the same composition than the other? But the current opposition thought it wasn't right. We decided to look into history and we saw it, and mostly balance has been the principle. So we sought a compromise and decided that we would create a balance. We believe that, in this case too, it will be possible to conclude agreements and work on special committees. It does not necessarily have to be an advantage on one side, allowing the road roll method to be decided. We believe more in the possibility of making agreements, perhaps unlike the previous coalition.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U129	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. We can call another waitress. Oudekki Loone, representative of the Constitutional Commission, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U130	[[Remote connection]] Hi! This draft was also submitted on 15 February by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Estonian Central Party. The Constitutional Commission discussed the draft on 23 February and 20 April. I say'discussed this draft', but in fact we discussed the formation of all the special committees in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, because they are essentially the same, together. We did not open this bill separately. Just as with the previous draft, we found on 23 February that this debate must be postponed and a joint part sought between all political parties in the Riigikogu. This is also what the current coalition considered to be very important. This joint section was found on April 20th. At that time, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not open a separate debate and made only decisions on this draft: to put the draft on the plenary agenda on 4 May 2021, to propose the first closure of the draft and, when the first reading is closed, to propose to set the deadline for amendments at 4 p.m. on 7 May 2021, to appoint Mr Oudekki Loone as rapporteur and to submit the draft to the first reading as amended. All decisions were taken by consensus. The Riigikogu Board decided to put the draft on the agenda for today's plenary session on 3 May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U131	Thank you. It is possible to ask questions now, but there are no questions, which is why we thank you. We can also negotiate if that is what we want. That's not what you want. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 336. First reading is complete. The deadline for tabling amendments is 7 May at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U132	Let's go to the next item. Fourth item: Draft decision by the Estonian Reform Party Group and the Estonian Centre Party Group on the amendment of the Riigikogu's decision "Constitution of a Special Anti-Corruption Commission" 337. The rapporteur is Mart Võrguship, a member of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U133	So now the third decision on the special committee. The content is exactly the same as in the previous two. Firstly, we proposed that committees be set up on the basis of the principle of proportionality. Then we found a compromise in the political groups that the new wording could be that a special committee would be set up on the basis of the principle of equal representation of the coalition-opposition. And, just in case, I would like to reiterate that it has been good practice both for the Special Committee on State Budget Control to be set up for the previous draft and for the current draft to be set up for the Special Committee on Anti-Corruption, that the leadership of the committees, or the chair, is in the hands of the opposition. No one plans to change this good practice. This is also stated then and can be recorded in the verbatim. That's all for me, and I'm happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U134	There are questions. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U135	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I do not want to believe now that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is merely monitoring whether this is a breach of the Constitution. That's what we actually have the Chancellor of Justice for. But what's surprising is that it hasn't been discussed. Well, if you don't discuss it, you don't discuss it. But today there are a number of problem areas in this hall. It has also been stressed that you do not really have a complete solution. Are we still very busy with this so-called compromise, which is now born? We can see that the result of this compromise is that a number of problems still arise in the organisation of work. What's the rush? Is this law so necessary now that what is it because it may be an accident at work, but as long as it is accepted? What's the rush? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U136	It is certainly not an accident at work, and it has certainly not been done in haste. When the initial draft was delivered on 15 February and discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 23 February, there was an understanding that there were very strong differences between the political groups. Then it was jointly agreed that we would look for a compromise. And it is still a substantive compromise between the five political groups that this principle of equal representation between the opposition and the coalition is reasonable and enforceable. I don't see much trouble. And I may also explain that if there was concern about members of the Riigikogu who are not members of any political group, the decision of the Riigikogu, which is currently in force, which has set up special committees, states that the committee belongs to one member of each political group. So the new decision will in no way worsen the current decision. Even now, there must be one member from each political group. A non-attached Member must have defined himself somewhere in a political group, and if a political group proposes his appointment, it should also be clear which way that person belongs, whether he is in opposition or in the coalition. I don't think there's really gonna be a big change here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U137	Tarmo Kruusimäe again, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U138	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I hope that perhaps this will be brought to the attention of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. But I got a light on when you said a substantive compromise was reached. What does that really mean? We know that the Prime Minister thinks we have a basically special situation, but the normal situation still continues. How would you interpret the fact that there is a substantive compromise? I would say this again: as long as the interests of the coalition are protected, not a compromise. But what does a substantive compromise mean?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U139	Yeah. I don't know how these coalition interests are protected here. I will also say that since 2003, there has been a balance in the composition of the special committees in the Riigikogu. The opposition and the coalition have had an equal number of representatives on the special committees and this work has been done nicely. This has meant that the opposition must take the coalition into account and the coalition must take the opposition into account. For the first time since 2003, this practice was changed in 2019, i.e. at the beginning of its membership. This was done by the coalition, and in special committees the coalition gained greater rights over the opposition. Now, on the initiative of the current coalition, we have reached a result where we have reached a substantive agreement on all the political groups of the Riigikogu. The substantive agreement means that we understand this amendment in the same way, we understand how to act in the future, and we agree with it. And this agreement is that committees are formed on the basis of the principle of equal representation between the coalition and the opposition. Perhaps, in my opinion, we too often do not have a consensus or a common understanding of either draft laws or decisions in this Chamber. But in the case of these three draft decisions, I do have the feeling that there is a common understanding. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also has support for this amended draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U140	Thank you. No further questions. Please speak with Oudekki Loone, representative of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U141	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft has also been on the agenda of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs twice, on 23 February and 20 April. As I said before, we discussed the special committees in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in basically the same way, because they must be resolved in the same way. On 23 February, we found that this bill still needs a debate, because it is very important to us that all parties represented in the Riigikogu agree with the principle of setting up special committees and the principle of working, so that we can be 'one page'. We have therefore postponed the debate so that we can talk about it among ourselves. These talks reached a successful conclusion in April. On 20 April, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we also took decisions on this draft, and the debate on the substance was not opened separately. It was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 4 May, to propose that the first reading of the draft be closed, to propose a deadline of 7 May at 4 p.m. for amendments, to appoint Oudekki Loone, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as rapporteur and to submit the draft to the first reading as amended. All these decisions were taken by consensus. The Riigikogu Board decided to put the draft on the agenda of the Riigikogu today, 3 May, for the sake of a more reasonable distribution of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U142	Thank you. It is also possible to ask questions to Oudekki Loone, but there seem to be no questions. Thank you, Oudekki! The commission's proposal is in draft 337... I'm sorry! I ran over the negotiations. It's possible to negotiate. That's not what I'm interested in right now. So let's move on to what I started off with. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 337. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline of 7 May at 4 p.m. for the submission of amendments. That concludes this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U143	Let's go to agenda number five. We've come to an inquiry. The first to take place are the members of the Riigikogu Jaak Valge, Kert Kingo, Merry Aarti, Rene Koka, Helle-Moonika Helme, Henn Põlliasa, Alar Laneman, Reuben Kaalepi, Anti Polandmets, Paul Puustusmaa, Riho Breiveli, Siim Pohlak and Peeter Ernitsa on 11 March 2021 about the opening of the exhibition "Aesthetics of Diversity" (No 60). A member of the Riigikogu, Jaak Valge, has the floor as a representative of the heirs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U144	Hello! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable technical staff! This is an inquiry by the members of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia to the Minister of Culture of the Republic of Estonia and it is presented in connection with the opening exhibition "Aesthetics of Diversity" at Kumu Art Museum on 17 February. Its organisers-curators have begun to change the names given to and historically fixed on the works of art. In our opinion, changing the names of works of art is not appropriate for the cultural space of a free democratic Estonia and, in fact, is not inherent in the cultural space of any free society. In addition, in Estonia, the imitation of such foreign and over-ideologized campaigns is closely likened to the repressive intervention in artistic life carried out by the occupying authorities of their own time. In this regard, we have five questions for the Minister of Culture. I am not going to read them out to save time, but I am going to limit myself to a few short or general comments. In principle, yes, in the case of an exhibition, some such provocative decision is not a disaster in itself, especially in a society where we live and where some art people are willing to take all kinds of extravagants to make a name for themselves. However, this case still attracts attention and is a cause of concern because it is the first shoots of the so-called withdrawal culture in Estonia. The curator of the exhibition, Bart Pushaw, who defended his doctorate at Maryland University in the United States, confirms that Estonia is among the pioneers of renaming art works in Europe. I quote: "... because such a process has not even begun in many countries." Indeed, this withdrawal culture comes from the United States and, more precisely, reflects the internal conflict in the United States, which we have very little to do with. A culture of annulment actually takes a step forward from a left-liberal concept of political correctness that does not allow a certain word to be spoken, at which point such a deplorable speech is not in trouble with the law. A culture of cancellation is a leverage of political correctness aimed at a larger number of individuals, goes beyond the past and the consequences have been more severe at the time. A culture of cancellation should be unacceptable to us for two reasons. Firstly, it is not democratic. The fate of the subject is actually determined by an aggressive, vocal minority, but we do not know the attitude of the majority as a general rule. However, we do know, for example, that last summer, when there was such a culmination in the removal of monuments in the United States, 74% of the citizens of the United States did not support the removal of these statues. There are laws for condemnation in a democratic country, and if the laws in force are lagging behind, they must be amended, but they must be adapted to the democratic state. Secondly, in a culture of annulment, the principle that offences which were not punishable at the time the act was committed cannot be condemned is often a sin. If we do not follow this principle, we could condemn generations immediately. And thirdly, what is a painful question for me personally is this sinning against history, which, moreover, today does not make it any better. If there's something in history that doesn't match our values, we need to analyze it, not hide it. And I now admit that you, Madam Minister, also admit that the provocation of this exhibition has gone too far, which I hope you will do, that you yourself, as a minister, cannot bear any particular responsibility for these renamings or for this culture of cancellation. But we do want to know your attitude. So that's what we're worried about right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U145	Anneli Ott, Minister of Culture, will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U146	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable questioners! Ladies and gentlemen, Let me first read these questions. Or, I mean, I'm going to read the question first, and then I'm going to answer the question right now. The first question: "Will the new names attributed to the works proposed by the three curators (in addition to the original names) continue to apply to these works from now on? " I might explain more broadly what kind of exhibition we are talking about. The exhibition is called "The Aesthetics of Diversity" and it is such a temporary project space in Kumu's new permanent exhibition "Identity Landscapes." Estonian art 1700-1945.' I would point out that this is such a small angle. And I'll tell you right away that I haven't been there yet, just on a web tour, but I'm sure you've been interested and I'll visit it whenever I can. But it's a project space where you can usually do such intriguing exhibitions. And this is the experimental surface where you can play through the sub-topics of art history and ask topical questions. What I am saying here is that, as a minister, I have been asked these questions, it is probably a matter of interest in society, and it has played a role in this respect. Art historian Bart Pushaw, who curates this "Aesthetics of Diversity," deals with racial stereotypes and colonial topics in Estonian early 20th century art. The response that has arisen shows that we really need this debate. And in fact, this debate is taking place at world museums in general, including the Estonian National Committee of the International Council of Museums. Now, the names of these works of art, especially in this older art, are changing in time. It is not the case here that if this name is changed for this exhibition, then it will remain so, the previous ones will disappear, and it will now be the right one, but this genesis will be preserved. In fact, all exhibitions, works of art with different names in this information system are also preserved. So there's a loss of information in this part of the story that doesn't happen. This exhibition actually includes a very small selection of Estonian art, and here specific works are proposed by the curator, and neutral titles remain in the databases alongside the previous title. It's confirmed. That would be my answer to the first question. The second question: Do you, as Minister of Culture, consider it possible to do so? cultural commissar activities, essentially censorship on Estonian art heritage? " I have to say that since there really is a project space that is intended for experimental surfaces, it is certainly not such a general cultural space issue, but we can treat this exhibition as a project exhibition. I'm sure it's not censorship. In fact, this exhibition has highlighted works that the museum has not previously exhibited and published, and the curator has pointed out and demonstrated the possibility of naming these works in various ways. I might add to this that there are actually works that do not have the artist's name directly. I'm not an expert on this, but I trust specialists in the field who have explained it. The curators have found these appropriate titles, not only for this exhibition, but also in the past. The third question: Is and how is the authorship of works of art protected by such activities, the copyrights of artists, which are now under both national and international legal supervision? " Most of the titles of older works of art, as I said, are not written, i.e. it is not a declaration of the author's will, but it is the result of museums or a museological process. And in case the artist has not written a title on the work, there may also be such a thing, for example in the case of graphics, that the same [piece] images have different names. Anyone who wants to know more about it will have more substantial writings on Kumu's web site. The titles also state that they are not always an integral part of a work of art, but, above all, they are such a conventional construction, especially between the curator of this exhibition and the catalogue designer. Question 4: "Do we need to understand the strong, imported pressure of the KUMU exhibition to review history as a substantive policy of the Ministry of Culture and the current government? If so, how is it consistent with the constitutional imperative to ensure the preservation of Estonian nation, language and culture throughout the ages? " Here I can say that it is certainly not a ministry of culture or government policy. It is not the government that actually organises this exhibition and controls or monitors which exhibitions are presented in particular, for example, by Kumus. It's still a job between this institution and the curator. And really, I would also say here that you have to trust the specialists in the field who are watching it. The Ministry of Culture certainly has no reason to tell museums what kind of exhibition can and cannot be held. I think that from the era we come from, we have these experiences in this regard. We consider it important to have the freedom to organise exhibitions and to talk about the various topics that address society. And if, in history or, let's say, within a certain period of time, the actual background of a work of art has simply been scientifically proven, the name of such a vague nature [instead] may also be [the work] given more specifically either the name of the person or the more precise explanation of what it is. But it's not directly related to some kind of government policy or censorship. "As a minister, what steps do you consider it possible to take to calm the cultural public in Estonia and prevent cynical political-corrective cancellation-self-actions? " Good questioners, I'm sure we don't have to worry here about politically correcting cancellations and self - action. We are talking, as I began, about a temporary experimental exhibition where the curator has presented his vision. Of course, every visitor can evaluate it and draw their own conclusions from it. But here, more broadly, this political desire to change the names of works of art is certainly not behind it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U147	Thank you. There are also questions for the rapporteur. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U148	[[Remote connection]] Thank you! I don't know what this has happened now, but I don't have a picture in front of me right now. Can you hear my voice?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U149	We hear you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U150	Oh, hey, hey, hey, it's on TV. Good waitress, what I'm trying to say is that someone else thinks that there shouldn't be such a name or something isn't news at all. Let me remind you that the name of the Dutch band Disneyland After Dark forbade Disneyland, and now it's D.A.D., but everyone knows it's because they're talking about a story. It means the memory stays. At the same time, S.O.D., which was short for Speak English or Die, did not snap against England, and that name still remained. I think the curator here has skilfully used the fact that he's just making noise. What is your opinion if everyone else, like everyone else, would like to be successful so that they can be reflected, isn't this not about promoting stupidity?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U151	Thank you. As I said in answering my questions, it is certainly not the Ministry of Culture who will apply censorship to exhibitions or see what kind of exhibition one or the other museum is planning. I'm sure there are people who are qualified for this. And if these exhibitions do not comply with the laws in force in Estonia, then we have institutions that do this, but this is not the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U152	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U153	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, Aro Velmet, the importer of new Marxist ideas, who defended the renaming of art works, has claimed that the fact that Estonians bear no responsibility for colonialism is a myth. The Finnish Left Liberals have found that Finns are guilty of colonialism because the tar produced in Finland was also used to tar the ships used to transport slaves from Africa to America. Do you think that Estonia and Estonians also bear the blame for colonialism?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U154	Thank you for that question. Today, as Minister of Culture, I came here to answer the question about the temporary exhibition "Aesthetics of Diversity" in Kum and the exposition of the works selected by the curator and changing their names. So, unfortunately, I cannot respond to other historical approaches here today.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U155	I would like to draw the attention of the ambassadors to the fact that only one question can be asked in the case of an inquiry. Next, Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U156	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. My question is a little bit of a push from the last one. Maybe we could take this a little bit as a joke for now, but maybe not. Looking at these trends in our behavior and what we're all taking with us and where we're going, it seems to me right now that we're bouncing and nodding somewhere, maybe soon we won't be able to walk with our backs straight. But that's the question I'm asking. I have quite a few art books at home and there are both Wiiralt's Negroheads, Laikmaa's "Abesinian" and Evald Okas's "Neger Dancing Wonder." If we go on like this, can I pass these books on to my offspring, or should I put them away or stick them in somewhere? It may seem funny right now, but looking at these trends, I have a serious problem. Thank you very much for the explanation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U157	Thank you for that question. I don't know how to make comments about trends or perceptions here, and certainly history discussions are always very exciting and necessary in society. In the context of this exhibition, however, we are talking, as I have said before, about an experimental project where the curator shows his vision of how these racial and colonial topics have been presented in the art of the early 20th century in Estonia. And here, as I emphasised, it is certainly [it] not the Ministry of Culture or, more generally, society's desire to change the names of works of art or to apply any censorship.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U158	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U159	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Minister. I come from high art on a little simpler paths, but the subject still has something to do with it, so I hope you'll respond. For family reasons, I have recently quite often read Pippi Longsuka's book, which has become one of the greatest subjects of censorship in Europe. From there they censored the Negro king, the Negro children, and who lived there on Kurrunurruvutis Island. Perhaps you are also going to say that you do not want to comment on it, it is not related to the subject, but answer at least as a person, as Anneli Ott, who thinks of such censorship, where children's books and works that have been in circulation for decades or long periods of time will be reduced and corrected in this way. Should this also be done in Estonia or should it not be done? If you don't want to answer as a minister, maybe you'll at least answer as a person. Do you think it is possible to expect such censorship in Estonia, for example, in the case of the same Pippi Longstocking book?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U160	Thank you. I will first say, as I have said before, that, as Minister of Culture, in the Ministry of Culture, in the government, we do not have such subjects, there are no such wishes. And if I answer now Anneli Otina, as you requested, I say that we have a constitution in Estonia, and the Constitution says that there is no censorship, and I think it is very right that we have done so to date. The Constitution gives us legal space for this, so I think it's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U161	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U162	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! We know that all such questions are about values, how people feel, how to say, about the work of others, and the art that has already been produced, as well as the works of sound. But I'd like to know if you'd say your personal position. You've been talking about what the Ministry of Culture thinks, and that's all the way to say it, not the position of the government or the Ministry of Culture. But what about your personal position, do you personally support such activities or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U163	Thank you for that question. When we take this particular exhibition, I actually said at the beginning that I have not been there directly, I have read reviews and so-called web tour, but I have not been there, but I will definitely do so. But I think that when we talk about the vision of this curator, it must be taken to mean that the person who is from outside Estonia presented his vision and his background and understanding are also reflected there. The extent to which there is now such pain or sensitivity in the topics of how Estonian artists have expressed themselves at this point in time, we cannot go back to that place, and we do not finally know what they were thinking and wanted to convey to society. We can interpret it on the basis of our experience. But I think that such differences must not be feared and can be seen and interpreted. In general, however, Estonian culture is very important, and the Constitution also tells us that. That's exactly what it says there's no censorship. So I think we're good at that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U164	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U165	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In the inquiry, there is such an interesting statement that the organisers have started to change the names of the authors of the works stored in the museum's storage facilities, which are historically fixed on them. For me, this issue is very strange, because the copyright law that we have in force provides a specific right for the author, i.e. protection of copyright for the results of his work. And § 12, personal rights, states nicely that the author may make himself or allow other persons to make any changes in the work themselves, in his title or in the designation of the author's name. It's a copyright nobody's taken away. I ask you: please tell me the provision of the law that allows it to be done. And if you do not find this provision, will you instruct the Patent Office, which supervises the state, to investigate and deal with this infringement?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U166	Thank you. As I have already told you here, there has actually been no change in the name of a work of art. Among those that have been titled by different exhibitions with different names are works of art to which the author himself has not actually named. So this certainly cannot be clearly stated that there is always copyright, but the artists have given their work to so-called museums, who then have named these works. We are really talking here about authors who have left this world many years ago. And as I pointed out here before, for a number of works, perhaps during history or during this period, research has emerged [new information], we have learned what the situation is, and we can put another name aside there. But that doesn't mean that the original name disappears. All these names are still in the museum register and can be interpreted differently during different periods. In the context of this particular exhibition, as I have also mentioned, it is the curator's vision of these works and his interpretation. But this does not mean that the names of these works of art will be changed from time indefinite to time indefinite, but that the names given to these works of art within this exhibition will be preserved in the historical archives. But it's in the context of this exhibition that's been brought up there to create this discussion in society.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U167	Kalle Grünthal has a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U168	Thank you, Mr President. I don't understand what's going on in this hall today. The performers of the Centre Party are unable to answer very specific questions. Has anything happened to them here in a week off that I can't get a second answer to my question? Is this thing allowed by the rules of the house and the rules of procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U169	According to the rules of procedure and the rules of procedure, the question should be answered. I don't know how anyone understands or how anyone understands this question, I can't get involved here. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U170	[[Remote connection]] Look, good Anneli, here you are trying to mislead us a little bit. Because the first question that arises immediately on those words of yours that the title has not been changed, that it is within an art exhibition, I wonder how the Ministry intends to protect word and copyright. Because if we take the same curator, Bart Pushaw," who came here to curate this exhibition. He said that he did this because he, while studying at the University of Chicago, saw this awful segregation close by and wanted to bring this resulting emotion to Estonia, because he was very excited by the idea of how Estonian art is still linked to local slavery and the colonial era. This is a serious distortion of culture. And I would ask you this once again: whether it was any of the authors or descendants of the authors, whether it was Andrus Johan's, whether these relatives were contacted if they were going to change the titles, change the names, or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U171	Thank you for that question. Yes, as you yourself have already mentioned, a good questioner, the curator has come to Estonia to reflect these topics in Estonian art by Estonian artists at the beginning of the 20th century [Imagination]. And the vision that he has, as I said in one reply, is really different from his own experience of the Estonian society's experience, certainly his interpretation of these paintings, these works. These original titles have survived and, in this sense, we have not suffered like in this case. Here, the curator has simply proposed his own vision, which is also 'physically' on the surface of a museum for which such experimentation exhibitions are intended. In fact, the message to society is that it is an experiment is the vision of someone next to it who presents it to us through our early 20th century art. Of course, it is for the Estonian society to assess whether this vision is consistent with ours, whether we find any exciting topic for ourselves and how our artists could actually try to present their own creation. These [visions] may be completely different, but this does not mean that someone has suffered or been put at risk here, but that is the vision of one curator that has been presented to us. Everyone will be able to assess very accurately the possibility that someone has been harmed there by visiting this exhibition today. I can assure you that there is no so-called victim at this moment, and these people have been away from us for very, very long, very long years.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U172	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U173	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! My question is: is this so-called experimental exhibition the first poorly hidden step in Estonia on the road that we will now systematically rename the titles and names of works, replace the characters of plays and books and change the texts of films, books and songs?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U174	Thank you. I have already answered this question earlier and said that neither the Ministry of Culture nor the Government has such intention. Indeed, this is an experimental presentation in one of these exhibitions and this is not a broader trend in Estonian society.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U175	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U176	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I have to admit, I feel sorry for you. You're stubbornly trying to talk black to white, or vice versa, talking white to black, depends on the angle we look at. In essence, you admit that we have the first example of a culture of withdrawal imported from the West. And then you say that the government has no intention of cultivating a culture of cancellation in Estonia. At the same time, you are stubbornly defending the right to cultivate a culture of cancellation in Estonia. Don't you think that's a controversial message you're sending us?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U177	Thank you. I think I've been pretty clear in my messages here, and I can't tell you how to interpret it, but there are certainly different ways to do it. I will say once again that, given the nature of our history, where we come from, yes, perhaps I personally did not feel it so much at this moment, but who is more, who is less, it is certainly important that we do not have such censorship in art, where the Ministry of Culture intervenes in what kind of exhibition can be organised and which is not. If this activity goes outside the scope of the law, if it becomes dangerous to society, if it does not comply with the law, then it is not the Ministry of Culture, it is the other institutions in Estonia that then carry out these activities. And, of course, I believe they do it well.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U178	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U179	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. You justified the renaming of art in Kumus. The same barbarities have hit other areas of the world, such as literature. The bookworm is sold in 1931 by Carl van Vechten's novel Negroes in Heaven. Its introduction says that "Negro Heaven" is the best work of a writer and the best novel of all Negro life, be it white or niggers themselves. The author won't let niggers differ from whites and let them lie on the same level as other races. I'm not gonna find anything bad here. The word "nigger" has never had a negative meaning in Estonia, although it is being forced upon us. If libraries were to also rename literary works, would you justify it, and what laws are in harmony with the renaming of foreign works of art?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U180	Thank you. The tonality of this question may have been slightly different from the subject we are talking about. In fact, the names of these current works of art have not been cancelled, but, as I mentioned, the curator presents his own vision from his own experience. These works are out and their original titles are preserved. Because of this experimental exhibition in Kumu's small space, no original name has been taken away from any work of art, but they are also fully preserved and these works are out. So you can't bring this interpretation here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U181	Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U182	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In such cases, it is obvious that it is certain that all these things will take place under the precepts from Brussels or under the impetus. Is it known whether Kumu or the Minister of Culture or the Estonian State has received any recognition from Brussels for this exhibition and this work? Or has there been any feedback from any social groups in Estonia and a positive mood for the fact that this exhibition has been organised in this way?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U183	Thank you for that question. Since this has been a pretty tight time, I can't tell you how big the "critical mass" has actually come to visit this experimental exhibition and get to know it either on the web tour or on the spot. So I can't tell you that. But surely our curators have the freedom to create, and we all have the freedom to judge, to evaluate works as well. What have the international or Estonian recognitions been directly? I guess these recognitions come when they come, maybe at the end of this show. But right now I have to ask the Ministry for more details, so we can answer you in writing if they have already been done today. But as we see here today on the basis of today's questions, the subject is about society and these issues need to be discussed. So there's already some feedback on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U184	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U185	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. In our recent social debates, as well as in some of the drafts circulating in the Riigikogu, there is an idea of such sneaking censorship or attempt to censor. Here, for example, is the Media Service Act, which seeks to give some people the right to decide what is right for society and what can be said and what cannot be said. Should we also set up a working group at the Ministry of Culture to ensure that freedom of expression and creativity are not censored in the field of culture? What are you going to do to avoid such censorship? Lately, it is very popular to create all kinds of working groups that are watching, because otherwise it might happen that at some point we will have the sort of thing we have been talking about here as the norm. It seems forcefully that such "experimental curators" are sneaky mind-makers, and that is not quite the way we are going.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U186	Thank you. I think that's a very good problem statement and a question. As I have already mentioned, it is certainly important that our museums are free to organise their exhibitions, to invite various curators to do these exhibitions. It is certainly important to maintain the creative freedom of curators. I fully agree that creating censorship by the Ministry of Culture would not be right. And if there are activities that are in trouble with the law through the transmission of exhibitions or messages, then it is definitely the respective institutions in Estonia who are watching and paying attention to it. But I fully agree with you that there should be no such censorship by the Ministry of Culture, and there is no such censorship, that is not what the Ministry of Culture is doing today, exactly the same for this exhibition.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U187	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U188	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Anneli! My question concerns Ants Laikmaa's painting "Abese." Just an example. Abyssinia is known to be the historical name of Ethiopia, just as Persia is the historical name of Iran. I cannot speak on behalf of Ants Laikmaa, of course, but I assume that when he did this painting in 1903 he was inspired by the Italian-Abessinian war in 1896 where the Abessinians unexaggerated heroically struck back Italy's attempt to conquer this country. And in this war, no doubt like me, so was Ants Laikmaa, supposedly by the Abésinians. I'm asking you what it's worth to change the name of this painting. What's the point?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U189	Thank you. This is where we talk about the so-called curator's freedom of creation and [freedom] to see the subject in other ways. Certainly in time, as the good questioner said, it is possible to interpret very differently from what the artist has done. We can guess what he meant by that. For example, if we take the broad picture of whether it is, I don't know, a Soviet athlete or an employee or a worker, but we know who it is today, then maybe it's interesting to show that side. At that point, he was anonymous, but today maybe you can also bring here an additional and more specific title that speaks directly of a specific person, as in your example. As a minister, I really cannot comment specifically on the individual choices of the curator, maybe I have to turn to him, but when we talk about a broad context, I repeat that the Ministry of Culture does not seek and do not apply to the freedom of creation of curators of censorship.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U190	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U191	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I would remind you that the curator is an official, not a creative man. But the curators have claimed that the purpose of this exhibition was to change the narrative so far, according to which we must take Estonian history back to Estonians. According to these curators, sticking to it is unwise, for we are living in a multicultural globalized world today. Isn't that a little hypocritical? For example, let's look eastwards, if Putin has Russian history rewritten, then we understand, don't we? We don't like it. But do you think rewriting history on the basis of current mainstream ideology makes sense in art life?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U192	First of all, thank you for this question. Now, in the case of a curator, I'd disagree here. However, the curator is not an official. In this case, it is the freelance cooperation partner of the museum who did this exhibition. I would still stick to the view that there must be the possibility of presenting such a different view in Estonian society. We should not create censorships where we do not allow different views in society to open up. The way we interpret it more widely is the social response. But creating censorship on the basis of our history experience is certainly what we do not want to return to, and here we should remind ourselves a little bit in this discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U193	There are no further questions for the Minister. Thank you. Let's open negotiations, and the first to speak is Jaak White. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U194	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Dear listeners, Honourable technical personnel! Unfortunately, we did not just get very specific answers here, but thank the Minister for this event. It is not really about the loss of information, it is about renaming works of art. If the original name of a work of art remains only in the database but is not reflected in the exhibition, it is still the same as the creation of a special fund during the Soviet era. And second of all, I haven't really counted it as an experiment. On the contrary, this curator has said in his interview that we are pioneers for the whole of Europe. Now, with little specific answers, I have no choice but to give a speech on behalf of the interviewers. And since I have not much else to relate to, I am talking about the subject in the context of Estonian history and culture. As has already been said here, one of the curators of the exhibition stresses that the purpose of the exhibition is to reshape the image of the past. As a historian, I dare say again that the image of the past should be based on historical studies based on the correct methodology, and designing history according to the needs of today means reducing history to an ideology. Especially in circumstances, I would point out, Madam Minister, where there are still very few tools to study Estonian national sciences, including history. During the previous government, some attempts were made to change the situation and a research and development programme had been launched in the Ministry of Culture to finance national culture and science. The system for allocating this money was designed in detail and coordinated with the Humanities and Social Sciences Department of the Estonian Academy of Sciences. But now I understand that the new government has not considered this necessary. This situation is particularly grotesque. Instead of exploring Estonia's history, we are somehow trying to twist it into other prescripted frames. Another curator of the exhibition, Bart Pushaw, confirms that renaming works of art is a very progressive step. Using the concept of progressivity means that the content of a future society, or at least the direction of change in gender, is unambiguously known, because how else can we call one or another change progressive if we do not know that direction or goal? This is, in fact, a Marxist way of thinking, which allows the horizon to deviate from the democratic choice of citizens in the name of a known bright future. They say it's progressive and everything you can still choose here. And I don't know if the authoritarian roots of this thinking are being recognised, I don't know what to say, it's like a question of my own. In any case, it is highly doubtful whether in many countries, which the curator claims to be coming after Estonia, if Estonia is at the forefront, such a process will even begin. And when it starts, is it going to start, and is the end result of this today's cancellation culture still very unknown? I daresay in five years' time today's activists will be ashamed to remember that. In any case, Estonia has no internal conflict like the United States, which is the birthplace of the cancellation culture. According to Bart Pushaw, the main reason for renaming Estonian artists' works is to show respect for black people. Aro Velmet, a doctorate at the University of New York, finds that the claim that we are not responsible for colonialism is a myth. He points out that the statues exhibited at the exhibition from Africa were donated to the Estonian National Museum by doctors who participated in the French colonial mission and thus were also serving in Belgium. Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U195	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U196	He believes that Estonia still has links to colonialism today because we participate in French missions in Africa and participated in the US invasion of Iraq. Well, as a doctor to help the Africans, even if it is done in cooperation with the colonial authorities, we should not be held responsible for colonialism. This is an even more caricature argument than the slave ship's tar that was mentioned here. And participating in the missions of Estonian soldiers is a completely different subject, which probably requires serious discussion, but in a different context. Anyway, considering participating in missions as a negative phenomenon of colonialism, there is no way to compensate for this by correcting our past. Respect for the blacks that Pushaw demands can be shown in many ways. It is probably also a demonstration of respect to show clearly that Estonia has nothing to do with colonialism, or that the word 'nigger' has no negative meaning here. However, renaming works shows a total lack of respect for Estonian artists, Estonian history, culture and identity. Another argument has been that there have been many renamings and removals of monuments in Estonia. But I would like to remind you again that the issue has never been to cancel or re-evaluate our own cultural heritage and history, freely created by Estonian society. In this sense, we have no resemblance to the causes of the United States' withdrawal culture. But what we're seeing now is the first shoots we're seeing, that's the cancellation of our own cultural heritage. It can also be considered a cultural occupation, actually the same colonialism against which the curators of the exhibition claim to be fighting, that is, culturalism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U197	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U198	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good people, who now continue to follow our trial and then look at what it is now or what it is! Here it seems that on one side there is the Ministry of Culture, who says that the most important is the self-realization of the curator and his vision, and on the other side there is perhaps the EKRE, who sees that the foundations of our art and culture are being attacked, and this is quite arbitrary. But I see it's just a provocation, and that's a provocation. The simplest form of provocation to sell. The curator can say, "I created a discussion. " And then we say that the curator has the right to do so. Yes, Ken Saan, for example, also made a film about Mannerheim in Finland, which produced a great deal of discussion. But when they said how many of these Romeoids and Juliets have been made like this, where all the actors are Negroes, it's not like a discussion at this point. It all depends on how we look. We don't want to go back there, but I'm just reminding you that in 1982 there were three bands performing in the Kreks Culture Palace: the Illegal Bureau, the Bloody Sunday and the Moon Cleaning, and they were found not to be good names. It was then that the bands of the Bureau, Purification and Sunday would appear. I didn't know what the event was or what it was. That the name is somewhere in the archives, but I've already seen it in my short time, where the information in the archives has remained archaic. How the beautiful Estonian language that we enjoy today may have been killed in refugee literature, but what we were actually producing here. That's the joke that a man goes to a bookstore and asks you if you have a Vildet. No, but we have Mats Traati. It's not like I'm so ugly that I'm coming to the bookstore to buy wire. Very many adjectives were eliminated, simply no longer used, and they have fallen out of use. So our language became poorer, and then, when we sometimes remember those words, they say, oh, it's so archaic. But it's actually just our thing. Now this saying that we may be able to mimic our own direction, then I have the first thing that comes to mind, the monument of the impotent stands on Maarjamäe, right? Everyone knows, but it's like folklore. But at this point in time, coming out of society [with something] that would cause a problem, I don't want to make any very provocative points here, because there are followers to every stupidity, and obviously the same curator would go to other directors' events to tell you how to do the right art so that it gets to every medium. Just a little thought. There used to be a "Mutionu party" in Pikri, and then it was analyzed. "Lived in the woods mutionu." Interestingly, all Soviet people actually live in cities. But why is he in the woods? Ah, a work reprieve, an antisocial. "In the middle of a tree, young, old. " What do you mean? The forest isn't bred that it's young or old. "Called up guests" is obviously some kind of drink going on out there. "Crabs and featheries." Well, hairy, we know the cafe for Moscow, they're hevikas and punks, and feathered, well, birds, they're prostitutes. And that's how the whole thing was really patched up. We can also say that in what sense is the Estonian folk talk "Kavall-Ants and the Old Pagan." Firstly, there must be no age discrimination, i.e. no old one, is "Kavall-Ants and the heathen." Whoa, whoa, whoa, what do you mean, clever? Aren't the others clever? Let's get it off! It's "Ants and Hell." But there is, in fact, freedom of religion in Estonia. Why should we... "Ants and"! "Ants and" is the book that talks about it. We cannot accept provocations, which are simply to hit the bell and just get the media's attention. That is what we would like to draw the Minister's attention to. And it hurts our sense of justice to go to our so-called roots, to the works that we have known. Now the Estonian people are just saying: "Are you out of your mind? " Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U199	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U200	Good President! Minister, thank you very much. Colleagues, all of you disguised somewhere, behind the mask, behind the screen! I was wondering where I was going to start, and I had two beginnings. I'm gonna use them both. The first was to quote the futuristic poet Vladimir Majakovsky, who is certainly forgotten to the generations of today, replacing one word in his immortality poem. His poem begins: you'd be crushed as a wolf, bureaucratism. I'll change the word "bürokratism" and say, you'll be crushed as a wolf, liberalism. Because liberalism has brought total madness to the Western cultural space, one of the worst ways of which is to chew yourself in the form of an annulment culture. It's eating itself, it's cancer. The second beginning was to recall the distant repressive Soviet times when I was young. And when the ensemble Ruja came to the stage, and the late Urmas Alender sang: for a nigger must throw shoes and newspapers. So what do we do now? Let's cancel it, the word "nigger" is inside, it's racism, it's a nightmare. In fact, this song was aimed specifically at condemning racism. That's the cancer. The cancer doesn't ask where he's going to transfer to what kind of vital organ he's going to transfer to. Whether he finally reaches the brain or gets into his liver or gets into his stomach, cancer kills. I suggest, on several occasions, that in various dispute forums, Arnold Toynbee's history essay collection, which was published in Estonian, should be read in two sets of articles, two essays: the breakage of civilizations and the breakage of cultures, are crucial to us at this point in time. He's in there giving an exact diagnosis of what's going on right now. How cultures destroy themselves as cancer. We are at the beginning of this phase of destruction, and now liberalism brings this cancer to Estonia as well. The reasoning that these people are dead and that is why these works can be handled, as it seems more reasonable to us today, is no reason. That's not the reason that a man is dead, he can't defend himself anymore, and we can taunt his body and his creation. It's unethical! I totally agree with Tarmo, who said it was a provocation. This is obviously a provocation, but the background and justification for this provocation is the very liberalism of the cancer that is now killing the European cultural space. This is the first swallow. It's kind of a test. Is it gonna work or isn't gonna work? How much resistance do you have? How serious is this opposition, what level of resistance is it? Is this opposition somehow irritating and exciting for the whole nation, or is it just gonna stay in this hall, or is it gonna be for some freak circles? This is a test, this provocation is a test to see if the Ministry of Culture with its bureaucrats can give it a blessing and say that so, but next we'll go and tear down the statue of Barclay de Tolly in the heart of Tartu because he served the tsaristic regime, he was an in-service representative, he was a military man, he died during his campaigns... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U201	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U202	... dozens and tens of thousands of people were looted on farms, cities, whatever. Repressor promoter, initiator of repression destroy! There's always a reason. Stalin was right: give me only a man, we'll find an article. The exact same is true of the cancellation culture. Give us the one to cancel, to trample the porn, to tear out of history, and we'll find a reason. This is a road to hell paved with good intentions just by some apparently well-meaning, but by some apparently very evil intentions. We can quite confidently say in this Chamber that the Conservative People's Party of Estonia will, in any case, raise the fight against such a culture of cancellation. What's going on in America is their history, and they have to sort it out. We have no need to import it into Estonia and make a mockery of the memories of our dead cultural characters, provocative, neo-Marxist, criminal, our national history. I would like to appeal to the Minister: talk to your office and talk to the authorities under your authority so that they do not continue with such matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U203	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U204	Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! I will tell you about one vital case and then another vital case [on the subject] that is being dealt with here today. Tell me the difference between them. It's 1986, Paide's restaurant is full of people, because there's gonna be a party. It's a great night. Margus Lepa's in charge of the evening. Of course, Margus Lepa does this very well, and he presents such a well - known song: "Who lives in the woods? That's where the elf lives. What's the elf doing? He cooks bread. " So far, everything is normal, everything is authoritarian. And then Margus Lepa's own creation goes on: "But where did he get the flour? I guess there's a leftover. But how did he get it? Yeah, well, I guess a friend of mine brought the driver. Where did he get the gas? I guess there's a leftover. " In principle, this example is where copyright was used for one - time and entertainment purposes. This did not lead to any change in the content and meaning of this song. Another example of life right here. Some curators have started to change the names of the authors of art works stored in museum storages, which are historically fixed. Can we compare these two things, Minister? I don't think I can. One is what is used as creative inspiration. The second is what will be put to permanent survival. I asked you a question. How do we guarantee under law the personal rights of authors who have the right to change and use the title, content and all other things of their work? You didn't answer my question. In the Republic of Estonia, do we no longer have laws and allow some curators to decide to do whatever they want? I don't think I can. Dear Minister, Copyright is controlled by the Patent Office. Take your hand and make an order [to examine] whether they are doing the right thing or doing the wrong thing. This production, which is coming and which Mart Helme is talking about excellently, is the result of the West, where our thinking, our nature, our behaviour are being beaten down. We are the Republic of Estonia, we are an independent state. And the word "nigger," I don't see anything wrong with it. Let's remind you of the movie "Brat" "Brat 1" was probably, yes, it says very well: Russian is Russian, Chinese is Chinese, nigger is black. It's a classification that's been going on for centuries, and there's nothing wrong with the word "nigger" that we're going to put artwork the other way. But my earnest request to you, Minister: deal with this issue, so that our spiritual estate remains as it has been for decades to come. It's your duty now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U205	Thank you. The Minister may also have an address. No, I don't. This item is closed. We have two more questions ahead of us, but before we go to them, I'll take a four-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U206	Ladies and gentlemen, Let's get back to work. We also had a little technical problem here. Please, let's do the presence check! Then when the presence check is done and no one gets in, please let us know. Incoming check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U207	At the moment, 16 people have registered to be present and there has not been a protest that they have not been able to register as present, so let's move on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U208	Agenda item 6 is a request for an inclusive study model submitted on 24 March by Helle-Moonika Helme and Jaak Valge, members of the Riigikogu (No 63). Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U209	Thank you, President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen in this Chamber and the Minister behind the screen, I understand. As has been said, members of the EKRE Group, Helle-Moonika Helme and Jaak Valge, presented on 24 March, the Minister of Education and Science, Liina Kersna, an inquiry into an inclusive teaching model. In an inquiry, we want answers on the views of the Ministry of Education and Research on how to tackle inclusive education. The education that has long shaped Estonian education life, but which has already caused deep problems, has shown certain signs of living. At the same time, we are facing a crisis of teacher follow-up. There was also a debate on a crucial national issue here in the Riigikogu last autumn. Now we want to know how seriously the Ministry is taking this issue and whether the Ministry sees the cause-effect relationship between inclusive education and teacher burn-out and leaving school. The debate on teacher follow-up in the autumn also made it clear that teachers do not have a basic career model. We want to know what changes the Ministry of Education and Research is planning. Teachers' associations have also repeatedly indicated that the Ministry of Education and Research does not apply good practices on inclusion. Let us ask what further action the Ministry of Education and Research will take in this area. As a minister, do you see that the Ministry of Education and Research should show a more open mind and broader hearing skills here? Thank you for your attention. We look forward to the answers of Minister Liina Kersna.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U210	Thank you. Liina Kersna, Minister of Education and Science, will answer the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U211	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable questioners, thank you very much for raising this very important issue so that we can discuss the implementation of inclusive education in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu. I'm trying to answer your questions. Question one. "Do you think that the so-called inclusive learning model, which is deeply frustrating for students and teachers for years, is sustainable in Estonia as an experiment? " In order to guarantee the fundamental right to education, the Riigikogu has created a legal framework. The Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, which came into force in 2010, laid down the principle of inclusive education throughout the Estonian education organisation. In ten years, the number of special school pupils has decreased by more than 500 students, while the total number of students in general education has increased by 10000. Every parent has the right to put his or her child in the school of his or her place of residence. However, in the case of more complex problems and diagnoses, such as intellectual or composite disabilities, the needs of a child can be best met in a special school, precisely because there is no other competence required. Which school is most suitable for a child depends on his or her special needs. And that choice is made by the parent. At present, 9397 children with special educational needs are studying in general education schools, they are enhanced support or children who are being eliminated. The majority of them are in mainstream school. About one third of all students with special needs study in a special school, one third in a special school and one third in a regular school. So the last ones are in the order of magnitude of 3,000. International studies have shown that inclusive educational arrangements increase opportunities for communication with peers and for friendships between children with special needs and without special needs, and inclusion improves the academic and social coping of children with special needs. Inclusive educational arrangements increase the likelihood of people with special needs participating in employment and being economically independent, having a social network and friendships in adulthood. The survey carried out in Estonia in 2016 also showed a higher rate of further education for pupils with special needs included in the ordinary school and a higher rate of implementation in the labour market compared to those who graduated from the special school. An inclusive education system can only be created if mainstream schools become more inclusive, in other words if they become better at teaching all children in their communities. To this end, in 2017 the Riigikogu amended the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, which created more opportunities for schools and schoolkeepers to organise learning based on the individual needs of the student and implement support systems. As a result of the legislative amendment, the implementation of support services as well as the number of support specialists and the number of posts of support specialists has increased since 2018 with the support of state funding. But we know that this is definitely not enough. Acquiring competences for the work of children with special educational needs has been a priority for teachers' continuing education for many years. According to the results of TALIS, participation in training to support students with special needs has increased the most in recent years. Competence to observe and take into account the different interests, abilities and needs of learners, including specific educational needs, and to teach in accordance with the principles of inclusive education, is a condition for obtaining a teaching profession and thus an indispensable part of graduate training. We know that according to studies, many teachers say that they lack sufficient skills to teach children with special needs. It is with these teachers in mind that this year the Master's degree programme for inclusive education will begin with a common curriculum at both the University of Tartu and Tallinn, where a teacher who is working in particular can participate flexibly. Inclusive education is undoubtedly a complex and challenging approach. The main risk associated with inclusive education is that it will only be partially implemented. The success of inclusive education requires much more than putting a student with special educational needs into the normal class and then hoping for the best. Integrating a student into a normal class without the necessary support is detrimental to a specific student, fellow students and teachers, who will have to provide all the support. It's not really an inclusive education. At the same time, if inclusive education is properly implemented, it can bring benefits to all students in both academic and social terms and to society in general, as it will significantly reduce the burden on the welfare system at a later stage, for example. The second question: "In the debate on teacher follow-up in the autumn, it was clearly pointed out that teachers do not have a basically career model. What kind of changes are you planning? What kind of resources do you intend to provide for this in the Ministry? " Teachers' career model is an important part of the whole approach to teachers' secondary growth. In order to analyse the activities, a working group was set up from the partners involved in post-teacher education and the attractiveness of the teaching profession, which formulated the main root problems. Partners estimate that one problem is the lack of career opportunities and personal development, as you referred to in the question. Even now, school leaders have been given the opportunity to agree with the teacher on tasks that support teacher motivation, allow self-realisation and support the need for achievement. In addition, there is a professional standard to support the professional development of the teacher. From 2014, teachers will be able to apply for an invitation at the level of a teacher, a senior teacher or a master teacher. The expectation of developing career models based on professional levels and linking them to wages has been expressed by various stakeholders and is one of the goals of the education development plan 2021 to 2035. A new period of Structural Funds is underway, with the support, inter alia, of the aim of developing and piloting a career model for teachers in cooperation with schools and school holders. We also plan to increase the capacity of universities to train teachers and education leaders and to research in the field of education sciences. We in the Ministry also have a follow-up action plan for teachers on the basis of the work of this working group, and there, too, the career model for teachers is an important one. Question 3: "Teachers' associations have repeatedly indicated that the Ministry of Education and Research does not apply good practice on inclusion. Do you recognise this and how do you intend to reinstate this good practice? Do you foresee specific tasks for yourself and the Ministry's leadership? " I now very much hope that such complaints have occurred earlier, not in the last three months. In three months, I myself have met with the representatives of the association on two occasions. These meetings have been very cooperative and constructive. However, for inclusion to be effective and to take into account the interests of the various parties, a procedure has been adopted within the Ministry to determine and approve strategic partners for a three-year period. Associations are seen as strategic partners whose activities contribute to achieving the objectives of the ministry's fields in line with the orientations set out in the strategic development documents. Since 2019, teachers' associations who wish to do so have been partnered with the Ministry through the NGO Teacher Associations Cooperation Chamber and umbrella organisation and have been involved in discussing different topics. Currently, 22 associations of teachers and support specialists are part of the umbrella organisation. We have involved teachers' associations in the development of education and language development plans. This is also confirmed by associations in the internal reports of activities submitted to the Cooperation Chamber of the Teacher Communities. In addition, the Ministry has involved teachers' associations, for example, to carry out distance training for schools in drawing up crisis guidelines, as well as exit plans, drafting proposals and updating the study literature regulation. The representatives of the teachers' associations are also reviewers of the teaching literature being created, as well as their participation in the provision of educational services and in the development of e-school bags and national curricula, etc. We certainly consider it important to involve associations. We will also update the strategy for the next partnership period so that involvement is greater and more transparent and understandable for the individual representatives of the Community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U212	Thank you. There are also questions for the Minister. Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U213	[[Remote connection]] Yeah, thanks for the opportunity. I would first like to thank the Minister for his answers. Indeed, I, as a university lecturer, have been finding more and more that the knowledge of graduates has declined over the years. And little of that, I really dare say that you won't find any professors with such a long experience who wouldn't agree with it. Now I ask you whether you agree that one reason may be precisely the same inclusive learning, i.e. the integration of children with special needs into the general education system, so that the learning opportunities of the rest have suffered. And the second question: what changes have you envisaged in order to prevent a further drop in the quality of our education?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U214	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for your question. Of course, such feedback is a cause for concern. In general, I have not seen scientific studies that show that our children's education levels have fallen in any way. Rather, we have seen that, for example, the results of our students' PISA tests have improved year after year. But I guess it all depends on what's being measured exactly. Teachers and teachers' qualifications are certainly a strategic concern of our education system. We know we have a lack of teachers. In particular, we lack teachers of science and science. In some schools, children are taught by teachers who are not qualified. The problem of teacher follow-up is one that needs to be addressed and invested in. It's really important. Let's just say that we in the ministry are drawing up a teacher follow-up action plan, so it's almost done. Even at the time when Riigikogu discussed the topic of teachers' secondary growth as a matter of national importance, the Committee on Culture held very thorough hearings and invited representatives of the Commission's organisations, I myself was in the Riigikogu at the time, and this was the excellent work that was done, the ministry had a parallel discussion on the same subject and was also a working group. Today, this working group has completed its work and made proposals. Clearly, these are all the burdens on teachers, the quality of school management, the same career model for teachers, and certainly also the important issues that must be addressed in order for us to continue to have high-skilled teachers in schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U215	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U216	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister, thank you for your answers. However, I would like to ask you this additional question: what has been the impact of the implementation of inclusive education on learners' learning performance, and has there been any impact analyses, studies or surveys on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U217	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for your question. As I pointed out in my replies, a study was carried out in 2016 on the progress of students with special needs in ordinary schools. This showed that it was children with special needs who achieved higher results in school than children in special schools. But the way things are going with the other kids, we can see from the overall measurements. We're doing some level tests, exams, etc. At least I haven't been able to get the information that the level of study has fallen in any way. Of course, I look forward to measuring students' knowledge at a heartbreak now on the basis of distance learning, examinations and diagnostic tests at the beginning of the new academic year. But that our children's learning levels have fallen because of the implementation of inclusive education, I do not know that they have been scientifically measured.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U218	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U219	Yeah, thanks! Good Minister, thank you for your answers. In your original reply, you said that the integration of children with special needs into normal life is the best way to go to ordinary schools. But is it also meant that a child with special needs is not suitable for normal school and feels much better in an environment that is specially adapted to his or her needs and where teachers and educators who are trained to do so? This is what parents of children with special needs ask for.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U220	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for your question. Just like I said, really, we have children divided into a so-called third-third-third. One third of children with special needs are in schools for children with special needs, one third is in special schools and one third is in mainstream schools. In fact, we see, for example, in the case of the Masing School in Tartu, which is a school for children with special needs and very popular, that they are happy to take their children there and that both children and families really feel that they are being dealt with professionally. That is why I stressed that inclusive education can be implemented if there is a need for support staff and teachers at school who are able to teach children with special needs. This is where it is important for a parent to be well counseled enough to know which school is best for a particular child. I very much hope that one day we will reach the point where we generally have enough support staff at school, because we know that this is not enough at the moment and, on the other hand, our teachers' skills are also such that they can manage to support children with special needs. But yes, right now a parent can really choose which school he puts his child in and where he feels that the child is best supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U221	Uno Kaskpeit, please! [[Silence.]] Uno, we have no contact with you. Let's try to come back in a little while. Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U222	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, At present, inclusive education needs to take into account the ever-increasing and increasing burden on teachers. In hours and outside hours, they must devote a great deal of attention to children with special needs. It can be said that local governments, outside Tallinn at least, are constantly lacking in all kinds of special education schools. It's a constant, chronic deficiency. And teachers' own skills leave much to be desired in this area. Where do you think additional resources could be found in relation to the constant increase in the burden on teachers and in relation to inclusive education? What can be done to prevent the increasing mental pressure of mainstream teachers, and what can be done to prevent teachers from burning out?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U223	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I recently also met school leaders from different regions, and there also a school manager said that he has to do more and more small classes every year because children who need special treatment are getting more and more. That's a problem. And indeed, the general figures show that the number of children with special educational needs is increasing. What can we do? We have increased the order of specialized pedagogues, logo beets, so that more of these specialists come in. For what do local governments, as the main schoolteachers, say first and foremost? They say we have money to hire specialists, but we don't have the specialists to hire. This is, above all, a problem, not only in small rural areas, but also in cities. How has this situation been resolved? For example, in Viljandi, as well as in Saaremaa and Tartu, there are educational support centres that bring together support staff agencies, such as special educators, logos, school psychologists, social pedagogues, and these specialists cover schools in the region. Since every school doesn't have its own specialist, they're being shared. It certainly has its pros and cons. One way or another, it would be perfect if one school had its own specialist who could be called to help properly if needed or could be consulted. But in such a shortage of people or specialists there is such a support center system, I think, our future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U224	Uno Kaskpeit, let's try to get back in touch. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U225	[[Remote connection]] Do you hear me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U226	Yeah, I can hear you now. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U227	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister, I have the following question: is Estonia planning to change course, i.e. abandon inclusive education in the form it is currently taking place? Is it known where inclusive education has been abandoned and why?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U228	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. We certainly do not abandon the principle that a child must be educated in a school close to his home. In general, a school close to home must be able to provide the child with the kind of support he or she needs on his or her education. At the same time, I do not think that we should lose special schools, for example. I'm sure they're necessary. I think that the state must make an effort and ensure that children with special needs receive a good education of equal quality in different areas of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U229	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U230	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I refer, not by name, to a teacher who suggested that all kinds of workers involved in promoting inclusive education should give themselves lessons at school, even one or two hours a week, in order to understand what is really going on. They should not teach teachers solely on the basis of the theory of how to deal with children with special educational needs when they themselves have no real connection with the main part of school life, or lessons. Have you received such input from teachers or their representative organisations during their involvement? If not, could this point be applied? Because something needs to be changed. As far as I am concerned about communicating with teachers and school leaders, I have heard only dissatisfaction with the current inclusive education system.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U231	[[Remote connection]] [[I can't hear the beginning.]] We must make an effort to have a support system in place. In fact, there are two options: a schoolkeeper can either hire a class assistant teacher who can pay more attention to a child with special needs or make a small school with a trained teacher who can handle children. Because our goal is for all children to receive adequate education. And I don't think anyone's gonna fight it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U232	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U233	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I'm gonna have to fix a few things. My pedagogical activities ended in 2014 and I can assure you that over the long years I managed to experience that the level of knowledge of students and students has become worse. So any tests may show you different data, but immediate experience confirms that the level has gotten worse. Now it's different. As a child, I have been in a class with a child with special needs today. He was an object of constant harassment, he was very difficult to cope with in that class, and it was very difficult to cope with others. And here's my question. You said that the level of children with special needs has increased in an inclusive school. What, though, has happened to the level of children without special needs? I'm asking for an answer to that too!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U234	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Look, this is what we would like to achieve with inclusive education, so that people with special needs, including children, are not bullied. People with special needs around us are a natural part of society. As I said earlier, measurements, the results of measuring the knowledge of our children show that there has been no fallback in knowledge. All PISA tests show improvement in results. I don't have any specific research to take aside here, but regular knowledge measurements haven't detected a relapse.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U235	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U236	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! I would put this inclusive education on a wider scale. I'm a former headmaster myself. Me and the school leaders in Ida-Virumaa still go together and discuss things. One question is what we have repeatedly addressed to the education ministers, and the Ida-Viru County Support Group has also addressed this issue, namely, in our schools, where children in other languages study with children in Estonian in one class, it is always a problem that one teacher cannot cope with all children. We have asked and asked and turned to finance this problem, but now in the new RES, I cannot see that it has been solved again. How about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U237	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Yeah, I think it's also an extremely important theme setting. I have also visited Ida-Virumaa and met representatives of local governments in Ida-Virumaa. Indeed, there is a long-standing solution to this problem, but so far it has not been proposed. We in the Ministry have developed a support measure for educational institutions in Estonian, where a significant number of Russian-speaking or non-Russian children are already studying to offer these schools the opportunity to teach these children in smaller groups so that they can better adapt to the Estonian-language education system and make better progress in learning. That's what we're going to pilot this autumn. Perhaps from the beginning of the new academic year, schools will be able to apply for this support and we will see how it works, whether it will help those educational institutions in Estonian where there are quite a few children in other languages. This is primarily the subject of Ida-Virumaa, and it is also a theme of Valgamaa, for example, which also includes 50% children in Estonian and 50% in other languages in some kindergartens. But in Valga Elementary School, for example, 20% of children are in other languages. We have seen this tendency for many years in a row that more and more families of children in other languages place their children in an educational institution in Estonian. Thus, the number of children in Estonian-language educational institutions is increasing, but the number of children in Russian-speaking schools is decreasing. So, yes, this problem raise is very correct. This year, we will try to manage our resources to support schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U238	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U239	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Does it not seem to you that inclusive education, or inclusive learning, which is currently largely applicable, may not be the most economical? Not to mention content. If he were, he would be a specialized school in the first place, i.e. with the necessary training and motivational teachers.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U240	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Indeed, in terms of education economy, it would probably be cheaper to put children with special needs together and then teach them there. But it's not really what we want. We don't want these kids to be distinguished. We want every child, regardless of their special needs, to receive the best possible education in a school close to home. The question is simply whether he gets as good an education as possible at a school close to home. We have had marked cases where a child with really special needs has not been noticed and supported, and his development has therefore been damaged. However, these have been exceptions. But yes, I think we cannot look at education only from the point of view of education economics. Otherwise, we could have very big schools and not have 1/6. up to class, especially near-home schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U241	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U242	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! Personally, I very much support inclusive education and very much support stakeholder involvement. In response to your inquiry, you commended the Ministry's involvement processes for the last three months, claiming that you have built up a very good system of engagement, working with teachers and stakeholders in the field of education. Last week, the Estonian educational world was shocked by your decision to increase the salaries of teachers by 3%, at the expense of 50% reduction in the money for recreational education. This also seriously hits on the same teachers who work in recreational education, as they receive a very large share of this spending on recreational education. And that's the question of inclusion. Who, and how have you involved in the field of education, in order to make anti-educational decisions relating to recreational education?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U243	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. It doesn't add up to the question of questioning, but I'll explain. First of all, I have watched local authorities contribute to recreational education. And indeed, ensuring that your children receive an interest education is a task assigned to them by the Local Government Act. I must commend the local authorities, they have taken this task very seriously and have contributed to ensuring an education of interest. For example, if you look at children's sport, youth work and recreational activities, more than €100 million have been contributed by local authorities in addition to state support. If you say that with the support of this country, it is the teachers of recreational education that have been supported, there really are regions where the teachers of recreational education have also been supported, but this has not been widely the case. In general, however, this money has been used to diversify the circles of interest, almost 70% of this money has gone there, and over 11% was to ensure accessibility. At the same time, there are examples of how public money is distributed even to everyone who only asks, and almost every child gets an interest education round for free. This has been very different in local governments. What I mean by this is that if the state's support falls to EUR 7.2 million, which is also a lot of money, I think that this money could be used by local authorities to support the pay of teachers in recreational and recreational education. I think that would make sense. But in mid-May we will discuss this issue with representatives of the local government.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U244	Good Minister, there are no more questions for you. Let's go to the negotiations. Helle-Moonika Helme, please! Please, three minutes extra time, eight in total!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U245	Thank you. Good minister! President-in-Office of the Council. Last autumn, when discussing a very serious and important aspect of ensuring the sustainability of Estonian school education, namely the topic of teacher follow-up, I was the only one who touched on one of the teachers' greatest concerns, which often makes them leave their beloved profession. This is the ideology of inclusive education, which was imported from abroad in the years when our education system was reformed. Yeah, it seemed so thoughtful, humane and progressive at first. After Soviet times, when children with special needs and disabilities did not appear to be ashamed, they did not belong to the normal picture of the world, they were banished to special schools, and they were hidden from the rest of society so that they would not interfere, the whole idea had to be rethinked at once. Unfortunately, the original good intention happened, as always, when something was done in a hurry, by copying away from the circumstances in which the assumptions and motivation for introducing something had been quite different than ours. Perhaps the system, which has been relatively successful in some direction in developed countries, was simply taken over. Instead of looking, perhaps there would have been something good and right in our own circumstances and methods to go on, everything was thrown overboard and taken one step into the new world, a better future. To date, we know, of course, that hiding behind noble goals was an attempt to solve a much bigger problem from the point of view of the state. The reason was prosaic, as usual. This was due to the lack of money and the need for savings. The current system of regular and special schools was financially burdensome for the state and, in addition to the sign of caring, the reform of inclusive education could also be accompanied by an aspect of cost optimisation. The Excel chart certainly liked that idea. We'll put all the kids together in one school, they'll be fine. If so far the bar had been set for the stronger, then now it had to be set for the weaker. What the hell! It didn't seem so bad at first. I guess there have been kids in schools with a little more need for help. The system once allowed them to repeat the class course and eventually received all their testimony. Teachers still had authority, and the teacher-student relationship was the master-student relationship. But then everything quietly changed. The teacher gradually became a customer service and student client, a municipal schoolgiver who operated with a state-funded bounty, and every head of the school had to be accepted to keep the teachers paid or to have a school at all. All the children who attended school in the area had to be admitted to the classes. Since special children could no longer go to special schools because there were practically no schools anymore, and the concept provided that it was important for a growing generation to see life in all its diversity in order to increase tolerance and tolerance, teachers were gradually put on a burden, which they obviously were unable to bear at some point, in the context of inclusive education. As always, when something has come to its senses and some path has begun, even if it has proved to be out of hand and wrong, for God's sake, it doesn't step off this path, it doesn't admit mistakes, it doesn't choose another direction. Where are you going with that? If the teacher is unable or unable to cope with new tasks and duties, then we send him to training. If a teacher cannot cope with certain students, we hire additional supporters and assistant teachers. As long as we are able to move forward with a system that has begun to introduce a legislative spider network. Even if the original concept of austerity is already being replaced by several times higher costs, with the growing need for supporters, assistant teachers, psychologists, logopaedes, the determination to follow the wrong path will cost and not a little. A number of officials and educators who have built this whole system up in the Ministry over the years, do not have to continue to justify their existence and get bread on the table. Then one day we find out that there are no more teachers coming to our schools. Or rather, there are. Statistically, young people who feel in their hearts a calling and a mission to acquire the teaching profession and to go to pedagogical work have not been reduced. The idea of learning and passing on knowledge continues to spur many young people. Thank God! But instead of allowing these young bright-eyed people to do what they have come to school for, to teach their subject as effectively as possible, these young people discover that, in addition, they must be social workers, psychologists, law enforcement and servicemen. If we don't do something about this right now, if we don't change the system, and if we keep going on with the blunt consistency, I predict that we won't have and will not have any teacher follow-up. But the kids, too. There are certainly children with special needs who can be taught successfully in normal schools, who can cope and whose self-esteem thus only rises. But, unfortunately, one of the drawbacks of inclusive education is that it is not mentioned that special children need a safe environment for growth and learning. Forced into a regular school, they lose the little self-esteem and joy they otherwise have. Children inevitably compare themselves with others. And as sad as it may seem, in regular school, they realize fully that they are not like the others. No matter how hard we try to tell them that you are, they get anxious. It is difficult for them, it is difficult for teachers, and it is difficult for their schoolmates, because they in turn lack the teacher's attention. It should also be noted that we have a large number of talented children. They too have not received enough attention and commitment from teachers and educators in the current inclusive education system. We should also strive to enhance our spiritual riches. The current experiment on inclusive education should be recognised as largely a failure. We must begin to see this as a reason for the many consequences that have been solved at the wrong end and which therefore do not provide any solution, but lead our school life into an even bigger mess. Our children, our teachers and the future of our good education await new solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U246	There's no more calls. We're done negotiating. I will, however, ask if the Minister would like an closing point. No, I don't. Then we are done with item six. Before we go to the seventh item, good heirs and honourable Minister, I apologise to you, we must eliminate the small technical problems. I'll take the manager's break for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U247	Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that we have eliminated technical failures and we can go to the seventh item. Inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu Helle-Moonika Helme and Jaak Valge concerning irregularities and offences in the Ministry of Education and Research. Please, the representative of the heirs, Helle-Moonika Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U248	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, who are still at their worktops at this late hour, and also a good colleague who is in this Chamber! So, members of the Riigikogu Jaak Valge and Helle-Moonika Helme issued an inquiry on 23 March to the Minister of Education and Research, Liina Kersna. The content of this inquiry was that we would like to know the wider background of irregularities and irregularities in the Ministry of Education and Research. When we were already inquiring, we actually stated that this inquiry concerned the previous minister, during which there were cases of corruption that were now clear in the Ministry of Education and Research and which had a major public response, which are currently being dealt with by law enforcement authorities. We know that following the appearance of irregularities and irregularities in the Ministry of Education and Research during the term of office of Minister Mailis Reps, the Ministry's administration confirmed to the public that some clarifications had to be made in the internal regulations, such as the use of a professional car, etc., in order to avoid similar abuses in the future. This brought the situation under control so firmly that in the future, the Ministry of Education and Research will no longer be able to engage in professional abuse. In this regard, we would like to know whether, as a new minister, you can be sure that the Ministry of Education and Research still does not employ those officials who, despite their duties in the job description, were engaged in regular or even daily family affairs in the Minister's private sphere, including dealing with children, already in 2016. Have you asked for such information from persons on the board of the Ministry whose duties include, or are subject to, control over the compatibility of the professional descriptions of the ministry staff, including non-staff specialists, with their actual professional activities? What specific legislation have you amended in order to rule out any such cases and the fraudulent and selfish use of state property by both the Minister and the Ministry's leadership in the future? Has the Ministry conducted an internal investigation to identify all persons and circumstances involved in the charge? If so, what results did this bring, and in this connection was anyone held accountable? And another question: has the coffeemaker Yura, which allegedly cost 3,000 euros, been returned to the Ministry? New circumstances have now become apparent as regards the Mercedes minibus, which was at the disposal of Minister Reps, which was purchased during his term of office in the Ministry, used by the Minister and which, after the change of minister, did not find any useful use in the Ministry, and therefore, according to the Ministry, it was simply handed over to a school where children with special needs study. That's great, of course. But other schools, why don't they have buses at the Ministry of Education and Science? We understand that these issues may be uncomfortable for the current minister, but control over what is happening in the ministry's administration is one of his tasks and therefore we expect concrete and constructive answers from the Minister. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U249	Liina Kersna, Minister of Education and Science, will now be able to respond. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U250	[[Remote connection]] Good chairman of the sitting! Honourable questioners! Indeed, I would like to begin immediately by apologizing for the relatively narrow answers, because I say as much as I can say, and let us see if there are any questions left in the air or not. But I'm trying. Since Mrs Helme has read the questions, I am not going to read the same questions myself again, but to answer them. Question one. It's really hard for me to judge the past because I didn't work in that house at the time, and I'm really in the middle of an investigation. However, I can say that all the officials whose work I see every day carry out the tasks set out in their job descriptions. They do their work with dedication, with a heart, and I am very grateful to them for that. Question two. Yeah, I've been discussing the issues mentioned at the beginning of your letter with the members of the Ministry's administration, and I've been asking for information about that. The direct manager of the staff member shall be responsible for ensuring that the duties are carried out correctly, as well as for supporting the staff member in the performance of his duties. Of course, an overview of the tasks can also be monitored through the document management system. The current government has approved a set of ethical principles for ministers and their advisors. Perhaps there are guidelines for the prevention of conflicts of interest for ministers and their advisers. According to the instructions, when recruiting an advisor, the Minister will assess the risk of his or her potential conflict of interest as well as his or her compliance with the ethical and professional standards of the public service. The employment contract of the Adviser to the Minister of Education and Research also includes an obligation to comply with the rules of the Code of Ethics of the Civil Service and the Prevention of Conflict of Interest and to prevent the emergence of situations and conflicts of interest which threaten corruption. Answer to question three. Yes, the procedure for compensation for the use of professional cars and the use of private cars by the Ministry of Education and Research has been changed. The management and control measures of the Ministry governing the behaviour of employees, the use of state assets, the control of economic transactions, decision-making processes etc. have also been analysed. There are also the internal procedures of the Ministry of Education and Research, the internal accounting rules etc. In January, we appointed the Head of the Internal Audit Department to act as coordinator of anti-corruption activities in the Ministry, under the authority of the Minister. Under his leadership, an action plan has been drawn up aimed at raising awareness of corruption and increasing transparency in decisions and actions. The action plan has also started to be implemented. The Ministry's information days have taken place and are underway, analysing the management and control measures of the Ministry's administration and assessing possible risks of corruption. Question four, I.A. In a situation where the subject is being dealt with by investigative bodies, the Ministry has no reason to investigate it further. And the fifth question concerning the coffee maker. All coffee machines purchased by the Ministry are used in the Ministry's buildings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U251	You have at least one question. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U252	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I am of the opinion that since you have been in this profession for quite some time now, you have come to know the so-called soul life of this house. It is clear that the issues raised in the inquiry have certainly been on the agenda in this house as well, and that has been said, even in the corner of coffee or in the corner of smoke. I did not really understand the subject that the matter was still being examined, although it has been a long time since it was probably last November or December when it was first made public. But now that you've settled in this house, I'd like to know how this process works internally. This is about the introduction of the Mercedes-Benz bus, etc. What levers must be pressed so that this process can actually take place?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U253	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for your question. I didn't quite understand the question. If you are now thinking about handing over the bus used by this ministry to two schools of children with special needs and this process, then really, under the conditions of the corona, it could be seen that this bus does not have sufficient use. At the same time, two schools of children with special needs, Hiie School and Emajõgi School, which are run by one, had announced a procurement and announced that they wanted a bus. Then we saw an opportunity and decided that since we have a bus standing right now, we would hand it over to this school for use. It will certainly have use there, and the school family will be very happy about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U254	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U255	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! The Ministry of Education and Research bought a bus for the Minister Reps, which the Ministry itself did not need. The driver on the ministry's payroll did not drive the minister, as his main task envisaged, but the minister's children. None of these activities could have been carried out without the chancellor's knowledge. These things took place with the knowledge and assistance of the chancellor. That's all it was possible. In what way does the Chancellor now bear responsibility for contributing to corrupt conduct, and what has been done about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U256	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. As you know very well, the investigation is underway. Once we have learned the results of the investigation, we will be able to draw our own conclusions and, if necessary, make our own decisions in the ministry.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U257	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U258	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Good minister! Let me help you first. You don't understand Kalle Grünthal's question. Kalle Grünthal didn't mind that the school for children with special needs got a bus, so everyone's happy about it. His question was, why can't the others get the bus? But what was the preceding question is, in my opinion, the point. As far as I was able to serve as a minister, there were missions or events. If I didn't have a very correct rapporteur, economic department and chancellor who said that this could be done and that it wasn't in accordance with our internal procedures, you'd have to pay for it yourself, and we can put this thing in the Ministry's expense, then it's very possible I had some mistakes, too, but I didn't. The whole point is this: in fact, the official body will make sure that all financial decisions are correct. There's no way the officials didn't notice anything. What part of this official body has been responsible for what kind of responsibility?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U259	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. That is exactly what your question is about to be answered by an investigation that is currently underway. As for why other schools can't get a bus, as I said, the Hiie and Emajõgi schools were just about to announce a call for a bus. As far as I know, the other schools haven't done it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U260	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U261	[[Remote connection]] Minister, thank you very much. Now we've heard basically only bad about Mailis Reps. I don't want to minimize what may have happened in the ministry, but I want to talk a little bit about my experience. I have been on a foreign visit with Mailis Reps and I have seen it as competently and with great enthusiasm he has praised and talked about the Estonian education system there, as much as he has had knowledge of it. I would actually like you, as a minister, now looking at the work of the previous minister in the field of basically the Ministry of Education and Education, to say whether there is any positive sign of it. Could you shed some light on that side so we don't just have a one-sided picture of Mailis Reps as a person who's never done anything good?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U262	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Of course, the Minister of Education Mailis Reps has done a very good job in a number of areas. What have I seen and appreciated now in this capacity? First of all, really, as you pointed out in your question, Mailis Reps has done a very good job as an excellent foreign communicator and as a seller of the success story of Estonian education. The very difficult task that Mail has been able to do is to create a large office for education and youth. It consists of several bodies with an organisational culture, state agencies and foundations. It was a very complicated process, but it was done. And this is a very big step forward. It is certainly very important that during the Mailis Reps agreement was reached that we will contribute 1% to R &amp; D. And so will the current government. I would also like to highlight what I have now seen in my work, namely, I think that very important and correct conclusions have been drawn from the spring distance learning period. For example, it is that children with special needs can continue with contact training, a very important lesson that I think we took with us from spring and which was already formulated during the time of Mailis Reps. This is a more flexible attitude towards distance learning. So I think, of course, that a number of substantive things have been done very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U263	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U264	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The Special Committee on Corruption has also addressed this issue that has taken place in the Ministry of Education. One of the conclusions that I have drawn from this debate is that quite a few people from the Ministry of Education have witnessed alleged violations of law for quite a long time. It was only when the first of them approached law enforcement and the media that everyone else started talking. And that's when the cases started to come up, which are at the point of suspicion, but they'll probably get to the charges soon enough. How do you feel that this culture of reporting infringements has also changed among the officials of the Ministry of Education? While you said that officials are all very good and will follow their instructions, would they now, for example, in case of your slips, dare to turn to the law enforcement authorities? How's the whistle blowing now at the Ministry of Education?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U265	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. First of all, I say that I am certainly not going to judge anyone; that is what our respective bodies in Estonia are doing. I can really only talk about what I've personally experienced. And I've rather experienced the utmost caution so that everything is exactly as it should be. In fact, I have also said to the officials: I am grateful for being overly cautious rather than allowing me to make some kind of wrong decision or move, for example, out of ignorance.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U266	Good Minister, there are no more questions for you. Thank you! Now let us get to the negotiations, and Helle-Moonika Helme wishes to speak. Please! Three minutes, please, extra time! Eight in all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U267	Thank you to the good President-in-Office. Thank you also to the Minister for giving us answers, in fact, as I said in the introduction of this inquiry, to relatively uncomfortable questions for him. It is kind of eloquent that, three decades after independence, we still have to talk about corruption in the form we saw in the Ministry of Education and Research a few months ago. That was also the reason why I and Jaak White were alone, but in fact, on behalf of the whole EKRE Group, we made an inquiry into what happened in the administration of the Ministry of Education and Research. In fact, it's something that we ideally shouldn't even talk about anymore and that should be long forgotten. Our society should be so advanced a long time ago that the elite chosen, invited and set should not think of doing such a thing, and should not even think of such a thing. Even if, it should be elementary that a thinker like that would, figuratively speaking, give himself a finger in the bubbly of such an emerging thinker and say, "No, you won't. " And it should be just as natural for all the officials around, working with the Minister, to see that the boss not only thinks but also acts in a dubious direction, they take on this courage and responsibility to say out loud: " Minister, this idea and behaviour is in no way consistent with your position and status. Please don't do that! It casts a shadow not only upon you, but casts a shadow on all the authorities, all of us." Why did we ask this question? In a situation where, after the Minister's actions came to the public, the Minister resigned, the law enforcement authorities continue to deal with him, and this issue should therefore be closed. But precisely because all this years-long, slowly evolving situation, where the Minister was confused with private and operational needs, private and public resources, private money and taxpayers' money, did not happen in a vacuum. It's not for nothing to say where the players, the seers. If anything lasts longer, then where doers, including co-workers, co-thinkers, helpers, and justifyrs. Corruption is never about itself and has nothing to do with just one person. Corruption is a network, with players, seers, aiders, noders and justifications. Apart from corruption itself, there are usually a number of other beneficiaries, which is why corrupt acts come out only after they have lasted for a long time, even for years. The circle of beneficiaries has grown, the activity has become increasingly cynical and skinnical, and all parties have developed a sense of impunity. The content of our inquiry was much wider to find out whether the whole network of officials who were aware and also participated in the corrupt actions of the previous Minister of Education, Mailis Reps, had understood their lies, embarrassing and, I would say, even illegal behaviour, as I said. Have they, figuratively speaking, gotten any sticks? I hope that, in the course of an official investigation, it will be possible to find out who looked aside and who worked with the Minister for years out of either naivety, fear or personal gain, which allowed him to involve the ministry's driver to drive his large family, to go shopping for the Minister and to exercise with children, to include an advisor as a babysitter or, if the Minister was on a trip, to use his advisors at home as babysitters. After all, this has been a public secret in the ministry and has come out with rumours. Corruption, in this form, is deeply damaging to the public's sense of justice and, sadder still, it lowers the levels of perception of corruption in our entire society to the level that we see in countries where it is considered natural that rulers are stealing, and where the prevalant attitudes are that if you are in a high position and do not use it skilfully and cleverly for your own good, you are not worthy of this position either, because you cannot live. We ourselves teach these countries how to eradicate corruption. Regrettably, however, at the same time, we do what we say to others that it is not beautiful, it is not democratic, and it is not appropriate for the rule of law. That is why the content of our inquiry is very deep and very fundamental. Has anyone been spoken to the people around the previous minister, the officials of the ministry? Have they understood what was wrong for years and what they did wrong? Do they perceive the broader picture and the message it sent to society? I hope that the new minister will also plan some structural changes in the staff of the Ministry of Education and Research and will do something to make sure that these people are at least reprimanded so that they know: they will be kept an eye on them. And not just us, but society as a whole should have a deep concern about this. Has the new minister explicitly indoctrinated his collective that what they did is not normal, it is not right? I hope that this entire network of officials covered by the corrupt acts of the previous Minister will be found out and that the new minister has established himself in this sense so that nothing like this will happen in his time. And not only in his time, but so that such thinking may be eradicated even for the future, so as not to say eternally forever. Because our country and all of us deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U268	The members of the Riigikogu have no more requests to speak. Would the Minister like to respond? I don't see that wish. Therefore, we have closed the seventh item and the points on our agenda today have been exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-03_U269	As always on Monday, it is possible to register for a speech in a free microphone after the hammer hit. Please! No one asked to speak in a free microphone, so today's session is closed. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00. Good night.
