ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U1	Ladies and gentlemen, Good Tuesday morning. We will begin the Tuesday session of the 7th working week of the VI session and now it is possible to deliver drafts and questions. Please! Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U2	Honourable representative of the people!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U3	One moment, Mr. Reinsalu! Let's try to keep the hall down a little bit. Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U4	Thanks for the remark! On behalf of the members of the Rea Isamaa Envoy Group, I will report an inquiry to Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Taavi Asa. The question concerns the problems of Estonian maritime affairs, namely the problems related to the audit of the International Maritime Organisation (IMO), which includes Estonia, as well as the problems related to the regularisation and implementation of the new Transport Board. One scheme of the Transport Board was submitted to the legislator on the merger of several agencies, but it has now become apparent that the scheme is far different from the one introduced to the legislator in practice. Thirdly, the questioners are interested in why the international classification society Veritas has not been provided with a whole series of information on changes to the quality system. This is an important issue concerning maritime safety, the performance of the tasks of the maritime administration by the Estonian state, which has been taken by international agreements, and we hope that the Minister for Economic Affairs, without stretching, will provide Parliament with clarity on this sensitive issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U5	I don't see any more wishes. Consequently, I have adopted one inquiry and the Bureau will, of course, decide on its further processing in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now conducting a presence check. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U6	82 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present. Now I have an announcement to give you. The Group of the Estonian Reform Party proposed that the Management Board of the Riigikogu be moved to 9. Plenary sessions of 19 November in the form of a remote sitting. The Bureau discussed this proposal this morning, but we did not reach a consensus and we therefore need to vote through this point in this Chamber. Some clarifications resulting from this proposal. First of all, the Reform Party's proposal was to do this 9/26. November, starting today, but since our session today has already begun, we cannot, of course, transform it into a remote sitting. [[In the diner.]] Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? Our Home and Rules of Procedure Act provides that today's session will last until the agenda is exhausted and that is why we are working today according to the proposed agenda. Secondly, this working cycle will run in this large Chamber until 25 November inclusive, not 26 November, and the maximum we can vote on here is that a remote sitting will take place between 10 November and 25 November tomorrow, i.e. Thursday inclusive. So, it seems that colleagues have raised questions about this. Mr. Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U7	Thank you, good vice chairman. Am I correct to understand that this relates to tomorrow's date precisely because, when it is presented tomorrow, it is difficult to take the Thursday sitting to a distance?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U8	No, it has nothing to do with tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. What we can decide is that our home and operating procedures provide that, as a rule, a remote sitting must be notified three days in advance. It is possible to do so more quickly if there are weighty circumstances. What we discussed on the board is our current epidemiological situation and also the recommendation of the Government of the Republic to work at a distance if possible. These are the compelling reasons, and since we did not reach a consensus on the Bureau, we must decide on this in this large Chamber today. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U9	Good manager! [[Pick a buzz in the hall.]] I have one first question: maybe you can silence your colleagues. I didn't hear much of what you said before. That's the first thing. The task of the meeting manager is to keep the hall in a polite condition. But the second question is about this proposal by the Reform Party. As we know, our company here is practically all vaccinated twice, some three times over 90%, I don't know, 95% or how much we have here. What kind of sign does it give to society, if the Minister of Education wants to keep schools open, etc., etc., or who here is most afraid of death, is it the party of the Reform Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U10	Yeah, thanks! After all, the issue now is that it is necessary to reduce contacts in society, and in order precisely to keep schools open, the Government of the Republic has called on all employers to do so if it is possible to work from a distance. You can certainly ask the leader of the group for more precise reasons why the Group of the Reform Party has proposed it. However, since this proposal was on the table, there was no consensus in the Bureau, we must vote through it in the large Chamber. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U11	Thank you. Well, we just got really smart. We learned that in order to keep schools open, it is necessary to send the Riigikogu to teleworking. Well, that's a brilliant connection. But my question is, what are these compelling reasons? We are now seeing, looking around this Chamber, that the Riigikogu is fully operational. We have three fully vaccinated MPs here who have recently suffered from corona but are still able to work. What are these compelling reasons? After all, no political group has now become inactive. Has the Reform Party become unable to work and therefore wants remote hearings?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U12	Thank you. As I said, the compelling reasons we discussed on the board are the current epidemiological situation in the country and the Government of the Republic's recommendation to work at a distance if possible. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U13	Thank you. Well, I was the board member who did not agree with this decision, because I did not really see these compelling reasons. And the fact that the government is recommending teleworking is still a question. We have Prime Minister Kaja Kallas saying that it will send the wrong signal to society if we start making a vaccination damage fund. What kind of signal do we send to society now if we are an organisation where not only Riigikogu ambassadors but all employees, over 90% have been vaccinated, part, as has already been pointed out, even the third round, but we still do not dare to work? Doesn't the vaccination work at all, yet you have to be afraid of the corona all the time? And if so, why is the government firing people from the Defence Forces, people from the police and nurses from hospitals who are not willing to be vaccinated if this vaccination is of no use to you, still can't work?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U14	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that we have a real desire to discuss this subject seriously. The substantive debate on these issues 'I believe that these following questions also relate in many respects to this, this forum and this opportunity we have in other channels, including here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, among other things. [[Voices in the hall.]] Easy! Can I maybe finish before you continue with your big grumble? There is, of course, an opportunity to discuss it in the large Chamber of Riigikogu, an overall epidemiological situation, as well as measures to improve one or another situation. Now, what we are currently discussing is the proposal of the Reform Party Group, which was discussed in the Bureau and which did not find consensus in the Bureau. With procedural questions, we can discuss issues concerning the procedure for conducting the sitting. Now we are discussing whether we are voting or not. The Rules of Procedure provide that if there is no consensus within the Governing Board, it must be decided in the large Chamber. The great hall must take a stand. When the great hall takes a position... Before we even discuss what this position is, you are trying to say that the Riigikogu should not go to a remote sitting. We have different proposals from the political groups. In order to understand the will of the Grand Hall and the Riigikogu, it is necessary to vote through it. So I call on you to really focus on the fact that the large hall of the Riigikogu is voting, to decide whether or not the large hall works with remote participation, and then, if the large hall of the Riigikogu has decided, for example, to continue working in the ordinary form, we can continue the work. If the grand hall of the Riigikogu has decided to work in the form of a remote session, we will go to remote sessions tomorrow and continue our work. There's no way that our work is going to stop. So I suggest, however, that we not focus on the details of the content on procedural issues, but, above all, that we go to the vote and then we can continue to decide. Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U15	Thank you. Of course the Riigikogu votes, it is our home and functioning...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U16	Mr. Pierce, I apologize for a moment. Respectables! In fact, if you want to argue with each other, Mr Mihkelson, Mrs Helme and everyone else, please do so outside the hall. Then we can focus here on the procedure so that we can go to the vote. Mr. Fieldace, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U17	Thank you. Of course, the Riigikogu will vote on this, there is no doubt about that. But the Riigikogu cannot vote on any matter unless we know the content of this matter. You have refused to convey this content to us. For what reason did the Reform Party make such a proposal, how have they justified it? What you are saying is that we should go and ask the Chairman of the Reform Party Group, come on, that is absurd, such things cannot be brought to the Riigikogu. [[Pick a buzz in the hall.]] And the other thing is, if you find, as you claimed... Mr President, I will direct my question to you, please, don't talk to Ligi there. And if you find... Hey, Mr. Ligi, this isn't your place to be behind that remote control, come away!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U18	Mr. Fieldace, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U19	If the Reform Party finds that in a situation where more than 90% of the members of the Riigikogu have been vaccinated, but contact work must be banned, go to teleworking regardless, then I will ask whether the Reform Party acknowledges by this that these vaccination passports do not apply. Does this mean that all these restrictions in the wider society that have been created must also be lifted?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U20	Thank you. Since you asked what the Reform Party was proposing, I am happy to read it. Mr. Ernits, I would be happy to continue to lead now. [[P. Ernits from the scene: Yes, but you could keep quiet.]] Yeah, I'm sure I'll keep it quiet, that's what you can do about it. I was just pointing out. Hey, ladies and gentlemen, really! If we want to hold this debate here, everyone who wants to discuss it with each other will be able to do it outside these walls and this door, but if you want to discuss here what we have on the agenda, please listen. Okay. The proposal of the Reform Party to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu was as follows. "The spread of the COVID-19 virus is high in Estonia and the government has asked all employers to apply teleworking whenever possible. The level of vaccination of Riigikogu employees and ambassadors is high, but Parliament is an example of its behaviour for other institutions and companies. We also have experience of implementing successful teleworking. In view of the above, the Reform Party Group proposes that the work of the Riigikogu at this session be conducted in the form of remote sessions. " That was the proposal, and we must vote on it because we did not reach a consensus on it. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U21	Thank you, good manager. You say that there are compelling reasons why the Riigikogu must go to teleworking and do so right now, not waiting three days, as provided for by the law. Please indicate what are the specific facts and numbers that prove this compelling reason. If you're saying that it's just an epidemic situation, it's far too abstract a term to actually show this compelling need.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U22	Thank you, Mr. Weightep! Ladies and gentlemen, once again: we do not know the outcome of this vote. I suggest we take a position in the Riigikogu Hall and then we will also find out whether or not the large Riigikogu Hall wants far-out sessions. At the moment, I sense from all your speeches that you think that the great hall of the Riigikogu makes this decision to go to meetings with remote participation. As far as the epidemiological situation is concerned, as Head of the Riigikogu I certainly have my own position at the moment, but I am not here to express my personal position, I am here to chair the sitting of the Riigikogu. However, I would remind you that when the special situation was announced some time ago in Estonia, the epidemiological situation was significantly [less complex] when looking at the number of infections. Today, we have significantly higher numbers of infections and, consequently, the epidemiological situation in the country is relatively difficult. Consequently, I have understood that the Reform Party Group has also requested far-reaching sessions that we may have in the Riigikogu. Mr. Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U23	Thank you, Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the Riigikogu. What is happening here is quite grotesque rape of Parliament and, from all angles, contrary to the way in which Parliament's work is organised. Last week, as far as I know, the House of Elders met, where most political groups did not support the organisation of a remote session. Now around the corner, if the consensus principle did not achieve this logic, it would be pushed through by a majority vote. I will protest against this in the most categorical way possible. Of course, you are currently going behind the epidemiological situation with this logic, but the real reason is, we know perfectly well that putting Parliament back on the hybrid sessions will, in reality, also take much more important advantage of Parliament's monitoring of the government in this corona crisis. This is what we have seen from the spring and summer cycle of remote sessions. I think it is no coincidence that, in the run-up to the important drafts [debates] that are going to take place in this Parliament, which will certainly lead to long and serious sittings, you want to use this weapon, the weapon of turning Parliament back. That's the real reason. And the most grotesque thing is that you are talking about the risk of spreading the virus in a situation where we are allowed to have entertainment events with up to 5,000 people in the country. In such a situation, you will find it reasonable to close Parliament. For two weeks, the scientific council has made proposals to the government concerning various events...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U24	Mr. Reinsalu, a question, please! Mr. Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U25	Do not interrupt me, please, Mr President of the sitting.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U26	I have the right to interrupt you if we don't get to the question. You've been talking for two minutes now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U27	What I just want to ask is that, I am sorry, Mr President of the sitting, if, on behalf of your Bureau, now that the Bureau has discussed this and has broken down in the vote, you are talking about the epidemiological situation, then I am asking very simply: what evidence-based approach do you have at the moment that Parliament is precisely to be shut down in this viral crisis? The inn stays open and we close Parliament! I would just ask you to tell me which data and what expert opinion you are relying on, that it is precisely the exclusive closure of Parliament that should take place now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U28	Mr Reinsalu, as far as I know, you have received legal education in the same way at the University of Tartu. One part of legal education is also to know what is in the text of the law. I believe you know the rules of procedure and the rules of procedure that the Riigikogu's remote sitting does not deprive a member of the Riigikogu of any right, but leaves him with all the same rights that are in this large hall. There will be no shut-off of parliament, otherwise the Riigikogu Board would certainly not have even considered it if in any way the work of the large Chamber and the rights of the Member had been threatened. No, it's not. Each Member shall enjoy exactly the same rights in this large Chamber or in a hybrid form when holding a remote sitting. [[Urmas Reinsalu comments on the floor.]] Mr. Reinsalu, I'll answer you. Mr Reinsalu, do you want to hear my answer or do you not want to listen? Okay. Furthermore, if Mr Reinsalu, as a Member of Parliament, has the desire to come to Parliament during a sitting with remote participation, Parliament's technical staff will allow it. For anyone who wishes to come to this Chamber during a remote session, this possibility is guaranteed, as was the case during previous long-distance sessions, as was the case this time. Elik, I would advise you all to disregard these arguments that the Parliament should be shut down or something like that. Parliament will continue its work in exactly the same way and with exactly the same rights as Parliament is working here in the form of a sitting without remote participation. If the remote participation session allows our risk groups to work from a distance, then this can be decided, as we see now, because the Riigikogu Board did not reach a consensus, the grand hall of the Riigikogu and this decision I would very much like to vote on. But we need to go through these procedural questions. I very much hope that the questions you are going to ask have already been answered in many ways. Mr. Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U29	Thank you, Mr President. You mentioned the number of infections and the emergency situation. You could have mentioned the percentage of vaccination in this regard. However, I still find it incomprehensible that it has not come out of the questions and, above all, the answers, which are the substantive reasons that Parliament's work must be reorganized in this way. Whether it is effective or comparable to other forms of work, it is not really that important. We have to make a decision, essentially, by drawing lots. I ask you more precisely: is there a risk assessment that says that it is precisely by changing Parliament's working arrangements that we are somehow solving a problem? Is there a threat assessment?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U30	Thank you. As I said, the epidemiological situation and the recommendation to work at a distance if possible were discussed on the Board of the Riigikogu. On the basis of these decisions, we came to this hall because we did not find consensus on the Board of the Riigikogu. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U31	Thank you, good vice chairman. With regard to the implementation of the sitting and for the sake of clarity, I have a few questions about how our future work will be organised. You've already made six recommendations at this point. The first one was to ask Mart Võrguship, but Mart Võrguship doesn't seem to be here. That's why the questions are. Does the Reform Party Group then carry out an epidemiological assessment? And if, for example, there is going to be some kind of school break, you can also propose this possibility, because the law does not forbid us to hold remote sessions. Now, another unique and extremely agile proposal is this: let's put out the lights and we can say that we actually have a film festival for blind sittings here, which means that we should not disperse, but we can be calm. It's not a question of the fact that maybe the network ship is just missing the phone with this corona proof, and now we have to go to a remote hearing for that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U32	Thank you. They weren't procedural in any way. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U33	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Please still open the reasons why you are proposing this or the Reform Party is proposing this. I would remind you that last Tuesday the Riigikogu's body of elders was held, where the Estonian Conservative People's Party, the Fatherland Party and the representatives of the Centre Party were clearly opposed to going to remote sessions. I understand that one party in the board has changed its mind in the meantime, but please open the background again. On the basis of the arguments that went through it, we clearly realised that the majority of political parties still opposed it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U34	Thank you. The large hall of the Riigikogu can show whether the positions held by the members of the Riigikogu and the political groups in the body of parents continue to be the same. If so, the Riigikogu will continue in the normal form, if the members of the Riigikogu wish to go into the form of remote sessions, then we will go into the form of remote sessions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U35	Good manager! Let me remind you once again that this could change again. The chairman's job is to keep the hall quieter so he can hear. You can hear it now, but it can change again. When you said we'd decide first, and then we'd look forward, it's actually wise to discuss first and then decide. Why does the Reform Party act like a fool to decide first and then maybe discuss it? But the key question is: are there the most vulnerable ambassadors in the Reform Party, that is why the Reform Party has come up with such a drastic proposal to take the entire Riigikogu to teleworking? Is that it? How many of these extremely vulnerable ambassadors are there among the members of the Reform Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U36	Thank you. This has nothing to do with the procedure for holding the sitting. As chair of the sitting, I will not assess the health of any political group, either the Reform Party or the EKRE or the Centre Party or the Socialist Group. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U37	Thank you, Mr President. As I understand it, basically the conduct of our sittings is still a matter of law, and we cannot make any arbitrary decisions here. In principle, there is a possibility to go to remote participation for important reasons, which is § 13 (2) 62 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, and these are the only conditions in which it is possible to organise remote participation. Fortunately, there is also the decision of the Riigikogu's board of directors on what provides for the convening of a sitting with a remote participation, and the words "weighing reason" are also set out there. [Decision] paragraph 2 states that a substantial reason is that at least one fifth of the composition of the Riigikogu, or at least one political group, cannot come to the Riigikogu because of an objectively justified obstacle, or the physical assembly of the Riigikogu would jeopardise the continuity of the Riigikogu. These are the only parameters in which a remote sitting can be convened, which are the only compelling reasons. Which of these is the reason for this remotely-owned hearing?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U38	Thank you. The Board of the Riigikogu brought the proposal of the Reform Party Group to decide on the large hall, as we did not find consensus in the Riigikogu Board, I will say it again. Whether the grand hall of the Riigikogu decides one way or the other, we will find out when the large hall has voted. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U39	Yes, but I'm sorry, that's the problem, that once we say that the important reason is that 20 ambassadors cannot work or one political group is unable to work, then the great hall of the Riigikogu cannot vote that yes, 20 ambassadors cannot work, but first there must be 20 ambassadors who cannot work, or one political group who says that they cannot participate in the work because they have delegates who are unable to work or out of line. None of this is objectively empirically in front of us right now. The second problem is that we have had to go to sittings with remote participation in the past, but it has, however, taken place with a certain period of notice. This period of notice has, among other things, had to be done through public information channels. Today we have a decision under our noses that was made ten minutes after nine. The Board of the Riigikogu met, concluded that there is no consensus, and at 10 o'clock it will be placed in our noses in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu. When will these groups then be able to shape their position? In fact, we all know that the political groups of the Riigikogu also have working time for the political group on Wednesday mornings. At least we should have waited, given the opportunity for the political groups of the Riigikogu to take a stand at their group meeting tomorrow morning and then decide whether or not we will go on teleworking from next week. There are objectively no valid compelling reasons, and in addition, ambassadors are raped here on the ground to take decisions on the run in matters they hear on the move. This is not in accordance with our own rules and rules.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U40	Thank you. What Mr Grünthal referred to, I do not know if I will find it quickly now, but, by memory, I will say that there is "in particular," which means that it is not a closed list. That's one. Secondly, once again, in order to find out the opinion of the large hall on whether or not to go to remote sittings, this is the decision of the large hall in that case. Thirdly, in making this decision, if the members of the Riigikogu should decide that the Riigikogu is working in the form of remote sessions, all members of the Riigikogu who wish to continue working in this Chamber will have exactly the same right. Perhaps we are not restricting the right of members of the Riigikogu to come to this hall. So in this sense, if, for example, the EKRE Group wishes to come in the corpore hall, then there is this possibility. With this decision, we are giving today the opportunity to work in the form of a remote hearing for those who feel greater risk. I hope that these three explanations will now give us sufficient understanding that we can go to the vote as soon as possible. But there seem to be a lot of procedural questions. However, I would like to limit myself to the conduct of the sitting and not to ask these endless substantive questions, because as the chair of the sitting of the Riigikogu, I have to follow the rules of procedure and the rules of procedure. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U41	Thank you, Mr President. In my opinion, what the Board of the Riigikogu has put in place is very ugly and very bad practice that you have practiced in the Riigikogu. First of all, I have a very specific question as to how the Bureau voted. A three-member board who voted in favour, who is not supposed to be secret, which is probably a protocol, but the protocol has not yet reached us. There was a body of elders last week. There were representatives of the Centre Party Group, representatives of the EKRE and representatives of the Fatherland against going to the remote session. Has anyone changed their position now? And if last week the Bureau considered it necessary to discuss this issue with the body of elders and the majority opinion developed there, why did the Bureau now, on an urgent basis, when the proposal of the Reform Party arrived yesterday, even without informing the political groups and inviting the Assembly of Elders? Why is the board acting so unsystematic? Has the role of the body of elders been exhausted and we will no longer pursue this practice in the future, that if we do not get a proper decision in the body of elders, we will still go through the board and vote by majority vote in the large hall? In my opinion, this is also not in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act, because we cannot rely on the reasons set out in the Law today. Parliament is able to gather, and it does not pose any threat. This is particularly ugly and, in my opinion, a bad example in a situation where schools are open, taverns are open, entertainment, sports competitions are taking place, cultural events are taking place. The government has emphasised and the Reform Party has emphasised: we will keep society open once you have been vaccinated. We are the most vaccinated part of Estonian society here, and we are setting a very bad example. This is obviously not a remote hearing, but a convenience session. I would like to add so much that we have practically not had a remote hearing that would have been smooth. It's always been interrupted, repeated with questions, it's not appropriate. [It has not been] such a well-oiled hearing. [It] has been a meeting of problems, it has been an emergency solution for the Riigikogu. Why we're doing this now is completely beyond my understanding.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U42	Yeah, thanks! In the body of elders, we really discussed this situation. The Riigikogu Board discussed it again this morning. As for the fact that you asked for the result of the vote, we did not raise our hand. But Martin Helme also said in this hall that he opposed it. I, on the other hand, remember supporting the members of the Riigikogu to work in the form of teleshopping if necessary and with a sense of risk. The Chairman of the Riigikogu was rather of the opinion today that it should be voted through in this Chamber. So that's where we are, that's what we're trying to do. Once again, we do not deprive any of the members of the Riigikogu or the political groups as a whole of the right to continue working in this Chamber. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U43	Good manager! Can't the truth be that this proposal is really about the laziness and comfort of the coalition ambassadors? Instead of climbing up to Toompea on a cold November day, sitting under a blanket at home, drinking hot tea and participating in a remote session, it would be much nicer. Can't it be?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U44	Thank you. I believe that all 101 members of the Riigikogu are doing their job with a heart and a great deal of commitment. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U45	Thank you. I'm gonna ask you a question. After all, how to say the debate is justified and it is not a secret that I asked similar questions in our group, but in the end we came to the decision that has come to the paper. Am I right to understand this debate in the Bureau so that, first of all, the aim would be to hold such fixed sessions, point one? Point two, no one shall prohibit any member of the Riigikogu, any political group, from holding these sessions. Everyone is welcome to this hall. And point three, there are a lot of people among us who either have seriously ill people at home, or just risk groups, who made our decision that way, or who themselves have been in new health problems. And this is definitely not a party division. Didn't we make that decision to protect a small minority? Medical background, too. We've begun to share efficiency doses. Everyone now knows that the strength of the vaccine will fall in time. Am I right or can you specify whether we did not make this decision this way?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U46	Thank you. In this sense, of course, you have the right to, as I have repeatedly referred to here, that members of the Riigikogu who wish to continue working in a large hall are guaranteed this possibility. In the same way, with this decision, we give the opportunity to attend a sitting of the Riigikogu in the form of a remote session for people who belong to a risk group or who feel that their loved ones are at risk. So in that sense, you're right, yes. Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U47	Thank you. I would also like to clarify the procedure. I would like to stress that there is work going on at the long-distance hearing. There have been statements in this Chamber and questions about why we don't want to work. It's the job we want to do. We have members of the Riigikogu and members of the Riigikogu have family members who are in the risk group due to long-term illness, and Jürgen Ligi also touched on this topic, and we want to protect them because we know that, unfortunately, vaccinated can carry the infection forward. But, ladies and gentlemen, you have all stressed here that health data is confidential. So we're not going to name people by name. And once again, we want to work. Finally, many protesters in this Chamber have themselves voted in favour of the organisation of remote committee sessions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U48	Thank you for this final remark. In the large Chamber of Riigikogu, we do not really decide on the organisation of committees. The Board of the Riigikogu has recommended that committees work the same distance, if possible, and many committees, as far as I know, do so. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U49	Thank you, Mr President. I ask that the Reform Party's proposal was to go to a remote session from 9 November to 26 November. You customized and made it from November 10th to November 25th. Was this your personal proposal, which is now going to be voted on in Parliament, a discussion in the Bureau, or on the basis of which law of the House and Rules of Procedure did you change the proposal of the Reform Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U50	Thank you. It was indeed the decision of the Bureau that we can do this no sooner than the 10th and no later than the 25th. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U51	Good manager! [[There's noise in the hall.]] No, I'll just wait as long as it's quiet. That's my question. As an ambassador, I would also like to have a smooth connection from the country, just as it should be in the e-state, to Parliament, but not to be afraid at any moment of whether it hangs or does not hear or see or to turn off the picture, because then suddenly the voice will pass. Why does the Reform Party want to put the Earth Ambassador in a more difficult position, as Mr Seeder said, as a 'emergency solution', in a situation where we are really one of the best vaccinated working groups?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U52	Thank you. Peter Ernits, first of all, the great hall has not spoken of its position. Once again, I come to the point that the great hall must state its position. When the big hall has said its position and decided, for example, that we are going to a distance, you will be welcome to this briefing tomorrow at 12:00 and to the hearing starting at 14:00. So there's no problem and you're also welcome here. Helle-Moonika Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Kalle Grünthal's question, where he referred to the weighty reasons set out in the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of our Riigikogu, you replied that the weighty reasons that are stated there are "in particular" that there is no definite list. All right! But what I ask is, is there any arbitrary reason in particular, for example, that the representatives of the Reform Party and the Centre Party do not dare to go to work, so may this be the real content of today's vote and, if so, the apology of what message it sends to society?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U54	Thank you. I read the proposal from the Reform Party to you. Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U55	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. You have raised some arguments here that did not serve as arguments. Firstly, of course, your party is one of the main demands of going to a long-distance hearing. But what's going on? You fire people with cold stomachs from the Defence Forces, favored militias, policemen, people who are, I don't know, risked their lives on many missions, and you're the first to desert. You talk about keeping society open, kicking hundreds of people out of jobs, and then you run away first. It's not convincing at all. The second argument you made was to set an example, okay? Exhibit! And at the same time, you allow the PÖFF to take place at the same time. After all, the height of the epidemic that you have mentioned should be at hand, we are the first in the world. You let the PÖFF happen, and then you say that, oh, let's hide, let's close Parliament. The messages don't come together in any way, and you won't convince us if your messages are so harali that with one hand you do one thing and another. In this way, I do not think we can begin to close Parliament's work in any way, because if you do not believe that this is the basic function of the state, then of course it can be done in a different and a third way. In any case, a remote hearing at this vaccination level is not convincing at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U56	Thank you. We will not close Parliament's work; all Members will be able to continue working exactly the same way. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U57	Thank you, Mr President. I must congratulate you on answering my question, which are these compelling reasons, in essence. So thank you so much for that! You also explained that, of course, you consulted your good advisors at the table there, that in addition to these two points there is a reference to the word 'in particular'. I would now ask Members to explain how you translate this word 'in particular' so that we can understand what it means.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U58	Thank you. That is what the word "primarily" means in Estonian. "In particular" means that the list given in the following paragraphs gives the main focus, but also provides an opportunity for other situations. And right now, these other situations are in front of us. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U59	Thank you. I'd like to continue in exactly the same place. The same list, which is not very long, provides us with two examples of when there are compelling reasons for going to the Riigikogu for teleworking. This actually gives us a standard, and the standard is that one of the political groups of the Riigikogu cannot work or one fifth of the Riigikogu cannot physically work in the Riigikogu hall. This 'in particular' has indeed been put in there for us to have some flexibility in organising our work, but we have been given a standard. With these two examples, what's on this list, we have a standard. We have been trying here for 45 minutes now to understand what, based on the word 'especially', the problem of this standard in some political group or in our large hall, which does not allow us to work in the form of a physical contact session. But I am still going to ask again what I asked in my previous question, that if we are to have three days' notice, then it has a point, and that is the idea, so that the political groups can reorganize their work so that the political groups can shape their position. At the meeting of the Riigikogu's Board of Directors at nine o'clock in the morning, it was clear in ten minutes that we were unable to form a common position on this proposal. The trial started 50 minutes later. The political groups of the Riigikogu have not been able to shape their position. When, then, will the political groups of the Riigikogu have to be able to shape their position in order to vote on what we want to do here soon, because the work of the Riigikogu has been redesigned around the position of the political groups?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U60	Thank you. Indeed, we had this debate at nine o'clock, and we started sitting at ten o'clock. I believe that, even now, the political groups have been able to shape their position during this debate, and I also believe that if, for example, the EKRE Group wishes to continue working here in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu, the EKRE Group will be able to shape its position today, tomorrow, also in the days to come. So, indeed, you, Martin, as a member of the board of directors, do not stand in the way of any member of the Riigikogu or any political group meeting here at the Riigikogu House. We all have that freedom. So I call on you and all the other political groups to discuss the situation calmly in your political groups, and if you want to continue working here, the Chancellery of the Riigikogu will ensure that each political group can continue its work here. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U61	Thank you. It's very enlightening what we have here. Firstly, of course, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this debate here is not a group meeting, it is not an EKRE group meeting or any other group meeting. This is still a very important observation right now. Our group has not been able to discuss this, has not been able to shape a position and, in fact, the maladministration you are presenting here is what we are protesting against. Now the second point is that you have a very mistaken view that, if your group has shaped its position, that position is just as mandatory for everyone else, and if they may not agree right away, we will still put it to the vote. Let him vote back if he wants, but we've decided, and we'll push our decision through. I bow to your determination by quoting the classics. Thirdly, it must still be pointed out that, in essence, you acknowledge that the vaccination campaign that you have been vigorously involved in triggering people, threatening people, etc. has failed. This does not actually have any positive impact on the health situation and therefore the vaccinated, 95%-vaccinated Riigikogu must go to teleworking. This is a very excellent testimony to another failure of your government. But my proposal is very specific. My proposal today is to withdraw this vote from the agenda, to give the political groups the opportunity to shape their position tomorrow morning and come back to the large Chamber tomorrow with a motion for a vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U62	Thank you for this proposal, Mr Helme. Indeed, last week, Mr Seeder also referred to this, the body of elders gathered. Rene Kokk, the vice-chairman of your group, also pointed out that the body of elders had gathered. Rene Kokk last week said the EKRE Group's position that you did not support remotely-owned sessions. The same position was expressed today by Martin Helme on the Board of the Riigikogu. Your colleagues in the group have expressed this in the same way. I do not hesitate or doubt that the position of the EKRE Group is not to support remote participation. The position to be taken by the great hall, we will see when we get to the vote. It cannot be ruled out that the grand hall of the Riigikogu decides that we will continue to work in this Chamber. Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U63	Thank you, good manager. After all, the question is not really whether we are meeting in the Riigikogu [the hall] and whether it is allowed to us, but is still a question of the responsibility of both the board and each member of the Riigikogu to our society. That's the question. This means that if we say all the time that vaccination gives us the confidence to work together and solve issues together, which is most effective as a group to do this thing instead of teleworking, then it means that we have a responsibility accordingly. I call on every member of the Riigikogu, because I know that you will not take it back, will not direct it for tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, but in a little while we will vote on it, which means that every member of the Riigikogu will still have to think, under his responsibility, about what signal he is giving to society if he is in favour of leaving this hall and going to the comfort zone.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U64	Thank you. Indeed, every member of the Riigikogu makes this decision by pressing the button and can also communicate it on his own channels or when a journalist should ask for it. Mr. Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U65	Thank you. We have now realised that Parliament does not have the problem of physical gathering; it can physically gather. These reasons, which are set out in the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, are not the basis. The basis is some kind of "primarily" and the reasons behind this word, which I have not fully understood. But in the text of questions and answers it can be said that it is because of the protection of human health, the protection of the health of members of the Riigikogu, because the general epidemic situation is what it is, and there may be sick people in the homes of many members of the Riigikogu, and in order to protect the health of members of the Riigikogu, it is necessary to go to a remote session. If that is the case and we make this decision today, it is an extremely cynical message to society that the health and protection of members of the Riigikogu is more important than the protection of the health of teachers-students in schools and the rest of society, which is not so important that we [they] close. I think it is extremely cynical and it is completely disproportionate in this context. But this is an assessment and I will say once again that I believe that this vote today is not in accordance with the law of the house and rules of procedure; the Riigikogu cannot and should not just vote by majority, but should be based on the law. But I have a concrete proposal. As our group is not represented on the Riigikogu's board and we have not been able to participate in this debate, Jürgen Ligi pointed out that there was a long and thorough discussion in the Reform Party, he also had some different opinions and positions, so at least take the chairman's break and do as it has been in previous practice that the body of elders has first discussed and shaped the position. Perhaps we will find some kind of consensus there to continue this practice that is currently being violated. If you are not ready for this, give at least to those political groups that have not been represented in the Bureau, who have not been able to shape their position, [opportunity] so that we can gather with the group, discuss and shape our work and position. That is, in my opinion, extremely necessary. Some groups have discussed, some have not, we are in a very different and unequal position here in the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U66	Thank you. I think that if we were to finish all the procedural questions now, which, it seems to me, gives us no added value in terms of content, I think it would be appropriate to take the chairman's break of ten minutes so that the political groups can gather. So I call on my fellow Members to put an end to the procedural issues now and allow the political groups to discuss the situation for ten minutes and then come back without any procedural questions and take a vote. If it's okay with colleagues, I'm ready to do it now. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U67	Good manager! You are constantly hiding behind the fact that the result of the vote is not yet known in advance, and the grand hall of the Riigikogu is still deciding on it. Hey, how naive do you think we are? It would be a wonder if coalition parties had not agreed on how to vote in advance and counted all their votes. Admit it, you've already made that decision in the coalition.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U68	Thank you. It would be a wonder if the EKRE would change its opinion to support a remote sitting. In this sense, I think that the groups have the opportunity to express their position. Mr Seeder asked for more time to think about the group. I think this is a worthy proposal for the President. But I see that there are more questions here all the time, including from the Isamaa Group. If these questions continue and continue, we will be able to sit here for a long time before we reach the vote, and we will not reach today's agenda. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U69	Good manager! As an ambassador, I am still concerned that someone's picture hangs and their voice disappears, and all this, though I would like to participate in the so-called land. But the question is, if we go teleworking on the initiative of the Reform Party now, does that mean that ministers and the Prime Minister can also appear on this screen for us? As we recall, at the time when the work was done, their faces fell, and some pictures were erased or had to be erased. Does this mean that when there are budgetary discussions and other important drafts ahead, that it will also make the situation easier for the government, ministers and the Prime Minister, because it is always possible to hide behind the interruption or disengagement of communication?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U70	Thank you. However, our working arrangements will continue as foreseen in our Rules of Procedure, so that all the same rules will apply. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U71	Thank you, President-in-Office. I will still come back to the weighty reason that the Reform Party makes for the introduction of teleworking, which is a very bad epidemiological situation. But I have some good news for you: according to the latest data, the epidemiological situation is starting to improve, the number of infections has fallen from almost 2,000 to 1700. Krista Fischer also says that the situation is moving firmly towards recovery. Since that is the case, why don't the Reform Party withdraw its request and we can still proceed safely with the sittings?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U72	Yeah. I have a proposition for you too: we're taking out all the procedures. As I said, if we take all the procedures down, I will take ten minutes of the chairman's break, the Isamaa Group and the EKRE Group will be able to gather and the Reform Party Group will also be able to gather, and then perhaps all political groups will indeed shape the same position. Looks like you're gonna have more questions. Well, let's keep it up. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U73	Thank you, Mr President. I very much appreciate your legal knowledge and have often benefited greatly from this knowledge. But now I see a situation where you're slightly compromising your renomee's connection to legal knowledge by putting into practice the wishes of the Reform Party Group. The question is that as a lawyer, you certainly know the basic principles of all three branches of law. Civil law allows for what is not prohibited. The law of punishment prohibits what is forbidden. And the same situation in administration, where we are now: allowed is what is allowed. Maybe now I'm referring to this compelling reason. On the basis of the above, we are, in principle, allowed to switch to a sitting with a remote participation in only two ways, i.e. weighty reasons are listed in this same decision of the Riigikogu Executive Board. What's allowed is what's allowed. We cannot rely here on the principle that this 'in particular' extends this concept. However, I am of the opinion that in two cases it is permissible to convene this remote hearing. Do you agree that the principles of administrative law should now apply here too, which is what is allowed?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U74	Thank you. The decision of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu also defines a point that you have already read: the physical assembly of the Riigikogu would jeopardise the continuity of the Riigikogu's activities. In addition, as I said, 'in particular' has indeed been referred to here, this is what we have discussed here, and this means that it is an open list. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U75	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. You have confirmed here several times today that everyone who wants to come to this hall can come and take part in the court hearings. Are you confirming here and now that, if today's decision is to go to remote sittings, which would be extremely regrettable, all the ministers and everyone who reports the drafts and makes speeches during the procedure, are physically present in this Chamber, so that we can still see these people face to face and do not have a problem, which has been said here several times today, by referring to the past, that Internet connections are poor, etc.? Do you confirm that ministers and other rapporteurs are also physically present in this Chamber, that those who wish to participate in this Chamber can also directly ask these questions to people here on the ground?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U76	While our practice so far has provided that if we work in the form of remote sessions, our guests who must come here will also be able to participate in the form of a remote session. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U77	Thank you. First of all, of course, I would point out that the continuity of the Riigikogu is certainly not at risk if one, two, three or even a few more people are ill. After all, we have had it through the ages that when some people have some family or domestic reasons that they cannot participate in the work of the Riigikogu, neither is the continuity of the Riigikogu at risk. But I have a much more substantive procedural question. We actually have a deep difference of opinion as to whether we are currently acting in accordance with the management procedure adopted on the basis of the rules of procedure and the rules of procedure when we make this decision, referring to a compelling reason. We have a fundamental difference of opinion here as to whether we actually follow the rules of procedure. We had recently, in September, a case where the Riigikogu adopted a draft, where it changed the dates of entry into force, and the President sent it back with a reference to the violation of the Rules of Procedure. This meant that this bill had to be read again three times. We have 25 items on the agenda tomorrow, and there are four today. If we now go to teleworking and we should have a situation where some political groups turn to the President or even to the Court and say that these drafts have not been dealt with in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, are we in a situation where we have more than 30 laws that need to be discussed again? Is it really so real that we want to take that risk?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U78	Thank you. As far as I can interpret the right, it is difficult for me to anticipate this danger, because the rules of procedure of the Riigikogu and the way in which the Riigikogu works are the right of the Riigikogu to organise itself. If the Riigikogu decides to hold remote sessions, this means, among other things, that the Riigikogu will continue to work in the same way. Once again: there is no limit to the decision-making of the Riigikogu, and all the decisions taken in this Chamber or in the form of a remote session are exactly the same legal force. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U79	Good manager! I have to admit that I have little personal objection to the remote hearing, but I sense that there has been talk for an hour now, and I do not think the real reason is why some party, or today's coalition, wants to have a remote session. It is not illness, it is the drafts in the Committee on Monetary Affairs: one is the draft law on income tax, where there are very many amendments that the Commission is going to discuss today, and the next is that next Wednesday the state budget will also be discussed at second reading. When they're taken to a remote hearing, it's really convenient to have a night hearing, you can sleep and get up and press a button out of bed, so we've been on the screen. Have I understood correctly that the reason is actually in some drafts?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U80	Thank you. I don't get it that way. I have understood that members of the Riigikogu have exactly the same rights, and this has nothing to do with any comfort. I understand that some members of the Riigikogu are also more comfortable working in this hall. So let's not in any way tie the Riigikogu drafts to whether or not we are at a remote hearing. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U81	Thank you. [Continues] to the question of a good colleague, Rene Koka, where he discussed the topic that if we are at a remote session, members of the Riigikogu do not have to attend all physically, it will also extend to members of the government. I have this dubious feeling of feeling, well, if I continue to think about Aivar Koka here, where he pointed out certain doubts, then I also raise certain doubts that the Reform Party and the Centre Party really want to create a situation where their ministers should no longer come here physically. Although we may indeed come here with our group, but there is no longer Kaja Kallas or Liina Kersna, to whom we would really like to ask very critical questions about the things that have taken place in the meantime, when we had remote sessions of the Riigikogu and when we could not ask them anything. Is it really how I say, the reason why you're running these long-distance sessions so badly that your incompetent ministers can create a safe environment behind a screen where they'd be happy and comfortable to sit and get all these answers from their advisers and assistants, but here they're all alone, completely naked in their inability? And that's what you want to avoid.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U82	Thank you. The President of the sitting does not comment on any theory of conspiracy, although the President of the sitting reminds members of the Riigikogu that, as ministers answer all questions both at the remote session and at the ordinary session, so all members of the Riigikogu can communicate with each other in exactly the same way and in exactly the same rights. All rights are exactly the same both during the remote session and during the ordinary session. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U83	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have one such principled question for you as a liberal politician. Liberals often love to emphasise how a majority decision must not roll over the will of a minority. At this point in time, the situation seems to be where those Members who wish to continue their normal contact work in this Chamber are outnumbered. Since liberals all the time point out that we must not cross the minority, can we now assume that, if there is a minority view that we are in this Chamber, liberals will take this into account, or how can we understand it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U84	The Riigikogu works on the basis of the decision made by 101 members of the Riigikogu. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U85	Good manager! I'm gonna ask my simple question a second time. If the Riigikogu now goes on teleworking on a proposal from the Reform Party, and now comes the question to which I ask a direct answer, I am not going to speculate here who wants to be naked or not, does that mean that the members of the government and the Prime Minister may not come here from now on, but also appear on the screen, whoever else is behind the screen and does this picture hang or doesn't work? A simple question: can the members of the government, including the Prime Minister, from now on, not come to the hall, but look at us from the screen?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U86	Thank you. I replied to Rene Koka and I also say to you that, in the case of a remote session, we have indeed had such practice that, like members of the Riigikogu, our guests can take part in a remote session. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U87	Thank you, Mr President. I'll come back to weighty reasons. You said such a thing that this 'in particular' means that this list is not exhaustive. However, I sincerely hope that this was your 'language error', because the principle that what is allowed is still valid in administration. I don't think you said that very seriously. But you also referred to my question on point 2.2 that the physical assembly of the Riigikogu would jeopardise the continuity of the Riigikogu. Could you please explain to me what specific risks you think are on this list so that we, as Members of Parliament, can understand this too?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U88	Thank you. I answered your question, you said that there are two [reasons], I said that there is a third reason, and there is also a 'in particular' point. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U89	Ah! Thank you. Sorry, I didn't notice!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U90	Yeah, you're up. Indeed, even the microphone was already on for a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U91	Yes, thank you! Thank you very much. You referred to the proposal of the Reform Party, which said that the Riigikogu meeting would jeopardise the functioning of the Riigikogu. Nearly 95% of the members of the Riigikogu, as well as the staff, have been vaccinated. After all, we should basically be the safest group and place in Estonia at all. But perhaps you will specify these dangers so that we can get a broader background picture, especially in a situation where the government has made exceptions to certain events and where there is no difference as to whether the participants have been vaccinated or not. What kind of signal are you sending, and what kind of danger are we going to be exposed to here?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U92	Thank you. I just answered that question. I recommend that you listen to the debate held here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. Mr. Grünthal asked, and I answered him and I will answer you again. Mr Grünthal referred to two bases, I merely referred to the accuracy of the fact that there is also a third basis in this Bureau decision, in addition to the word 'in particular'. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U93	Thank you, good manager. I would like to come to a very fundamental question. What we are discussing here, and what we are going to vote on, is the proposal of the Reform Party and you are currently a member of the Reform Party Group as the chair of the sitting of the Riigikogu. We have such a term as "infringement of an operating restriction." In other words, shouldn't you have withdrawn yourself from the position of manager in this matter from the outset? You have failed to be impartial, it has now become clear. Can we therefore at some point, for example, be in the position that the vote that we are going to hold here under your leadership may be null and void?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U94	Thank you. As the chair of the sitting of the Riigikogu, I perform the functions of the President of the sitting. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U95	Good chairman of the sitting! Paragraph 891 (7) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu states this: "The President of the Riigikogu shall inform the members of the Riigikogu, through the media, at least three days before the session takes place. In the case of weight reasons, the period of notice may be shorter. " Now, in a situation where the notice period is shorter, how does the Chairman of the Riigikogu report it to the members of the Riigikogu through the media, and how does it coincide with the idea of this Law on Home and Working Procedures? Please explain!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U96	Thank you for that question. This point was indeed addressed in the Riigikogu Board and the President of the Riigikogu asked the press service of the Riigikogu as soon as this decision was adopted in one way or the other, to report it. That's one. Secondly, 82 members of the Riigikogu registered for today's sitting, at the moment I see that 87 members of the Riigikogu have registered for attendance. Perhaps the 87 members of the Riigikogu who participate in this hall will be informed immediately. This item is primarily intended to enable members of the Riigikogu to really know. And even if a member of the Riigikogu does not find out for any reason, a member of the Riigikogu will come to the meeting tomorrow as usual and will be able to participate here as usual. Mr. Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U97	Thank you, Mr President. I will return to these compelling reasons again. We probably have no dispute about two points, they are point 2.1, at least one fifth of the composition of the Riigikogu, etc., and point 2.2, the physical assembly of the Riigikogu. In your opinion, there is a third option here, or 'in particular'. I find it a little incomprehensible that, if, as a general principle of administrative law, restrictions or other regulations cannot be imposed, unless it is stated in the legislative act, because it jeopardises the observance of constitutional values, administrative law will be subject to a discretionary decision. Perhaps, then, I would like to know whether, in your opinion, these principles no longer apply to your best legal knowledge, that administrative law also has the possibility of imposing special restrictions by any discretionary decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U98	Thank you. We will not impose any restrictions on the members of the Riigikogu to participate in the hearing at a remote session. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U99	Thank you, good vice chairman. Now I'm trying to figure out what might be, let's say, a much more compelling reason. At the moment, the government has not been able to declare a specific situation of either substance, theoretical, medical, or apparent nature. Now that the Riigikogu adopts this [decision], we can also impose restrictions across the state. This, however, is not in fact an exceptional situation, which means that there will be no compensation and no compensation by the State. Does this not give the Riigikogu too much responsibility for the functioning of the general society? And another thing: I would like to note that there is an article in today's Eesti Päevaleht, where Mart Võrklaev writes that the Riigikogu wishes to send a telework. It's more of a personal nature. Has anything happened in the meantime, [after] when this information was sent to the page? What is the weighty difference in these matters just talking about media communication?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U100	Thank you. The Chancellery of the Riigikogu also informs the public, via public media, those members of the Riigikogu who are not present at the time of the vote, after the Riigikogu has adopted the decision. If the Riigikogu does not change its position and we continue the ordinary session, then there is no need to notify anything. If the Grand Chamber of the Riigikogu decides that we are going to a remote session, the Chancellery of the Riigikogu will, of course, inform the Chancellery of this as soon as possible. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U101	Thank you very much, Mr President. Now, what is extremely bad here is that we are currently setting a very negative example for the public in the way in which we deal arbitrarily with the rules, how we actually deal with the imposition of discretionary rights and arbitrary practices. The Rules of Procedure do not provide for the same three-day notice. It is not for nothing that we have been told that there must be extremely compelling reasons to cross this three-day notice. But we are doing this, and I have the impression that it is intended to give society a very impressive and strong signal of how we should actually take a soft and smooth approach to legislation. In this case, I too have this fear, and I am dealing here with the same fact that Mr Helme referred to, and which was also referred to by Ruuben Kaalep and Kalle Grünthal, that, if we take decisions in this Chamber on the basis of such discretionary decisions, then, in fact, given the analogy of law, the analogy of law, the decisions that we will take next in this Chamber, everything is contrary to the Constitution. Here is the question: if it is now clearly understood that this may be contrary to the Constitution, who has the right to complain in order to establish its compatibility with the Constitution or its non-existent status?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U102	Mr. Pulpland, you've had some legal education, too. If the grand chamber of the Riigikogu continues its work with all rights, as it does in the case of a remote session ♪ all members of the Riigikogu have exactly the same rights, I will multiply it for several times, the decisions of the Riigikogu are just as constitutional when they sit in this Chamber and when they take part in the form of a remote session. We did it in the spring. The President did not see any problem with the Riigikogu working in the form of a remote session, and this change in the rules of procedure has been approved by the President. Not disputed. Consequently, the remote session as a form is well accepted by both the large Chamber of the Riigikogu and the President. Let us not dispute whether the decisions taken through a remote hearing are constitutional or not. No problem here, they're constitutional. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U103	Thank you, good manager. There has been quite a lot of talk here now, and it has been very clear in the course of this discussion that, in fact, there is a very thin ice here in connection with this decision. In one of your replies, you said that even if it was notified, but no one in the Riigikogu has received this information, it does not matter, because even if he does not know, he will come as usual. Now we go on from here, the member of the Riigikogu has not received this notification, he will come as usual and he expects, for example, that the members of the government will be here before him as usual in Question Time, but then it turns out that this is not the case. Is this not a violation of the procedure for a member of the Riigikogu and also of the Riigikogu's domestic and operational procedures?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U104	Thank you. No, it's not. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U105	Thank you, Mr President. Now, let's get this situation straight. The political groups of coalition parties want to transfer the Riigikogu to teleworking, either from their own slot and from the comfort of their ministers. At the same time, they are unable to justify what these compelling reasons are for doing so, and they are prepared to cross over from opposition parties' reluctance. Now my question: do you not think that this practice could at some point start working against you? Can't it be that you saw the branch you're sitting on?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U106	Thank you. The large hall of the Riigikogu is governed by the Home and Working Procedures Act. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U107	Good manager! It seems to me that the point is that when discussing unpleasant matters, the format of the remote session gives ministers the opportunity to hide behind the screen. My question is that if my penguinmate, Henn Põlluaas, was the head of the Riigikogu, he did, as far as I know, make sure the ministers actually come here to the Riigikogu Speaker's Office. My question is, now that you're there, what's your position? Are you asking or asking the ministers to come here next week or even physically, or are you suggesting that they be there behind the screen somewhere?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U108	Thank you. My personal preference and recommendation would be for them to come to the speaker's desk. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U109	Thank you, good vice chairman. Well, I'm gonna have to tell you right now that I like physical trials. But I have to say that I like long-distance sessions even more, because long-distance sessions give more extensive and agile opportunities to color their presentations, whether it be light, music, background dancers, whatever. Let us think of the frames! I understand that these frames are made for someone else, it's very hard to catch. But I'm still asking the question that I didn't get an answer to. In turn: if the Riigikogu is sent to a remote session, can't the government make it a good pretext that you see that the Riigikogu has already imposed a restriction on itself, say, movement, so that we can now follow the Riigikogu decision? As a result, the state will not make any moves to compensate for the damage. In this case, are the members of the Riigikogu responsible for this decision if there are economic losses to other companies?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U110	Thank you. As regards all other activities during the remote session, indeed, a member of the Riigikogu also has ethical standards that could be observed in its activities. Whether they are in bed, whether they are dancing, smoking, or something else depends on each one of them. I very much hope that the members of the Riigikogu will take into account that the form of a remote session is exactly the same as any other form of work and that the meeting will take part in polite clothing and not doing anything that should be ashamed of afterwards. So I therefore believe that, just as in this Chamber, members of the Riigikogu have a certain sense that they could dress decently or should dress decently and use polite language, exactly the same rules apply in the form of remote sessions. Now, as far as responsibility is concerned, the Riigikogu still decides on the work of the Riigikogu itself. Mr. Grünthal, you're up again!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U111	Thank you, Mr President. I am currently looking at our Home and Working Procedures Act and § 13 (2) 61 provides for a specific requirement that the Board of the Riigikogu decides on the conduct of the remote participation session of the Riigikogu. Please state the paragraph in the law that governs us, where the rule of delegation of this decision lies to the Riigikogu as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U112	Thank you. This is set out in § 16 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, that if the Board of the Riigikogu cannot agree, the large hall will decide. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U113	Thank you, good vice chairman. Well, that's a little something that's done and meant to be done again. It is now, as you said, that we will decide and then we will think about how we will fill it. Similarly, you referred to ethical standards and [to] be polite. We'll make a decision and then we'll start decorating. Wouldn't it be possible to do, say, a style book, no such thing as what is polite and what is incorrect or not polite? But I would still like to point out that the ambassadors have their own particularities. To what extent does this take into account the particularities of the ambassadors? Or should we be unyieldy, as is the case with the tobacco law, isn't it, that no flavors, only tobacco, and the whole story, apple and pear is forbidden for adults, and is extremely dangerous? Can we get a style book that says pink shirt is okay, but blue shirt isn't okay?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U114	Thank you. No. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U115	Good manager! Did I hear correctly that you said that, in the case of a long-distance hearing, the ambassadors wouldn't be dealing with anything that could be embarrassed about later? Did you refer to Mr Ligi, who was doing something at the sink or anyone else? I didn't exactly hear you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U116	Thank you. I didn't refer to anyone. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U117	Thank you. We're going to a long-distance hearing, well, if that's the way it's gonna be voted on, then it's gonna be a wake-up call. Since we are going to a remote session on the grounds that the epidemiological situation is so bad, in the meantime, if the epidemiological situation is to improve sharply, will the Reform Party come to the Bureau with a new proposal so that we can return to ordinary sessions again before the end of the day?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U118	Thank you. If we decide today that we will be at a long-distance session until 25 November, we will be at a long-distance session until 25 November, and then we will come back to the ordinary session form. If the epidemiological situation changes in the meantime, then, of course, it is possible for the Riigikogu to discuss it according to the established situation. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U119	Thank you, Mr President. I will once again go to my previous question because I did not receive a very specific answer, because not all are lawyers, dozens and dozens of our colleagues in this Chamber and behind the displays may not be the most competent in legal knowledge, as well as those people who might be interested in this issue. We are talking again about the right to complain. The President has emphasised this in one of his decisions that, in the event of a breach of the law on domestic and working procedures, there is a breach of the Constitution. So the decisions that have been taken since then are unconstitutional. If there are now people either in this hall or outside the hall behind the monitor, who think that if we go to a remote hearing in this way, that there are no three-day notice and there are not enough compelling reasons, then there may probably be a violation of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, and if someone now wants to know what his right of appeal is, then as Head of your Riigikogu, please give a guideline which will be able to appeal against the constitutionality of this decision so that it can be verified.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U120	Thank you. The decision we make on our form of work will in no way change anyone's right of appeal. They're still the same. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U121	Thank you, good vice chairman. I will continue from here, where Paul raised the thought of Puustusmaa and Moonika Helme referred exactly to it. I ask theoretically whether, for example, on 16 November, another party will have the opportunity to propose to return to the ordinary session form or whether it is only the Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U122	Thank you. The rights of political groups are not restricted in any way by the President of the sitting of the Riigikogu and the Management Board of the Riigikogu. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U123	Mr President, you said that it would be possible to come back from remote sessions if the epidemiological situation changed. Can you indicate with specific figures, or at least with the precision of the order of magnitude, what direction this epidemiological situation must change in order to justify teleworking in order to justify the termination of teleworking or, in the case of which order of magnitude, these reasons are sufficiently compelling to correspond to the reason given by the Home and Working Procedures Act for teleworking? Without it, all these reasons are purely abstract, let's be honest.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U124	Thank you. I replied to Helle-Moonika Helme that if we decide today to be at a long-distance hearing until 25 November, we will be at a long-distance hearing until 25 November. This does not preclude that, even after that, we may need to continue the remote session, but then the Bureau will have to take this decision. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U125	Good manager! So I don't get the wrong impression, I like the remote hearing too. But as an envoy, I know what it means to have a constant fear, whether or not communication is interrupted in very important places, etc. My question is whether the Board of the Riigikogu has discussed whether communication problems during this remote session, when voted in favour of it, will be significantly reduced or everything will remain the same. Or what has this technical preparation been like this summer, how much has the situation improved?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U126	Thank you. The IT service of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu and the Chancellery of the Riigikogu can also help you specifically if you have problems with Internet connection. However, the possibilities created for us by the Chancellery of the Riigikogu have so far enabled all members of the Riigikogu to attend a remote session. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U127	Thank you. You see, we're still here. I'd love to finish these questions, but I can't. One question, and above all your answers, raises and raises further questions. Ruuben Kaalep raised the question of whether there were any grounds. If we are now voting very clearly on the fact that we want to take the Riigikogu to teleworking on the basis of the epidemiological situation, there are certain criteria, for example, the level of infection, the number of cases, etc., on the basis of which the Riigikogu and also the Executive Board can adopt a decision in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act that the epidemiological situation is now so bad that we have to go to a remote session, apart from some Riigikogu Members simply saying: "I am afraid."?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U128	Thank you. 101 members of the Riigikogu always make their decisions according to how their inner conviction develops. Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U129	Thank you. There are two words: justice and justice. Right is one thing, but justice is a little different. If I'm going south from here now, I'm going to have to start explaining to my constituents on the phone why. I'm asking for some clarity so I can understand what I'm supposed to explain. It seems to me right now that the message I'm taking is that the more we get vaccinated, the more we close society. What is the answer to these people now about the behaviour of our Riigikogu if we now go to a remote hearing?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U130	Thank you. My first answer is to say that we have been discussing procedure for two hours and not dealing with content. I think that none of our constituents understand why we are discussing the procedure here, rather than dealing with the agenda that we have been given, where, among other things, the four draft laws that we have at our reading today are very important. Secondly, as has been said at the very beginning of this debate, the reasons by which the Reform Party Group has come up relate in particular to our health situation in the country. I think that it is possible for every voter to assess whether, for example, the Government of the Republic's recommendation to do maximum teleworking, if that is possible, is justified or not. That is what I hope you will be able to answer here in the near future. But I don't think we're gonna make it to the vote today. I do not know if you still want to discuss the procedure, which is essentially not a procedure, but a substantive debate, we can do so, but I think that very many colleagues do not understand why we cannot go to the substantive work. Mr. Kruusmäe for the seventh time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U131	Yeah, thanks! Thank you for the answer you gave to Merry Aart, that was really good. It's gone! The party of the Reform Party is actually higher than the Health Board, which actually evaluates the epidemiological and these specific situations here and according to this [decides]. However, it is vital to get out of it. Now, I'm asking you, is this the number of beds? Well, looking at the news every day, we have one number of beds, and the other is how many people have been vaccinated. What do I say to my constituents as ambassador? Is it that when Estonia gets more beds, more beds come, we just run down some furniture house, or if people start vaccinating themselves even more, that I call for people to go immediately to vaccinate, otherwise the Riigikogu will be shut down? Is there a specific figure? Now we understand that you don't need to ask the Health Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U132	Thank you. You will certainly tell your voters exactly what you want. But first, I would advise you to tell your constituents to vaccinate, please. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U133	Thank you, Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. I am looking at what is happening as such a green Member, and I am a little incomprehensible. In particular, I have a fundamental dispute or a different view of the word 'in particular', where you find that you are arbitrarily applying the procedures that are still permitting there. I appeal to you as an older colleague and a more experienced person that if a member of the Riigikogu finds that the decision of the management board is contrary to both the administrative procedure and the law, what are the possible levers through which it is possible to challenge both the decision of the hall and the decision of the management board, i.e. to protect in some way the enforcement of the laws in this Parliament. At this point, I don't know where I'm supposed to turn to challenge that decision. Why don't you list as an older colleague and give advice on what the levers I can use for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U134	Thank you. I'll finish chairing the hearing in 23 minutes. I'll meet you at the cafeteria later. I'll give you a little tutorial. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U135	Thank you. I'll still come with my eighth procedural question. We have held this discussion here for a very long time, and we have tried to understand what such a desire is for the Reform Party, and the circle is tightening. The circle is shrinking to the point where we are talking about this recital, the epidemiological situation. We know that the remote session procedure was introduced in connection with the corona epidemic. Since we have already asked here repeatedly whether there are any criteria that would determine the dangerous epidemiological situation on the basis of which the Riigikogu could or should not go to teleworking, maybe it should change its home and work procedures and sign it in? Otherwise, as we can see, as Murphy's law says, every law can be abused or the absence of a law, or some things that have not been written into the law, we will see that it is already being misused. Perhaps we should describe very clearly the criteria for this epidemiological situation so that such a situation does not happen again?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U136	Thank you. This is not the basis or reason for this debate at the moment. Secondly, however, I recall that the country had a special situation some time ago on the surface of much smaller epidemiological indicators, and I do not think that we can and do not have to write exactly the epidemiological numbers in the Rules of Procedure, because all such situations that may affect us are special. We must therefore have the capacity to assess whether or not we are working in the form of a remote hearing. I hope that these are the last three procedural questions so that we can make this assessment. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U137	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I just wanted to remind you. You've been complaining here at the Riigikogu that we are already asking procedural questions for the second hour and have not gone to today's agenda, but I'm just reminding everyone who listens to us and makes sure that we approved yesterday the agenda on which we work this week. Under your leadership, the current point that we are discussing here has been brought here, so in that sense, these procedural questions are fully justified, which are currently taking place here. I just want to remind you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U138	Yeah, thanks! The agenda doesn't change. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U139	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am basically expressing a decisive protest about how we are trying to introduce such a very creative approach to public law. My question is now that either in a situation where, on the basis of undefined legal definitions, personal or, let's say, a party legal policy is being implemented, where there are no criteria, such as 'public interest' or 'proportionality', or 'weighty reasons', which have not been defined, which cannot be presented, whether, on the basis of such undefined legal concepts, the exercise of public law will continue to be legitimate. What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U140	Estonia is the rule of law, I think. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U141	Thank you, Mr President. I asked you what these possible legal levers are when I find that the decision of the Riigikogu's board of directors or the decision of the parliament is contrary to the current law on home and working procedures. Your answer was that there's still 23 minutes left in your remote control, and you're gonna tell me after somewhere in the cafeteria. I think that my question, which is strictly procedural, you should answer in this Chamber, because one thing is the image of coffee, and the other is the official procedural question. So I would still ask you to explain, not in the corner of the cafeteria, but in this very hall, what are these legal levers if the Member finds that domestic and working procedures have been violated.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U142	Thank you. I don't think this debate is necessary in this form in the big hall. The Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu will certainly help you in the same way. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U143	Good chairman of the sitting! Why, however, do you not concretise this concept of the epidemiological situation in any way? This would help to understand much better whether teleworking is justified or not and, from which borders it is justified, whether it is the incidence of infection, whether it is the hospital's fill, whether it is the proportion of vaccination or whatever else you consider to be the right measure to make that assessment. Otherwise, it is an extremely subjective assessment on the basis of which, I think, we should not organise the activities of the most important body of our legislative power.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U144	Thank you. The members of the Riigikogu are free in their mandate. You can decide, I can decide, everyone else can decide on the proposed proposal. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U145	Thank you, good vice chairman. One hour and 37 minutes ago, you said that the President of the Reform Party Group would receive these answers. Now we have so much time, called a telephone game, that you are trying to convey the message of the group chairman in your interpretation, but you are stuck in it. Would it not be wise for us to invite the President of the Reform Party Group here, who maybe knows and can simply explain to the ambassadors why we need it? Because at this point, you're making up answers on the flight, but many of them aren't bad, and different answers are conflicting. For the sake of legal clarity, would we be able, for example, to take the manager's break, you might be doing a video interview with the Netship and show us what these reasons are? Right now, we're just assuming that there's a number of blind people here who feel elephants.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U146	Thank you. This is not about the procedure for conducting a hearing. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U147	Thank you, Mr President. I would return to this principle of discretion and to the word 'in particular', which you have declared legitimate. At this point in my understanding, the meaning of this 'in particular' still relates to the statement made by the Reform Party. The Board of the Riigikogu has now adopted this criterion, which is stated in the statement in the wording of the Reform Party. Do you think that the reasons that the Reform Party's statement indicates are compelling reasons for allowing the transition to a remote sitting? In the event of such an interpretation, any reason may be given for declaring the hearing remotely [the sitting]. With this example, I would like to point out that this action is still not legally correct, because there cannot be a principle in the administration that we apply here a list of compelling reasons with some discretionary decision. Do you agree with my reasoning, or do you find that there are legally incorrect interpretations?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U148	Thank you. I've answered you before. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U149	Good manager! We have now discussed for nearly two hours the procedurally unexpected proposal of the Reform Party to take the work of the Riigikogu to a remote session. Looking now that we have also adopted the agenda for this week, where there are 24 important points on Wednesday, goes out to night, Monday was practically empty, today is such an intermediate. My question is: why did the honourable Group of the Reform Party not come up with such an innovative, albeit slightly funny, scented proposal on Monday before we even started approving the weekly work programme? Thanks to this, we have been forced to discuss your proposal procedurally for the second hour here. Why did the Reform Party Group come up with this now, but not on Monday before the work week plan was approved?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U150	Thank you. I don't have the exact time that the Reform Party Group wrote this letter at hand, but I'll tell you from memory that it arrived yesterday. The Riigikogu's board met at 9 a.m. this morning. Helle-Moonika Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U151	Thank you. A good colleague, Kalle Grünthal, nevertheless, asked how it has come about that we find the word 'in particular' in the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu in this section and then try to push something through on this basis. I also mentioned before in my question, using a word such as 'abuse'. I can see clearly that the Reform Party is currently abusing the word 'in particular'. I'm just asking. Let us now imagine that in spring the weather will be beautiful and the Centre Party and the Reform Party will want to go to the beach for example, and then they will find that it can also be placed under the word 'in particular'. Is the Riigikogu going to a long-distance hearing again?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U152	Ladies and gentlemen, This is no longer a substantive debate. I really call for the procedural questions to be stopped, we are not going to be any smarter here in any way, and to decide whether or not we are going to continue working from tomorrow in the form of a remote hearing. Indeed, I do not see a substantive debate here that we would somehow have come up with a few pieces of information. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U153	Thank you, good vice chairman. It's not like there's gonna be any bits of information, because you're the one who's really distributing the pieces of information. You have also answered here several times and said: "I have already answered before. " But you have responded differently in the past. This raises questions when answers contradict each other. But my question is now a little bit simpler. What's the coincidence that a letter came in yesterday and we're already working on it today? A letter came from the Reform Party yesterday, and today you are chairing the sitting and you find that it needs to be dealt with here immediately and quickly. So is this just a coincidence?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U154	We are discussing this because the Board of the Riigikogu discussed it this morning. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U155	Good manager! I will return to my humble question. If you look at this week's agenda, Wednesday is seriously clogged with important drafts, a night hearing awaits. But Monday was completely drained and Thursday was also. Now we're here for the second hour and we're discussing the reform party's flash proposal today and we've wasted two hours. However, if the Reform Party had been able to come up with this proposal yesterday when the day was empty, the hearing ended after five minutes. Why did the Reform Party not come up with this proposal yesterday before the weekly agenda was adopted? Then we could have discussed it all day long, it wouldn't be a problem. But today we already have very little time to change the law of the party and discuss the implementation of agricultural policy and pre-school children's institutions for social democrats. Why did this flash decision come today, but not yesterday? Did any of the events take place yesterday with the health of some members of your group, or why did you not come up with this yesterday?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U156	Thank you. The Reform Party Group forwarded the proposal to the Riigikogu Board yesterday at 11.16 a.m., but the Riigikogu Board met this morning at 9 a.m., and that is why we are discussing it here today at 10 a.m. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U157	To sum up this whole thing: the word 'in particular' cannot justify the vicious violation of the rules of procedure and domestic law that you are currently carrying out here. This is simply not conceivable or acceptable, and my proposal has now been extended. I proposed before that the Bureau should meet and give the political groups time to gather and shape their positions and then, tomorrow, in the big Chamber, to express their senses. The fact that your position is already known doesn't cost a damn thing. Our group has not been able to gather, has not been able to shape a position, and this opportunity must be guaranteed to us. But now I am extending my proposal: I propose that, instead of the Bureau, the Assembly of Elders be convened again, so that, indeed, on the broadest possible basis, this situation can be resolved here in such a way that it is not some sort of crossing over with the reform party's tank, but a solid and respectful solution to the problem with Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U158	Thank you. The Riigikogu Board discussed this at nine o'clock in the morning and we have now held this debate for two hours, the positions are quite clear and I believe that the members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to shape the position. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U159	Good manager! I do not think the situation is clear at all. The Reform Party came up with its proposal for such a lightning decision only yesterday, Monday at mid-morning, or after that. However, the epidemiological situation was also known to you last week. Last week, the Assembly of Elders discussed the matter and did not see the big point in it, but suddenly on Monday at mid-morning, the Reform Party saw and then calmly voted in favour of the weekly agenda. This has actually wasted two hours of expensive working time on Tuesday, after the week's agenda has been approved. Besides, this agenda is, like, completely unbalanced for days. Why wasn't it done before?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U160	Thank you. It seems to me that this two hours are primarily furnished by your group's colleagues and with you. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U161	Thank you very much, Mr President. In fact, I very much urge you to take into account the criticisms of both Mart Helme and the statements made by Peter Ernitsa concerning the clarity of this situation. Yeah, there's no clarity. Indeed, at this point in time, the political groups certainly need time to consult on this situation, whether it comes from the idea of clarity or from the right of complaint or from some other reason. [There are] the same possibilities that have been offered that okay, let us make sure that the body of elders gets together for a moment, or at least give the political groups the opportunity to analyse this situation, and also what has now taken place in this Chamber. The reasonable time for this is today-to-morrow, and only after that will we come together and we have started voting on this matter. That really makes sense. Can you do that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U162	Thank you. We have a proposal on the table that we will vote through once we have completed the procedural issues. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U163	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. In the current situation, the result is that instead of showing the Estonian people an example of how to behave properly, it does not appear. I have a desire to support what Mart Helme has proposed in order to convene a body of elders to resolve this issue, in order to obtain a deliberate and reasoned result on the cursed word 'in particular'. I believe and am convinced that, first of all, this debate will certainly raise Parliament's dignity. Secondly, I don't see any time-critical reason why we have to solve this here with a run. Indeed, it seems that some coalition ambassadors have booked plane or train tickets to travel somewhere on holiday. That is not the reason, and I am still asking you to convene a body of elders in the name of Parliament's dignity. Discuss this question through just this is our question of honor right now. I beg you, Mr. Pevkur!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U164	Thank you for this proposal. But the Riigikogu Board discussed this issue, the Council of Elders too, and now we can go to the vote. Mr. Fieldace, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U165	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I ask for a ten-minute break on behalf of the Estonian Conservative People's Party so that we can discuss how to vote then.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U166	That is really your right under the Rules of Procedure. Break ten minutes. We'll proceed at 12.10.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U167	Honourable Riigikogu, I propose that the plenary sessions be put to the vote between 10 and 25. 1 November inclusive through a remote sitting. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U168	62 members of the Riigikogu supported the proposal, 23 against. The proposal was supported. Now for a little detail on today's agenda. On today's fourth item, which is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Act on Pre-Study Children's Institution Act 415, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group and member of the Riigikogu Raimond Kaljulaid, a member of the Riigikogu Eduard Odines and Marko Šorin, a member of the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U169	Let us move to our first item on the agenda: Second reading of draft law amending traffic law initiated by the Government of the Republic 414. Mr Kalvi Tõvi, member of the Economic Commission for the Chair, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U170	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We have before us draft law 414 and the Committee on Economic Affairs discussed it at its meeting. It must be said from the outset that this draft has not been politically loaded, no amendments came from any political group. However, on the recommendation of the Ministry, the Commission made three amendments and can safely say that they are all of such a fine-tuning nature. The first amendment is that, according to the draft law at first reading, the Minister would have had to make one regulation, where only one sentence would have been written, that this would be the case because of European Union legislation. Now we have brought this sentence into this bill, there will be no regulation in this regard. The second amendment is clear: one paragraph deletes the part of the sentence that is now written in the second paragraph. And the third proposal is also "detailable," regarding the time of entry into force. And what did the Commission decide? Propose to put a draft on the plenary agenda today, which was by consensus, and propose that the second reading be closed by consensus. And there was also such a decision that, when the second reading was closed, the proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda on 17 November inclusive and to hold a final vote. That, too, was consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U171	Thank you very much. There are questions. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U172	Thank you, good waitress! Does this law now regulate, to some extent, the procedure for the use and prohibition of politically charged traffic signs?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U173	No.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U174	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U175	Good manager and good waitress! This directive had to be transposed in order to get the tolls that Estonian drivers had not paid. And my question is, did the Commission discuss how many Estonian sofas have failed to pay a toll in the country of 20 countries? Now that we approve of this amendment to the directive, it is possible to get it out of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U176	Thank you, good Peter! I remember you asked the Minister about the same questions at first reading. No, it was not discussed in the Commission. But not only can other countries really start to recover these Estonian drivers, as you say, from this bill, but there is also a positive side to this bill. And that's because if you drive through Europe to some country of x and those countries you pass are tolls, then you'll get these tolls all at once on the same platform in the future. So this bill also has a positive side. And, of course, we must all be law-abiding not only in our own country, but also in other countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U177	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U178	Thank you. Dear waitress, Did no one in the Commission discuss this draft raise the question of the European Union's competence to regulate our tolls? And if we extend the competence of the European Union in this one area, what could be the next steps with which we will give our own tax policy or economic policy issues at all to decide on the future of the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U179	Thank you. This draft does not regulate toll policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U180	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U181	Thank you! Was it discussed in the Commission that wearing politically charged road signs is also subject to tax or fine? And is the current practice to be taken into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U182	Thank you, good Tarmo! I'll answer you later. Of course, if the traffic law comes to the Riigikogu, then oh, that is one law that we would probably like to talk about as everyday road users on the roads and on the streets, with and without wheels. This draft regulation regulates a very small part of traffic and concerns the possibility of paying tolls, not even the introduction of tolls. It is precisely toll payment options. And indeed, since traffic law has been on our desks more than a few times this year, we have tried to keep ourselves informed in the Committee on Economic Affairs about the whole area of traffic law. But, good Tarmo, we really are driving signs, pushed, I don't know, whatever other issues are on the agenda, we didn't discuss in the framework of this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U183	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U184	Thank you, good manager. Thank you for the answer to the previous question, I remember. But I ask you, in the Committee on Economic Affairs, whether you have discussed the possible steps taken to join this club, so that we too have these tolls. Not only in relation to this draft, I have not had time to look at the protocol, but in the cost charts.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U185	Yeah, good Peter! While this draft was at first reading, before the first reading in the Commission, we really tried, we discussed very long and we tried to understand what this draft provides for. At that point there was also a transport development plan in the Riigikogu and, as you remember, the minister here on the remote said that in the long term we probably need to introduce some additional tolls for the sustainable development of our roads. It was, uh, 2035 or whatever. And we assumed, maybe as you do now, that this bill has something to do with it. As far as I can tell, and I think that the majority of the members of the Commission also understood just as the Minister and other ministerial officials confirmed it, no, it is not related to this. It doesn't have anything to do with any extra tax door, even a little bit. I confirm this as a result of these debates in the Commission before the first reading. So what I'm saying is right, I see Kaido nodding as a good officer of the Commission. We all understood that in the Commission, but we also had that fear.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U186	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U187	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Yes, tolls are certainly a political issue, even if this bill is not, part of it is certainly in policy making. My question comes from this format, whether the logic of PPP projects was raised in this debate in the Commission as well. After all, the Estonian state has seriously discussed how to build roads better, how to ensure road safety and perhaps use the PPP model for this, right? And there is an inseparable question, in fact, of how then retroactively pay off these roads, whether there is a consumer's share. Did you get there or didn't you?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U188	Thank you. For starters, yes, that is why I said that this [theme] is politically charged. All that is about tolls is politically heavily charged, but this bill is not, and I marked it at the beginning. The honest answer is that we did not discuss PPP projects in this draft. Of course, the Committee on Economic Affairs has been discussing road issues for a long time, but not within the framework of this draft. And even within the framework of the transport development plan only briefly. So the answer to you in the context of this bill is, I didn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U189	No further questions. We can go to the negotiations. The wish to negotiate has been expressed by Tarmo Kruusimäe. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U190	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good people, all of you sworn here to do good lawmaking, and the people who will follow us online later! Yeah, we're dealing with traffic laws here. But one important point is that members of the Riigikogu have different levels of information. And now I would just like to talk to you about maybe the two inappropriate questions I have been asked, or whether, in the case of politically charged road signs, fines will be imposed in the future in accordance with current practice or the principle of equal treatment applies. And this was not discussed by the Commission. But really, I'm out of this frame because I don't get this frame, it's so small, you should think about it all the time, but it's gonna be bigger... It's a well-known traffic sign. [[Shows a small sign in the hand.]] Maybe it's zoomed in here between my fingers, but it's a sign that you can't turn left. Soccer club Warsaw Legia put this kind of traffic sign on the banner's bleacher. In front of the case, back to the other one, as they say. I don't know why. But the result was that UEFA made EUR 20000 [fine] for a political poster. It's Poland, it's not too far from us right now. EUR 20000! Now the question is, if there's a similar sign, but the arrow points to the right, either it's fine or it's fine. At the moment, Europe has gone a little too far with its own regulation, overregulation. And we in Estonia are ourselves even more... If two winches are still turned on, we're not gonna turn four more, we're gonna pull it off to make sure it's safe. It's a simple sign, isn't it? [[Shows the hand sign.]] This sign must have meant anything, but this way, this sign means something else. [[Shows the hand sign.]] If I want to tell a person on the computer that yes, I've got your letter, and I'm gonna hit the O and the K, he's gonna offer me a handtag like that. [[Shows the hand sign.]] What is this, a provocation by Zuckerberg? Really? Imagine that if someone temporarily puts such a traffic sign on a sports facility, for example, or if I give it to an Estonian athlete, for example, who puts it on his chest in good faith, will he be cancelled because it is politically loaded? Really?! This is no longer a true age, but we are entering a post-thinking era. That is, when the idea runs out, when we actually get to this phase, just like we had the beginning of today's sitting. It's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, Let's do it first, and then when we have time, we'll think. My concern is how we start making decisions in advance based on the appearance of people or the behaviour of people, if we have not asked for anything, but how the general view of the majority of people has emerged that other people should be punished. And, the people who are watching us over the Internet, you will see that the Riigikogu is now sent to self-insulation. Please take care of this fourth or fifth vaccine so that the Riigikogu can work normally. Our figures, which we are talking about, and what the news is about, are only about how many people have been vaccinated. So the fewer people have been vaccinated, the harder we have an epidemiological or whatever the situation is apparent or substantive or tending-conscious. Vaccinate yourself, then the Riigikogu can go back to work peacefully. Otherwise, we have a special foal situation here. But about traffic signs, I say, yes... A friend of mine said the road signs were made to be fined. The bill is generally good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U191	There's no more calls. As has been said, amendments to the draft have been tabled and we will review them. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, which has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. Another amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and has taken full account of it itself. And the third and final amendment, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. We have examined the amendments. The commission has proposed that the second reading of draft 414 be terminated. Second reading is complete. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I have received the proposal from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party to extend today's session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14. We must decide on this by voting. First, then, the sally. Ladies and gentlemen, we have received a proposal from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party to extend today's plenary session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U192	There are 52 delegates in favour of the proposal, 9 against and 2 abstentions. The proposal was backed up, so we're working until 2:00 today.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U193	Next item: First reading of the draft amendment to § 81 of the Political Party Act initiated by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. I invite a member of the Riigikogu, Paul Puustusmaa, to serve as a waitress. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U194	Ladies and gentlemen in this Chamber and those ladies who are outside the hall watching and watching what is happening in front of the monitors, the displays! In general, of course, it is a good thing that hundreds of people, perhaps thousands, are watching what we do outside the hall via the Internet and television. Because, as we have repeatedly said here, what is being said on this board is not just the personal opinion of a Member, but he is talking to the people, he is talking to the country. Today I talk to you, I talk to the people, I talk to the country, because why I'm on the remote is crucial. Very important! Supporting or not supporting this law, supporting its correction or not supporting it, is a sign of whether to support freedoms, support democracy or continue to support black, dark anti-democraticism. As my good colleague Tarmo Kruusimäe said here a moment ago, the European Union is, by its very nature, a well-known overreactor, an overregulator. And what's worse is that we here in Estonia are also turning to what the European Union is regulating, ten more winches, or how it sounded. We're gonna pull that last one out. It's really inevitable, isn't it? You know the saying that Estonians have, how to say now, a positive or negative habit of regulating everything very numbly. It's really in our blood. Remember, too, when we complied with our laws here during the Soviet era, it was said that what is the great woe of Estonians is that they are trying to comply with the Soviet laws with German precision. Yeah, that was a problem. This problem has actually persisted so far. We will take this draft today, 416 SE, which is actually very short and, by its very nature, talks about the amendment of § 81 of the Political Party Act. This change is nothing more than the abolition of public political lists. Its [content] is that political declarations and political will should not be public. This is actually a question of democracy, human dignity, privacy. This is a question of the protection of personal data, which we may not have been very aware of. Some time ago, I began to analyse the situation that we have a situation where people's political declarations are public in our country. And this is in a situation where the whole world, I emphasise, the whole world, maybe with China out and North Korea out. History is also known at times when states or national leaders, leading parties, gathered data on people's political views. Yes, these [things] are known to us from the past. But progressive life has taken us far away from these bad times. Today, we are basically living in a society where certain personal data are sensitive or, as is now said under the new data protection regulation GDPR, certain personal data are so important that their protection is of particular importance. These include equally people's political views, sexual orientation, health, wealth. They are all equally protected very important personal data which may not be collected. Or, if I may, on a very clear-willed basis and for a very justified reason. And more importantly, they must not be disclosed. Imagine if we lived in a society where everyone would know who has a state of health, who has a broken lung, who has a heart disease, or who has a wealth. Let's go open the Internet and see who's at what treasure or what's politically thinking. Let's see! When that thought came up and got this thing investigated, I didn't say for nothing that the whole world was against it. This is practically out of the question in the European Union. There are no countries in Europe except Estonia and, strangely speaking, Latvia, where there are political views in the public register. I would like to stress here that, as Estonia and Latvia, it is possible that this has arisen from some past situation. After all, Estonia and Latvia have been in one country for centuries. And when we talk about the history of Estonia, our Maarja County statehood, the Livonian Confederation, which was made up of Estonia and Latvia, has had a century of history and maybe has had some influence. Well, that's speculation, of course, but still. But yes, there is a situation in Estonia and Latvia that these views are public in the register. I made an inquiry into all the countries in Europe, for which there is no way of knowing what is happening in these countries. As a result of inquiries, I learned that, yes, little of the fact that political views are public only in Estonia and Latvia, and nowhere else, the reason why they have not been disclosed has been mentioned with this mark... [[Browse papers.]] Yes, I wanted to quote from this analysis, but basically the reason is that the disclosure of political data in European countries is considered to be contrary to the GDPR, or the General Data Protection Regulation. That is the main reason that has been set out. Now the question is, why do we even have him? To be honest, there is no reasonable reason for this. However, contradictions and societal circumstances show that there is no need for such a political declaration. There is an attempt to build on the fact that disclosure of political views is necessary to prevent corruption, which is one of the reasons. Life must be more transparent. But then I'd ask a little bit that it might still be useful to make public what our health records are and what our wealth of data are. For you see, on the basis of the wealth of data you can expect and suspect and check whether someone is corrupt or not, it is in this case much easier. Well, if a man doesn't really have any money, then he's corrupt, isn't he? Or the other way around. If the heart is still very sick and the operation costs tens of thousands, and he's paid 500 euros, where does he get the money? Still corrupt! So, in fact, it is not a question of disclosure, but it is an unhealthy question of curiosity, this issue of state control, to control the human mind and the human thought. Indeed, it is very clear why these sensitive personal data are not collected, investigated, processed in Europe and anywhere else in the world. Indeed, this can only be done in exceptional cases where there is an extreme need or the free will of a person himself. Now, one of these dangers, or not even a threat, but let's just say this, one of those nuances that you want to pay attention to in this question, is that a person is talking about his views anyway, and then we know what his views are. We know what neighbors he's got anyway, and so on. But, you know, believe me, people's views change from time to time. People's views change, people evolve, people walk into one party, get out of there, some just support a party by joining a party, but one day they get out of there and walk into a third party. What is justified, then, is that any curious person can go to the public to see which party the person has been in, to which party the person has gone, to which party the person belongs, to which party there is no need to do so. I present an interesting nuance from which the psychiatrist and philosopher Valdar Parve wrote in the Eesti Päevaleht this year, when the question was how such disclosure of political views in Estonia has become a reality. I quote, these are not my words, but they are from the newspaper: "As a result of the Father-Kallan government, a pseudomoral agreement was reached that any person whose party's agitator has been able to sign a statement is immediately a person who wishes to exercise state authority. SDE seemed to have a special interest in this step. Siim Kallas, on the other hand, wondered after the vote on the law of making all the members of each political party public: 'Oh, that is not the case in Europe?' " Indeed, there isn't. So something was over-regulated. When this decision was adopted in the early 2000s, problems began to accumulate immediately. Today and today, we have no secret whatsoever if we read in newspapers and magazines how the political activity of a person has begun to hinder his/her private life, how he/she is discriminated against or at least seems to be discriminated against. But, well, with democracy, the thing that's democratic doesn't just have to be it, it has to look like it. In this case, this action, which follows in this regard, is often very exhausting and ruinous for people. Let me give you a few examples. These are examples in the public media for a long time, year by year. I'm not naming names, so many people are sitting here in the Riigikogu today. Working in IBM and participating in politics didn't come together. That is why I joined the party after my work in the company had ended. What's it pointing to? Discrimination. Next page, Lõunaht: When the city government invited the dance educator to work as a cultural director at the city's cultural centre, the dance teacher was faced with a bad surprise in the autumn. It is his decision not to enter the party that is behind the rejection. Hiiumaa Leht. At least three candidates are known to the paper: former secretary of the country, former governor of the country and elected Mr X. The first was not suitable for his party membership. Well, let's keep going. Complaint to the Press Council from 25 March 2010: the complainant is not satisfied that the page did not offer him the opportunity to comment on the charge, and the complainant also considers that the page has unduly disclosed his party's affiliation. The decision of the press board: the press council considers the party affiliation of the complainant and the linking of this agreement to be misleading to the readers. I read in a relatively recent article on the Daily Paper: Party X promised to let 300 central parties off the job in order to fulfil their electoral promises. Another party also promised to review the suitability of officials of roughly the same order of magnitude for their seats. They estimate that as many as 400 persons belonging to the wrong party need to be audited in the Tallinn city system. This was Eesti Päevaleht. As early as 2003, Chancellor of Justice Mr Allar Jõks paid attention to this, it was only a few years after this provision was introduced, that this is probably a very discriminatory and human rights-infringing provision. Chancellor of Justice Allar Jõks gave such an opinion. In particular, it sees a risk in the form of potential discrimination. For example, he said that the employer could not employ a person because his or her political preferences differ from those of the candidate. The Constitution prohibits discrimination on any ground, but among other things it specifically mentions the prohibition of discrimination on grounds of political conviction. According to the chancellor, the dissemination of information about the political convictions of individuals creates a strong presumption of a strong presumption! In order to give rise to such discrimination. Everyone has access to information about a person's political affiliation, and therefore, according to Jõks, it is undoubtedly also about his or her political preferences and interests. He said that the publication of the lists violates everyone's constitutional right to the protection of private life. Jne. This information, of course, also reached the Riigikogu. It was considered in the Riigikogu. But what is our custom? It's our custom not to admit our mistakes. The party that led power for years and years, which introduced such a strange provision, was, of course, not prepared to eliminate this provision, despite the fact that it is a very deep and gross violation of human rights. I doubt, of course, that this party is ready to do this today, but, ladies and gentlemen, it is actually time to grow up. In fact, it is time to change the situation substantially and to exclude certain specific, sensitive personal data, which can very deeply ruin a person's life, from public information. That's the principle of this thing. Ladies and gentlemen, I very, very much hope that you will understand this, and I very much hope that you will still support this change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U195	Thank you very much. It is now possible to ask the waitress questions. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U196	Thank you, dear waitress, for a very good explanation. The fundamental question here is whether a citizen must have the right to belong to a political party and, by doing so, to be a supporter of his or her outlook in such a way that it remains private. And when you look at the broader issue, we actually have, for years, decades, a tendency that political parties have become either a single state institution by means of unwritten laws or an instrument of public authority. Here, too, with our first vote today, it turned out very clearly that the place where decisions on politics are actually made are political parties and not national institutions. Is now this bill...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U197	Time, Reuben!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U198	...can change this very bad trend?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U199	Well, I guess so. But actually, good Reuben, it's even a little deeper. People very often do not support certain policies as a whole. After all, no party is homogeneous and 100% is inherent. And in fact, neither are the different political movements of this. A person can support one, two or three ideas from one political party. And sometimes, in order to support such an idea, a person joins a political party, but perhaps he does not so much want to actively enlist or [act] this party, but to give support through it. And in the end, we will still get where the whole world has come from, except, of course, for totalitarian countries. The world has come to the point that disclosure of a political view, the emergence of a political view, and also the change of a political view, all of this is normal; it is part of democracy; it is part of pluralism. But as such, fix an eternally public database, it's in any case evil, I'd say so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U200	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U201	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, Please describe the situation in Lithuania. According to my information, Lithuania has made it public, but does there exist any specific provisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U202	That's a good question, I have to look. When we made this inquiry through the Legal and Analytical Department, Europe's 30 countries replied. I'll see if Lithuania was among them. Yes, Lithuania was among them, and the figures for Lithuania are as follows: Political membership may be disclosed only with the consent of the person concerned, as this is a special type of personal data. The Lithuanian party law provides for only one exception to the disclosure of members of a party. According to this, the Central Election Commission will make public on its website the names of the members of the political party who have paid more than EUR 360 per calendar year. It says the amount paid and the name of the person. This is a tool for controlling political parties' funding. So much for Lithuania. And, of course, I would like to say in advance that this draft protects, first and foremost, the situation of thousands and thousands of ordinary people who are not really active in politics. But I stress that if this law enters into force and the list, the public list and the National Audit Office are rejected in this sense, then the leading members of all political parties will inevitably remain publicised. Because there can be no other way, this information will be visible in the register of non-profit organisations and foundations anyway. Secondly, all those who enter the public service are known, for example, members of the Riigikogu, of course, if they have been elected on the list of parties in the elections. [This is the case] at least during the period when they are in the public service or are implementing their [objectives] as public life [actors] through the fact that they are indisputablely linked to the party. But this does not mean that it should remain for the rest of their lives [so], this period will be over. However, it is also possible to change its [positions] in the middle of this period. The perceptions can change, and the person leaves behind the supporters of this party. But he doesn't have to have a stain on his forehead: you see, old reformer. He doesn't have to keep it. So that's the idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U203	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U204	Thank you for bringing this very interesting debate to the Riigikogu. In your presentation, you mentioned several times that these are political views. I would point out a little bit that party membership is more than just having political views. The party is the institution through which citizens rule the state, it is the authority. And since it's the authority that governs our public life, that's why the public might know who's in it. On the other hand, of course, the problems that have been raised here, the possible discrimination on the basis of who belongs to which party, of course, is problematic and Estonian law actually prohibits discrimination on such grounds. I understand that your concern is that we really cannot protect [people] from it. Do you not think it would be more effective to improve this [regulation], for example, to create such an addition that we can see who has looked at the party membership of a particular person, rather than the termination of this disclosure, [new reason] that we are unable to protect our citizens? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U205	Time, Oudekki!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U206	Then you can prove that the boss has been watching, and now I'm fired.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U207	Thank you, good Oudekki! This is one approach, but it can be called fine-tuning. A little bit of pressure, but let's leave everything the old way, let the country still watch who's with what kind of views. I want to stress that when a person goes to a party, it is not just that, it is something very much more. Once again, I didn't look up this Valdar raft article for nothing. Indeed, it is possible that this is a bit of a relief, but I quote again: '... that any person whose party's agitator has been able to lead to the signing of a declaration is the same person who wishes to exercise state authority', that is indeed the wrong approach. No, it's not! Once again, when this law enters into force, all the current important functionalists who are on the board of parties who have gone to the Riigikogu or the City Council as members of political parties will remain public anyway. However, this does not justify the fact that thousands and thousands of other people, who are involved in our party, maybe on [weaker grounds], should also be made public. Let me give you a good example. It was Dr. Reiljan, Dr. Andres Reiljan of the University of Tartu, a philosopher, a social scientist, who wrote quite recently in Postimees about how people are divided by political affiliation and this is a very keen interest. And he writes that the feelings of Estonian voters regarding political parties are deeply polarised. Would it bother you, for example, if your child were to marry an EKRE member, or how would you feel about having a socialist move as your neighbour? It seems that these things are very likely to lead to discrimination. In the United States, discrimination based on party identity has become such a [issue] that it has immediately become a separate name. It's being sucked into "partism." It creates anger and unhealthy curiosity. And I therefore think it is worth stressing once again: we are talking about thousands of ordinary members, the history of those ordinary members who have been somewhere, who have gone somewhere, who have belonged to somewhere. Keeping them on the list, publicising their political views and their political activities is not justified by the need for disclosure, not by the interest of the State. Yeah, maybe with the interest of the state, if we're moving towards a dictatorship, well, then I get it. And if we've decided that we're headed for a dictatorship, then of course I think we should not make this list so difficult that you have to log in there, but then we could put [this information] in public sheets somewhere on the walls so that every person can walk and see who's still a middle party or who's been a middle party. It's very good to know to whom you've promised your daughter's husband, the devil, I wouldn't let her to a middle partyman! I guess it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U208	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U209	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Our constitution states that no one must be discriminated against because of his political views. But in this case, the current situation is just encouraging it. There aren't very rare cases, I've received a lot of signals about people wanting to come to the EKRE, but the problem is that the employer, who belongs to another party, is starting to bully after that. There have probably also been cases in which this person is released from his or her job. This norm, or the law [the bill] you are currently introducing here, is actually one of the keys to reducing discrimination due to political views. Is my reasoning in this regard correlated with this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U210	Thank you so much, Kalle! Absolutely right, that's right, yes. And I could say that, of course, reasonable people don't blaze along the political database. It was a pleasure that when we discussed this issue in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the head of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Toomas, said very specifically that if he was in the public service, the head of local governments and he was looking for subjects, he did not care who had done what policy. He was looking for a specialist. That's right, Thomas! That's it. You're gonna have to look for a specialist. But, unfortunately, people are different. And what happens to us is that unfortunately, public life has shown this repeatedly in various sources just not so easy. Thomas may not be looking at a person's political views, but some others are. There have also been several cases in our own party. I remember very well one history teacher [case]. Priit Dieves is his name. His problems came from the fact that he wrote a public article about his worldview and did not deny what party he belonged to. What was the result? If we had people acting in good faith, then perhaps there would be no problem, although the problem still remains because for which a public political database is needed at all. It's anyway. As I said, when we are heading towards democracy, it is not necessary, if we are going away from democratisation, it may be necessary. And once again, ladies and gentlemen, there is no place in the world other than China and North Korea for that matter. Ah, Latvia and Estonia too. I'm sorry! Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U211	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U212	Good manager and waitress! One way or another, I like that everything is as public as possible and we know who's out there. Well, unfortunately, there is no record of gender preferences that is heterosexual, who is homosexual, who is trans, etc. But what about the rest of Europe? And in how many countries do we know who is in the party?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U213	As I said earlier, there is no country in Europe except Estonia and Latvia. But at the same time you also gave a good hint that indeed, if we approach in such a way that we need transparency in society and to fight possible corruption, it is worthwhile creating other databases, equivalent databases. In accordance with Article 4 (13), (14) and (15) of the GDPR, certain sensitive personal data should not be disclosed or processed. They're listed, there's eight of them, but I'll get some out. These are political views, religious views, trade union membership, genetic and biometric data, health related [data], sexual orientation related [data]. We would then, frankly, make a database of all of them, because I stress that society will otherwise not be transparent. And there's no prevention of corruption. If I still don't know, as I said earlier, that a person is completely ill and he needs money, well, how does he get from anywhere else, still with corruption. Isn't that right? So let's do it. And, of course, sexual minorities should also be included in the database. Then we still know how someone's friend is and who might be signing some kind of contract or something. As I said, if we go this way, if we go this path of democracy ignoring it, we will leave the state we have now, and we will make more of these databases. Here's what I'd propose.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U214	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U215	Good waitress! Mr Oudekki Loone's question remained the same problem that I referred to in my first question. In fact, he said that party membership is not just a demonstration of worldview, but a participation in a body for the exercise of state authority. I think it is a problem and it should not be that way. The parties should be repressed into the position of the non-profit organisation from which they have emerged. Today, in our era, political parties are rather mass organisations, where membership does not necessarily mean active involvement in political activities or in the exercise of state authority. A great deal is being taken into the party precisely to support its world view or some particular ideology and thus to express its spirit. Could this draft be a step towards giving back their real role to political parties?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U216	Thank you, Reuben! I think so, yeah, that's for sure. And I still have to stress once again that, for no reason in Europe, such data are not public. Otherwise, a person cannot feel free to behave freely in a democratic society without fear of being stigmatised or discriminated against, if his views, political perceptions, philosophy of life are placed in a public state database. In fact, it's deeply absurd.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U217	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U218	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, We read here that the aim of the bill is to reduce social tensions and to ensure social and personal security for all citizens. I remember how we went to Finland and met representatives of the Native Finnish party, and more specifically, there was such a blasphemy [of partyism]. And then they said that they really didn't have that kind of thing, that everyone could go and see what party someone was in. The reason was precisely that, as you said, it would lead to spite and persecution on the basis of party membership. I would ask how you had a debate in the Commission: did most of the members of the Commission support the draft or was it not necessary that this kind of bullying is okay and be in the same line with countries like the ones you mentioned, such as North Korea, is quite okay? How did this debate take place in the committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U219	Thank you, Moonika! In fact, of course, to me, I am talking about my personal impression when I listened to what people said in the committee, it was like there was support. But when the Commission began to make procedural decisions, what I originally referred to was clearly: the unwillingness to admit my mistakes. And then it got slogand. Just as the government has said in its opinion, which is full of slogans, so the Commission's principled position was, in fact, a very sorry slogan. Because, as I said, it is not a question of transparency. This is, in fact, a question of the dignity of the country, which the law currently in force is attacking. It is a matter of satisfying inappropriate and unreasonable curiosity; it is a law attacking human dignity that enables stigmatization. So the Commission's support, it seemed to me, was very clearly not human, but political and not admitting its mistakes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U220	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U221	Thank you. Good Paul! I think we are more or less in agreement that this bill would not be necessary if, under the enthusiastic leadership of the liberals in our society, it had not begun to divide society and to screen out the right lies and discriminate against lies. Well, let's give an example. Tõnis Mägi, respected man, honest man. What a slander he was under a few weeks ago for performing at a demonstration of so-called anti-tacts and, in fact, of the abusers of constitutional order and of the offenders! Am I right that this bill was born precisely to protect people from the persecution of liberals?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U222	Yeah, good Mart, that's very close to what I own. Of course it is. Look, if you just brought an example of Tõnis Mäe, it really shows how bad this is the current procedure. Tõnis Mägi was again in some former situation, that same as Valdar Parve's quote had been signed somewhere by some party propaganda coordinator. It may have been years ago, no one knows for sure, he himself remembered it, and it [touched], of course, a green party. He had given some signature somewhere, and he had never really, factually participated in the work of this party. He had kept his whole conscious life away from partyhood, and he declared, with full knowledge and sincerity, that he was not a partyman, but was based on his conscience. Well, then it turns out, but take a finger, he's on the list! He's in there, 666 written on his forehead. Well, that's awkward.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U223	Thank you. Looks like we've run out of questions. We can go to the co-report. I invite the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Toomas Kivimägi.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U224	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at its meeting on 26 October, including. Members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs took part. I consider it important to note that Mr Priit Sibul took part as an alternate member in place of Urmas Reinsalu and that the advisers of the Public Law Service of the Ministry of Justice, Mariko Jõeorg-Jurtshenko and Monika Mikiver, were also invited to the meeting. A good colleague, Paul Puustusmaa, made the same thorough and colourful presentation at the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as today in this Chamber, which is why I think it would be repeated if I quote what Mr Paul Puustusmaa said in the sitting of the Committee on Puustusmaa. There was a very big difference: there was a difference in the size of the auditorium. If there were a dozen listeners, members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs plus the staff of the secretariat, there are hundreds, if not thousands, of them here, as Paul hinted at the beginning of his presentation, or at least hoped, because this is a web broadcast. But I believe that the honourable waitress does not mind if I really do not quote what she said at the committee meeting, because it was largely covered by what Mr Puustusmaa said in this Chamber. As I pointed out, there was also Mariko Jõeorg-Jurtshenko at the committee meeting, who presented the position of the Government of the Republic. The Government of the Republic decided not to support the draft Act amending §81 of the Political Party Act. As a reason, it was pointed out that the lists of political party members have been public for more than 20 years. And indeed, if you look back a little bit in history, the publication of the lists of members of political parties was established on 17 June 1998 when the Law amending the Commercial Code, the Law on Non-profit Associations, the Law on foundations and the laws relating thereto was adopted. As a result, it can be said that this is a well-established practice in society and that it can be taken into account by everyone and is visible to everyone. And it is also important to refer in 1998 to the draft which gave rise to this disclosure. I quote: this principle is very important for securing a stable democratic civil society, making political life more transparent. And the fact that which person belongs to a political party is a matter of public interest, since political parties are essentially associations whose purpose is to participate in the exercise of public authority. Then there was a discussion where Monika Mikiver added that data on political views are [one special type of personal data], but the General Data Protection Regulation lists a number of grounds for the processing of such personal data in Article 9 (2) (a) and (j). Its clear conclusion was that this disclosure is not contrary to Article 9 of the General Data Protection Regulation. Oudekki Loone did indeed come up with a very exciting idea at the committee meeting, which is certainly worth discussing: could it not be a system such that if someone consults the register about the membership of one person or another in the party so that it can be done, for example, by using an ID card or mobile ID, and then a trail would be left behind. I think it is a very pertinent idea and an exciting idea, which, in my opinion, clearly reduces the interest in querying these data on the one hand. After the meeting of the Commission, we asked the Ministry of Justice to examine and clarify these facts, and on this point Mrs Mariko Jõeorg-Jurtshenko has also communicated her view that, under the current procedure, the list of members of the party is public without further restrictions, which means that it can be investigated by anyone without authentication. However, in practice there is a possibility to limit the re-use of open data, a formal obstacle to personalising these searches, whether using an ID card or mobile ID, and leaving no trace of it. In fact, there is no legal contradiction here. This depends, rather, on these considerations and on the reasoning as to whether it is reasonable and necessary to do so. But once again: formally, it is possible. Mariko Jõeorg-Jurtshenko simply considers it important to assess whether the personal data of the queryer is now the person who does the query, who does the query for the processing of personal data for open data is justified and necessary and what is the purpose of such processing. But once again: there is no formal contradiction and, financially, it is a pretty initial assessment of what it has said, it can certainly not be taken as the final truth that its cost is perhaps in the order of EUR 10000. This is a very small amount of money in order to identify a [interesting] person and create a much more robust system when it is really necessary to check who has made these enquiries. We also had repeated references to one such institution in Estonia as the Commissioner for Equality. He could actually deal with these issues. I think it is important to note that the honourable rapporteur, Mr Paul Puustusmaa, said that the EKRE has a rather sceptical attitude towards the Commissioner for Equal Treatment, it is not at all certain that it would be possible to obtain the necessary help. Maybe after that, a small remark. And now I'm getting to the procedural decisions. Indeed, in the course of the debate, there were statements of support and arguments from members of the party that did not submit the draft, but Mr Puustusmaa was right: when the procedural decisions were to be voted on, the decision to propose that the draft be put on the agenda of the plenary on 9 November went through consensually, but the second proposal was to propose that the draft be rejected and 4 people were in favour: Toomas Kivimägi, Oudekki Loone, Marko Torm and Mart Võrklaev, was against 2: Kalle Grünthal and Paul Puustusmaa. And the third decision to appoint Toomas Kivimägi, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to represent the leading commission. There was a consensus on this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U225	Thank you very much. Questions too. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U226	Good manager and waitress! Yes, indeed, so far political affiliation has discriminated against members of some parties. The Centre Party has been one of them, and at this point, of course, the Conservative People Party is one of them. But you and Mart Võrguship voted to send this bill to the trash. Have you discussed with each other that in a few years' time, it may be the same situation that if you are a reform party, you will [know] that you are being discriminated against? You wanna get married, they say, "Ah, fucking reformer." You wanna go to work someplace nice, they say no. Have you discussed the possibility of a change?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U227	Thank you. Honourable questioner! Have not discussed, there is a very short and clear answer to this. However, perhaps so much would add to the fact that disclosure is not discrimination yet. It's very important to know. Publicity is not discrimination yet! And indeed, we also asked the Gender Equality and Equal Treatment Commissioner, who could and who has the competence to settle such disputes and to investigate how many disputes there have been over the past three years due to political affiliation. And, ladies and gentlemen, there have been only two of these disputes. Within three years, two disputes have reached the table of the Commissioner for Gender Equality and Equal Treatment. In my opinion, however, this is an important sign that, in reality, this is not the main and most acute problem in society today, which should necessarily be resolved by the secrecy of those who belong to one party or another.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U228	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U229	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The activities of political parties are governed by two laws: one is a party law and the other is a law of non-profit organisations. The principle of unequal treatment arises here. The point is that the lists of members of non-profit organisations are not published anywhere. It is, however, members of a party who are in a public condemnation and also at a particular risk of discrimination. I would like to know why we treat non-profit organisations differently. Political parties are also non-profit organisations. Why we demand the publication of [parties] lists and we have also made public, but in the case of other non-profit institutions, things are secret.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U230	Thank you, Reverend Asker! Your reference is correct in every way. Indeed, political parties also belong to non-profit organisations. But here it is important to look at [laws] in conjunction, including party law. According to the Political Party Act, if you quote it, the party is a voluntary association of Estonian citizens, the purpose of which is to exercise the power of state and local government. This is a very important factor that distinguishes non-profit organisations from other non-profit organisations. And when we talk about the exercise of public authority, which is one of the most important reasons why this data should be public, when we talk about the exercise of public authority, in fact, transparency is completely inseparable from it. And another thing that I also pointed out at the committee session is that the EKRE has been one of the leaders in the fight against corruption. But in my opinion, we will actually create a very favourable ground for corruption if we lose the public on the list of political parties. After all, it will be easier to do all sorts of things over and over again if it is not publicly observable, what is one decision of public authority and who is really behind it. So I admit, and as Mr Puustusmaa has indeed pointed out, I certainly do not claim that there have been no such cases of discrimination, certainly there have been cases, but if we put these problems and those cases, when someone has been affected by it, and those cases that we may have avoided thanks to this disclosure, these possible cases of corruption, I think the weight is very different. They're very different. And that's why maybe it's appropriate to consider and look for relief mechanisms. One [option] is still to consider that these queries could be personalized using an ID card or mobile ID so that they leave a trail behind. Later, in certain disputes, whether in court or in the Labour Dispute Committee, these traces would be usable and [all] might be better identified. After all, we cannot just complain, perhaps the Commissioner for Gender Equality and Equal Treatment does not have enough of these tools today. I think that if these queries were personalized and known who was doing these queries, that would make a lot of difference.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U231	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U232	Thank you very much. Okay, Thomas, let's get this equality commissioner straight. Well, I guess everyone sees things according to their own level of corruption, and since you, Thomas, have never been interested in who is under you and what political content, you do not see it as a threat. But in fact, we know that this is a very common fact in our society, unfortunately, and people are also unable to identify it well, because it is also a well-hidden thing. And if we now take the Commissioner for Equality, he has a stand-alone approach, in the same answer he did, he sees that the problem is not that someone is being discriminated against for being in politics, he sees the problem first and foremost when someone comes out of politics. And his words are that, unfortunately, there are a number of cases where returning from active policies to ordinary life leads to unjustified less favourable treatment, to the exclusion of some jobs, and thus to discrimination against people. So he has a different direction, and that is one of the reasons why the EKRE's attitude on this issue is skeptical.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U233	Thank you, dear questioner. Indeed, as I said, I do not dare deny that there has been no similar discrimination due to political affiliation. I won't deny it. But once again, I say it's very appropriate to consider what's on the other side of its weight. How many cases of corruption maybe we have prevented the list of political party members from being public. I think there are dozens of times more of them than there are cases where, indeed, we are forced to admit that there has been discrimination because of political views or political affiliation. However, another is that, unlike the NGOs, in the case of political parties, as I have said many times, it is still the aim, the ultimate goal, the exercise of public authority. And in that case, I think, there is no reason to be ashamed of these party views, and there is no reason to be ashamed of party membership. I think it's a normal sign of a democratic society. The party should not actually become a secret organization. Somewhere, such a piece of words has been written in this material as someone's opinion. So I agree with that precisely because, after all, the main objective of political parties is to exercise public authority either at national level or at local government level, and there, however, this transparency and disclosure is an integral part of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U234	Thank you very much. No further questions, we can open negotiations. Mart Helme, EKRE, has expressed his wish to speak. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U235	President-in-Office of the Council. Colleagues! Well, we have heard fairy tales here, especially from the Commission's waitress, about how it is necessary for all people to be naked, undressed and presented to the public in a natural or natural name to exercise public authority. Well, that's not it. We have seen very many negative aspects of this public record. We have seen in recent elections, but also in previous elections, how because the lists of political parties are public, the deep state, along with its journalistic minions, exposes criminals, bandits, villains, women-beaters, man-killers, etc. of all political parties. In most cases, in the absolute majority of cases, the sins committed by these people are either quite mild traffic offences or some of these, for almost all people, from time to time, small compasses, or have long been the subject of penalties. And the punishment they suffered should free them from the fact that society continues to reveal them, mocks them, crucifies them, accuses them. But we've got it. And it's because the lists are public, where you can find all the Spruce, Oaks, Birch and other trees, animals, Ilves, Nugis, or you can go upstairs and tell us that you see what kind of villains we're dragging into public power. What a bunch of bastards! They have once, 20 years ago, perhaps been able to drive a young drunken head or something that's a quarter hundred years, 30 years, but maybe even sometimes more than a year ago, but see, we're still pointing the finger. And also the Reform Party, the Centre Party, the Sods, the Fatherland, all of them have gone through this gauntlet in the form of humiliation and exposure of their members. I'm sure that's one side of the story. The other aspect of the matter is that it is absolutely demagogic to claim that, in the event of non-disclosure of their membership, political parties try to hide their ambitions in the pursuit of public authority. All political parties put their lists out in full public at the elections. These are lists of people who are running for office. And these people really have turned themselves in to public exposure. But not those who are simple members who do not aspire to power and who simply, in a world-view, support their political party and vote for the candidates of their party. And it doesn't make sense to drag these people into political mud pudding. This is a disparate society, which has happened in Estonia. And it has happened, as I pointed out in my question, thanks to the Liberals. The basis for Estonia's success has been that Estonia has been a homogeneous society. Today, Estonia is a tribal society, a clanned society, based on political views. You son of a bitch don't share liberal base consensus values, we don't play with you, we don't let you in our sandbox! We crucify you, we embarrass you, we buy journalists, we plant compromising materials on them. You're no good for Estonia! Be unvaccinated or be sympathetic to Trump or have you met Marine Le Pen. These values do not fit into Estonian society. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U236	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U237	Then what is it? You're a Kremlin henchman! The Centre Party was here for 20 years as a Kremlin henchman, but right now it suits you. You see, the values kind of began to overlap nicely. EKRE doesn't fit. EKRE is now a Kremlin henchman. But I'll tell you something you don't like at all. Even if it was me, Mart Helme, I would be Putin's worshiper, I would kiss his picture every night before going to bed, I would be right. You guys are always talking here about a democratic society... In a democratic society, I can kiss Trump's picture, Marine Le Pen's picture, and Putin's picture. And it's nobody's business. I can do that. It's none of your business! And you can't say, "Your values don't suit me. " I say to you that your values do not suit me. So what do we do? We go all the time, fist in our pockets, and let's say you belong to the EKRE, and you don't suit us, you belong to the Reform Party, and you don't suit us. This is what has taken place over the last about a decade: the division of society on the basis of some so-called values. And since this division of society does not come from the national side, but from the liberal side, it is necessary to save the national side from defamation, accusation and discrimination against liberals. Of course, I did not fully understand what the Commissioner for Equality has to do with this. The Non-Discrimination Ombudsman is an artificial institution created by the liberal base consensus forces, which is not really concerned with ensuring equality, but rather with the introduction of ideological steps in Estonian society based on liberal base consensus, which has not found a very deep understanding in Estonian society, because we are quite much traditional and patriarchal [Society], not in this sense of men's supremacy, but in terms of respect for traditions, observance of traditions and valuing the stability and pillar of society. That's it. And it will be destroyed by an institution imported from Europe to us. It breaks it, not making society more coherent, but once again polarising, hostile, between right and wrong. So we have no illusions. We have just seen a part of the will of the Riigikogu passed through the Riigikogu in violation of its domestic and operational procedures. Well, what the hell. He who sowes the wind will reap the storm. I say to you, He that soweth the wind will reap the storm. But now we have no illusions that you will vote it down. Vote! But we have drawn your attention to the fact that we are fighting an attack, you are fighting a retreat.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U238	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U239	And we point to you now: He that soweth the wind will reap the storm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U240	Toomas Kivimägi, line, I understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U241	Thank you, Mr President. However, I dare say no to a colleague of only one small reply. Publicity, especially in this hall, but also outside this hall, does not mean undressing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U242	Got it. I don't see any more requests. I can close the negotiations. It is now the case that the lead committee has proposed to reject the draft 416 at first reading and we must vote on it. I'll make a hall call. Ladies and gentlemen, I will put to the vote the draft proposal of the lead committee to reject it at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U243	The proposal was supported by 48 delegates and 16 against. The proposal has been accepted. The draft will fall out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U244	Let's go to the third item on today's agenda. To this end, the Government of the Republic has initiated a draft law amending the law implementing the common agricultural policy of the European Union 439. This is a first reading and the rapporteur is Urmas Kruuse, Minister for Rural Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U245	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good listeners! You have before you the draft law amending the law implementing the common agricultural policy of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U246	Please, let's keep the hall down! Yeah, go on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U247	Thank you. This time, the changes have two main objectives. First, to establish the legal basis for the implementation of the new support scheme for the Estonian Rural Development Plan 2014 to 2020 for the knowledge transfer and information measure and, second, to postpone by two years some of the deadlines related to the implementation of the same rural development plan measures. First of all, I would like to talk about the changes to the support scheme for the development of the follow-up of advisors. This is a new support scheme that has recently been included in the development plan. Its aim is to support the training of those who do not yet act as agricultural advisors. This is to bring new competent advisors to the sector. Under the amendment, the beneficiary will select the PRIA on the basis and in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Public Procurement Act and the Minister for Rural Affairs will be empowered to lay down more precise requirements and criteria for the selection of the grant for applicants, beneficiaries and supported activities for the follow-up training programme of advisors. The amendment also gives the Minister for Rural Affairs the right to lay down the requirements for these training programmes by means of his own decree. These additional provisions are not fundamentally new. According to § 71 on the selection of providers of advisory and training services and other knowledge transfer services, PRIA is also the voter of the long-term knowledge transfer programmes for current advisors. Pursuant to § 71 of the current Act, the Minister of Rural Affairs has the right to lay down, by decree and/or regulation, the requirements for the training scheme of the consultants operating and the various knowledge transfer programmes and, of course, all this under the rural development plan. The next important part of this draft relates to deadlines for the implementation of the RDP 2014-2020 measures. In this respect, I will explain that these changes are important because this period is coming to an end, but we are still talking about the development plan until 2020. And the reason for this is that the negotiations on the new multiannual budget of the European Union, as well as the reform of the European Union's common agricultural policy, lasted much longer than planned and that the agreement on the budget was only reached last year. However, it was only this summer that agreement was reached on agricultural policy. All this meant that all activities related to the implementation of the new common agricultural policy were delayed and a "transitional period" of two years: 2021 and 2022 was introduced. This means that the deadlines for their implementation will also be postponed by two years. And in order for these rules to be established, it is important that these amendments to the law be made. One such provision is the right to allocate potentially unused LEADER project grants, i.e. their budgetary resources. This actually means that if it turns out that part of the funds will not be used at the end of the period, it is important that the Minister has the opportunity to re-distribute them and not out of the system, or between other measures, but within the same LEADER project, so that these funds can certainly be used. True, to this day, the Minister has not had to take this opportunity, because so-called implementation groups have managed very well on their own. However, this amendment also extends the deadline by two years, i.e. until 1 July 2025. And the provisions of the third block relate to the deadlines for the use of the RDP instrument, i.e. the resources to be recovered from the financial instrument, which are also extended by two years. In addition, the draft introduces some further technical changes. In one case, the reference to the invalid European Union Spirit Drinks Regulation contained in the Act shall be replaced by a reference to the relevant existing European Union Regulation. In the second case, the date currently included in the Act will be replaced by the date for the annual aggregation of the indicators for the economic calculation of agriculture. This is dealt with by the Ministry of Rural Affairs and Statistics and is governed by the wording referred to in the European Union Regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U248	Thank you very much. Questions too. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U249	Good manager! Good minister! First of all, this bill is unfortunately written in a language of birds with all these countless regulations and numbers. Pure bird language, very hard to understand for a normal person. But here's the question. In some areas, more counselors are needed, I understand. My question is what areas these are and how many are there. But the third question: in the meantime, the managers of the MES were taken to the plate because of the use of the money that was not useful. When will the new leaders come to the MES, who will use this money in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U250	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. It is difficult for me to comment on the term 'vite to plate' because, in this case, there is only suspicion and the investigation is ongoing. As for the new leaders, the competition has been announced. To this end, the Council has given the mandate and is currently being dealt with. The Council's decision - if I really refer it correctly - meant that we definitely want to be a new leader by the beginning of next year. Currently, the Head of the Advisory Services has been appointed as a member of the Management Board, who, along with the team and together with the Supervisory Board, organises these activities. And according to my knowledge, none of the activities concerning the view of companies or customers have stopped. But it's also certain that he needs a new leader. And [the events] also meant that because of this, the Council had called back the members of your board.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U251	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U252	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, This draft explanatory memorandum states, of course, that there have been no problems with the use of the budget resources for LEADER project support so far, but we will extend these deadlines just in case. My question arises from the fact that, with what amount, it is [the case]. There must be some kind of identity, otherwise it wouldn't make sense to change the law. What amount could this be, what is the redeployment proposed in the LEADER measure? Maybe we could get a little bit more specific about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U253	Thank you, Honourable Asker. In fact, regardless of whether we should re-distribute EUR 1000 or EUR 1 million, this extension is necessary precisely because a transitional period was introduced and, during the transitional period, i.e. 2021 and 2022, it is [intended] to mobilise the new period of money, but as measures, i.e. as a methodology, and the regulations deal with the possibilities of the old period. It is therefore also necessary to extend the possibility for the Minister to do so specifically in the case of LEADER. What you read in the explanatory memorandum referred to an existing period in which we did not need to introduce [amendment]. There is currently a transitional period. However, in order to bring [regulation] very clearly into line with obligations and opportunities, it is certainly essential. This may mean that if the LEADER project organisations are able to make effective use of this money, we do not have to use it. But unless they do, the Minister will not be able to implement these sums. Now we do not have to give up these funds, and that is actually the basic content of why it needs to be extended. This concerned a number of regulations where we have actually changed these principles precisely because the negotiations lasted for so long and given the possibility of a transitional period. After all, we had more than 300 million of this money available for this transitional year, together with public funding. But as far as LEADER is concerned, this whole project is worth around 80 million, and in the new period it will be a little more. So that's the main purpose of why we're doing this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U254	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U255	Thank you, Minister. I can't stop asking. We were talking about the follow-up of advisors and the PRIA and the Minister. I know that after-growth occurs when the landscape has stability that has not yet existed. But my question is this: where do the criteria for awarding an invitation to a training programme come from? Is that what we know? Will the award of the invitation be maintained and will the award of the invitation be financed?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U256	Thank you. As for the so-called amendment, the honourable questioner, through the right granted to the Minister for Rural Affairs, he can, by means of his decree, lay down the requirements for training programmes. And these requirements are for example for those who can participate there, as well as requirements for lecturers, guides, mentors. It's a text written by the minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U257	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U258	Good manager and minister! First of all, you forgot to answer my main questions about what advisors are missing, what areas and how many more will come. But last time, I think it was 2015 when the MES got 8.2 million. And now I read here that the amount that the Estonian state is going to pay is 5622743 euros and 20 cents. Are you seriously writing this? It's already going to be 20 cents worth of money.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U259	I do not write it seriously, but those people who are responsible for the use of certain financial resources in the Republic of Estonia, including euro money, have this overview upstairs and I assume, honourable questioner, that these numbers have been given very precisely. If any programs are agreed, I'm sure it's known. And the advisory service, by its very nature, is very important in the common European agricultural policy. Research funding will also increase in this new period and the AKIS system will start again. So in any case, we hope that the different opportunities for better knowledge and better training will help our agricultural sector to meet the new challenge. When you asked what these new areas could be, the explanatory memorandum to the draft also refers to the fact that we actually want to expand this so-called base. We want to train people to be able to enter this system. When I meet various generations of entrepreneurs in the agricultural sector, it actually turns out that there is a great deal of lack of practically business-plan training, business-plan advice. We have different trainers who can and will be very high on agrotechnic topics, but this is one whole complex, including new topics, including, for example, the Farm plate project, dealing with emissions. These are the reasons why there is a real need for new and broader knowledge in this area, which, objectively, was not very necessary in the earlier period. We all know what the challenges were before. All of this requires that our training base and the knowledge of our trainers become wider and that is why new people need to be involved.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U260	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U261	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, Indeed, the explanatory memorandum also states that EUR 6 million are planned for training programmes. And a little bit of the answer to my question was given by your previous answer to [about] what Mr Ernits asked. But I still have an interest in what this main focus is. It says here that writing a business plan is this. Is this the biggest bottleneck we have for trainers? Do we even have a mapping of these bottlenecks? I'd still like to get a little more insight into that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U262	Thank you. If we rely on a survey by the University of Life Sciences on Estonia's ability to manage farms since 2015, one of the things that worries us there is that when we look at the ability of companies to earn their own income, the average is that the benefits exceed the income that the company itself is able to earn. This might indicate [the question] whether the company's strategy focuses on whether the business line is fully thought out, whether it should change anything. These are all very important skills and knowledge. Now, if you ask me what's new in there. However, the same theme that, if it is agreed to deal with CO2 emissions, and if it were to be brought to the level of companies, a share of entrepreneurs have already said that they intend to reduce it by, for example, a year of x, regardless of what is happening in Europe or globally in a broader sense, it all needs new skills and knowledge and also the ability to work with scientists.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U263	Thank you. No further questions. Let's go to the co-report. Ivari Padar, representative of the Committee on Rural Affairs, please! There are six minutes left [in session].
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U264	Thank you! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was discussed in the Committee on Rural Affairs on 19 October and was presented by Mr Olavi Petron by the Ministry of Rural Affairs. He explained that the implementation of the new period of the European Union's common agricultural policy had been delayed for two years, and this led to the drafting of this draft. As has been said here, in addition to what is a substantive point concerning the advisory service, the remaining points actually concern all the deferrals, which have also taken place relatively systematically at the beginning of previous periods of the European Union. Ove Põder gave an overview of the changes in substance. Merry Aart noted that the previous reviews referred to the Public Procurement Act and asked how it would be ensured and what the competence of the Office for Agricultural Registers and Information would be to carry out a public procurement which would provide additional added value. Ove Põder explained that this could be regulated through the powers conferred on the Minister. Helir-Valdor Seeder asked whether the amendment to § 66 to the terms of reference given to the Minister was one-off and concerns only 2023, or whether it was a permanent mandate, and whether it should not be the authority of the Government. Ove Põder replied that the specific change was a one-off one and had in mind the reallocation of unused funds at the end of the current period. It is hoped that the Minister does not need to exercise this right. There was no need for this at the end of 2020, as LEADER groups took advantage of the funds, as the Minister stated in his reply. Helir-Valdor Seeder asked whether, at the end of 2020, the right to reallocate funds was also granted to the Minister and perhaps it should be the authority of the Government, as the RDP funds are decided by the Government. Ove Põder replied that the specific provision was also addressed to the Minister. The amendment to this paragraph consisted of a change in deadlines. And Olavi Petron added that the additional resources were distributed between the groups according to an earlier methodology. Helir Helir-Valdor Seeder thought that it would be reasonable to include such a power, unilaterally conferred on the minister at the end of the period, in the law. Olavi Petron replied that the Ministry had proposed this and extended this existing scheme. Tarmo Tamm asked to clarify whether the existing scheme works today and only the dates are delayed because the period was prolonged. Ove Moose confirmed it. It was decided to appoint Mr Ivari Padar, member of the Committee on Rural Affairs, as the representative of this draft, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda. a by 9 November and propose that the first reading be completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-09_U265	Thank you very much. I don't see any questions. In this case, it can also be read from this panel that the commission has proposed draft 439... Oh, I'm sorry! Negotiation. Do you want to negotiate? No, it's not. The negotiations are closed. The lead committee has proposed that the first reading of draft 439 be terminated. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including on 23 November at 5.15 p.m. The third item on today's agenda has been discussed. We actually have a fourth point left, but we can't really start discussing it, so I'm taking a three-minute break. The sitting is adjourned.
